ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u1	Resume session. High Izbo! Welcome to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] Hello the President of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beata Szydło and the members of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] I welcome the members of the diplomatic corps who have come to hear the information of the Foreign Minister. [[Applause]] I would like to call Arthur Sobonia, Piotr Łukasz Babiarz, Piotr Olszówka and Sylwester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members of Artur Soboń and Piotr Łukasz Babiarz will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Artur Soboń and Sylvester Tulaev. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 9.45, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Economics and Development together with the Committee on Public Finance - h.m. 13, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13.30, - Legal notice - hour. 13.30, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 13.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 16.15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Language Team Esperanto - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: diabetes mellitus - hour 13, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government - hour. 18, - Parliamentary Group for: organic farming - hour 19.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u3	Thank you, sir. We proceed to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Information of the Foreign Minister on the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2017. Please take the floor of the Foreign Minister, Mr Witold Waszczykowski, in order to present the information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u4	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Fellow Ministers! High Izbo! Excellency! Ambassadores! Ladies and gentlemen! When I presented the government's information about the tasks of Polish foreign policy for the first time a year ago as Minister of Foreign Affairs, there was no lack of concern in my speech, pessimistic assessments of the international environment. I was talking about three crises which Poland must face: the security crisis, the crisis of the neighbourhood and the crisis of the European project. It was a good diagnosis. These three issues were at the heart of European policy in Europe in 2016, creating an extremely complex and unfavorable situation for Polish interests. In these difficult conditions, however, Polish diplomacy passed the exam perfectly, we fully accomplished the tasks put before the government a year ago. After 12 months, we can safely say that Poland has become more secure. The policy of the nearest neighbourhood, including Eastern Europe, has also taken on positive dynamics. In the Union itself, in the debate on the future of the European project, our voice is heard and our arguments are taken into account. We could see that during the last visit of Chancellor Angela Merkel in Warsaw. Polish foreign policy has also changed its nature. We have restored its subjectivity and the right hierarchy of priorities, taking the broad interests of our country as a starting point. It is to them that we have devoted a lot of attention and action. Instead of standing on the sidelines and rooting for the main players, we ourselves entered the international game on the international arena. Turns out we can develop tactics... [[Soccer games aren't everything.]] ...to make arguments and convince them to be right. We can withstand the first wave of resentment, attacks, even assaults, build coalitions and win. [[Great Britain.]] This was the case with regard to the missile shield, the presence of NATO-Wskie troops in Poland and the problem of migration. But I want to be well understood. The subjective treatment of Polish interests does not exclude concern for the future of a united Europe, for the security of its borders, for the stability of the European neighbourhood, and finally for strong and strong transatlantic relations. There is no contradiction between these goals. Our foreign policy is a citizen's policy. The point of this formulation is to recognise the aspirations and needs of Polish citizens in a foreign dimension. The strength of our foreign policy lies in our social mandate. In international matters, as in national cases, we have set out the objectives for which our citizens care and we are defending them. In order to achieve the goals of Polish foreign policy, we make effective use of bilateral cooperation mechanisms. Would our voice in NATO be equally audible without the close relations we have with the United States and Great Britain? Would the development of our economy be stable without Germany's great economic partner? Would we have a greater impact on European issues without active and dynamic regional policy? In no case would this be possible without our allies both in Europe and on the other side of the Atlantic. In the 21st century, security is becoming the common good of all mankind. The effects of crises even in the outermost regions are rapidly known in Europe, at the borders of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, Poland is involved in security initiatives not only of our country or of the region, but also of Europe and the world. This is why we are present in NATO-EU and EU missions in Afghanistan, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Our soldiers serve as part of the global anti-terrorist coalition. Polish policy is jointly and severally responsible. International stability and mutually beneficial relations with other countries are fundamental conditions for international economic activity. The support of Polish entrepreneurs belongs to the priorities of Polish diplomacy. Gentlemen today, but also ladies - I had the opportunity recently to listen to the debate between Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Chancellor Angela Merkel - talk about money and devote much more time to it than golfing. It is with the aim of expanding Polish companies that we strengthen and expand our diplomatic presence in the world. We try to be present also in these parts of the world, where memory and love for the family country is present in the hearts and minds of the Polish people and Poles abroad. We build partnerships with them, support Polish education and teaching Polish language. When necessary, we defend their civil rights. Polonia is and will remain part of our collective consciousness. [[Voice from the room: Doubtful.]] We are still too often dealing with cases of intentional or unintended deception of facts from the history of Poland, especially cases of presenting victims of World War II as perpetrators or accomplices. We will strive to put an end to the lies and historical manipulations and the atmosphere of their consent. There would be no success of Polish foreign policy if not for harmonious cooperation between different state institutions. Therefore, from this point of view, I would like to express my thanks to the President, the Prime Minister and the Ministers for their assistance and support. High Izbo! Last year brought decisions beneficial for the international security of Poland. The July NATO summit in Warsaw decided to strengthen the eastern flank militaryly. The Alliance has thus confirmed its readiness to fulfil its core mission, collective defence, also in our region. These decisions represent a real strengthening of Poland's security. Our boundaries are safe, we don't have to put fences on them. However, we have set up warning signs with the inscription "Attention!" The territory of the Republic of Poland. Thousands of soldiers from the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Canada along with modern military equipment will support the defence efforts of Poland and the Baltic States in the event of a possible threat. In mid-January this year, the first U.S. troops reached our country. Allied obligations under Article. The 5th Washington Treaty is thus gaining credibility. NATO and the European Union have decided to step up their cooperation. The declaration signed in July Ub became the expression of the will to cooperate. R. here, in Warsaw. Polish diplomacy has made an important contribution to building bridges between these organisations. An example of this is the conference organized from the Polish initiative in November ub. in Brussels, with the participation of Vice-President Federica Mogherini and myself and my recent participation in the panel on European security during the World Economic Forum in Davos, together with Federica Mogherini and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. Polish diplomacy took an active part in all discussions concerning not only the Euro-Atlantic security but also the future of the European Union. Despite initial doubts, the Polish vote on the migration crisis and the need for reform of the Union has been recognised and recognised by our partners. In response to the United Kingdom's intention to leave the European Union, we have taken successful action to maintain enhanced cooperation with this country. Relations with Germany were extremely intense, as demonstrated by five meetings of presidents, three meetings of heads of government and my constant contact with a German colleague. We have revived relations with our closest partners in the region - within the Visegrad Group, with the Baltic and Nordic countries. We started an intensive dialogue with countries located between the Baltic Sea, the Black Sea and the Adriatic Sea. Organized in August Ub. On the initiative of the presidents of Poland and Croatia, the summit of the Tri-marine states in Dubrovnik showed significant political and economic potential of the entire region. A similar sound was given by the November meeting of Foreign Ministers of the Central, South-Eastern and Balkans countries in Warsaw with the participation of Federica Mogherini. Poland has made an important contribution to the development of EU migration policy, as reflected in the decisions of the informal EU summit in Bratislava, as well as in shaping our energy reality in our part of Europe. The stabilisation of our neighbourhood and, more broadly, the European neighbourhood is a key task for Poland. Hence, among others. results in our activity in relations with Ukraine and Belarus, but also in relations with the countries of the Middle East and decisions on military engagement in the region. In order to maintain the balance between the various elements of foreign policy, Poland has made a profound return in its non-European policy, opening strongly to cooperation with countries of Asia, Africa, the Middle East. From this point of view, the visit of the President of Poland to China and the President of the People's Republic of China in Poland was of considerable practical importance, especially in economic terms. Finally, it is important to mention the international success, which, regardless of the spiritual and religious dimension, has become the World Youth Days in Cracow with the participation of the Holy Father Francis. High Seym! The year 2017 will be largely marked by the same challenges we faced last year, although slightly different accents will spread. We will also have to take into account the new trends that have emerged recently. What is causing much discussion today, but also uncertainty, is the future of international order on a global scale. In 2016, there were voices saying that after decades the post-war era ended, at the threshold of which the creators of the United Nations Charter promised to protect future generations from the disasters of war and restore faith in fundamental human rights, equality between nations, big and small. Are we really facing dramatic, inevitable changes in international order? It is true that since 1945 much has changed in the global system of forces. The Cold War has passed, communism has fallen, decolonization has taken place, deep demographic and economic changes have taken place on all continents, and yet societies are still attached to the idea of sovereignty, territorial integrity, the integrity of borders, respect for human rights. What differs today from the past decades is the desire of some countries to undermine this order, to weaken the international order based on these universal principles. [[Look, Kaczyński.]] This challenge can be permanent if it does not meet the reaction of the international community. For Poland, for the whole of our region, severely affected by the ruthless twentieth century, respect by all, by all states, the values and fundamental principles of international law contained in the United Nations Charter is fundamental. For this reason, we will continue our efforts to ensure that as early as June 2017. Poland has been selected as a member of the UN Security Council, which is the only body of a global nature whose decisions are universally binding and the international community has the right and responsibility to respond to the protection of world peace and security. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have seen once again that defence of principles and values can only be effective if supported by force, not only by moral force, but also by military force, by force of alliances. This is our safety umbrella. We're strengthening its construction to withstand the worst rains. Therefore, as in the past year, security policy will be a top priority of Polish foreign policy. We are concerned about the aggressive policies of the Russian Federation in Eastern Europe. In Ukraine, the war conflict has already been fueled by Ukraine for the third year. It is a conflict that involves two of our neighbours, creating for Poland a number of real challenges and threats. Russia's expectations were particularly high in October 2016. On the occasion of Russia's decision to withdraw from the US platoon disposal agreement, we could learn about Russia's ambitions for Eastern and Central Europe, such as the actual withdrawal of NATO from the whole region, transforming a dozen countries inhabited by tens of millions of people into a grey zone doomed to instability and uncertainty. Poland will not accept such a vision of political order in Europe, it will not agree to divide our continent into zones of influence. No more Munich and Yalta. [[Applause]] Russian political action is accompanied by concrete military action. We are concerned about the expansion of the Western Military District, which has been enriched by three new divisions in 2016. Further militarisation of the royal circuit is underway, including the deployment of new weapons. medium-range missiles capable of carrying nuclear charges. The clear task of Polish foreign policy under these conditions is to fully implement the decisions of the NATO summit in Warsaw, as well as previous agreements with Newport. This will be the centre of our interest and activity in 2017. In this respect, we are also preparing for the NATO Summit in Brussels this year. In practical terms, it is crucial to establish the advanced presence of the military Alliance in the East in the form of four battalion battle groups in Poland and in the Baltic States. These actions have already begun. The US armed forces are becoming an increasingly important security factor for Central Europe. In 2017, we will maintain efforts to increase their presence in Poland. They will include the construction of an anti-missile base in Redzików, the organization of exercises involving an armored brigade, which is coming to Poland as well as sub-groups of American air forces stationed in Łask and Powid. British soldiers will be welcomed to our country in April this year. In a situation of direct threat to an armed incident in our country, even a dozen thousand soldiers of allies may appear as a result of recent decisions. We think about the security of the Republic of Poland and Europe in transatlantic terms. For us, strengthening the cooperation of Americans and Europeans in the field of security remains a priority. Political leadership and military engagement of the United States is essential to preserve NATO's credibility and coherence. The moment after that is special due to changes in American politics. There have been a lot of misunderstandings and speculation in this context. There were voices of doubting the credibility of the United States as a pillar of the North Atlantic Alliance and a strategic ally of Poland. The Government of the Republic of Poland is paying close attention to the process of crystallising the foreign policy of the administration of President Donald Trump. After my recent discussions with his close advisors, I am convinced that the successful cooperation with the United States will continue. Cooperation with Canada will also continue. The commitment of this country to security in our region, the presence of Canadian soldiers on the eastern flank deserve our high recognition. The strength of the Alliance stems from unity and solidarity and from faithfulness to the values that unite our civilization. These qualities will be taken into consideration in the pursuit of the security of our ally territory and the stability of our neighbourhood. The most important instrument in this respect is cooperation with partner countries, among others. Ukraine, Georgia, Finland, Sweden. This year we will welcome you to the full members of the Montenegro Alliance. This is confirmed by NATO's continued readiness to join its group of countries which have a similar understanding of European security and share the same values. We hope this will not be the final stage of the Alliance's expansion. The consistent attitude of the Republic of Poland has made us perceived as a country interested not only in its own security, but also in the safety of others. Our allies see us as a member of the team game, which is to ensure the security of the entire region. In this spirit, we are working to strengthen the Eastern Alliance flank not only in the Baltic Sea region but also in the Black Sea basin. Regular consultation and consolidation of positions so called The nine of Bucharest already translate into a measurable strengthening of the security of our entire area between the Baltic, the Adriatic and the Black Sea. Our allied credibility is also determined by the development of national defence capabilities. Poland is a model for other Member States as a country that takes security seriously. With full responsibility we approach NATO's recommended ceiling for defence expenditure of 2% GDP with a minimum of 20% This expenditure shall be used for modernisation. Among allies, a similar approach should be a rule, not an exception. We want to maintain the effectiveness of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe - the OSCE. However, whether and to what extent this will happen depends on the goodwill of all participants in this dialogue. It doesn't always happen. I am thinking, above all, of the perverse approach of our largest eastern neighbour to peace and stability. However, I am convinced that the OSCE can serve as a platform for a return to a predictable, safe European security environment. Poland remains open to dialogue for this purpose. At this point, it is worth noting the discussions conducted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the OSCE on the status of this organisation in Poland. This is particularly important in connection with the location in Warsaw of the largest OSCE institution, i.e. Offices of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights - ODIHR. We hope to conclude negotiations on this issue in the first half of this year. High Izbo! Changes in the European security environment require new, far-sighted solutions. This is particularly true of the cooperation I have already mentioned between NATO and the European Union, which, based on the principles of complementarity, should focus on the development of civil-military capabilities. We will support maximum deepening of this cooperation, in particular as regards combating terrorism, hybrid threats, strengthening the resilience of partner countries, cybersecurity and joint exercises. This concept is also part of NATO's support for the Union's operations in the Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea in connection with the migration crisis. The challenges of both the East and the South have contributed to deepening cooperation within the framework of the EU's common security and defence policy. Poland participates in actions to strengthen this policy, including: with regard to the proposed permanent planning and command structure of the European Union missions, strengthening military and civilian capabilities, and increasing the use of the Union's rapid response forces, i.e. European combat groups. Another step towards a common security and defence policy could be the creation of a European Border Guard. In response to this, negotiations were concluded at the end of January and an agreement was initialled on the status of Frontex and its staff. Warsaw is and will remain the seat of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency. Let us also remember that, in line with the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Union has the possibility of permanent structural cooperation within the framework of the so-called. PESCO for the most demanding operations. For several years we have witnessed a dramatic situation south of Europe. The weakness of state institutions in some countries of North Africa and the Middle East creates a vacuum filled by non-state actors, including terrorist organisations aimed at destroying the Western world. Russian civil society's policy against the Syrian conflict raises concern. We remain more vigilant than ever before about the terrorist threat. Poland is not among the countries most at risk of attacks, but at the hands of Al-Qaeda and Daesh our citizens have been killed many times. Moreover, the attacks against Germany, France, Belgium, Turkey have hit our allies. Thus, they were also aimed at the Republic. We will not be safe both as a state and as citizens until we put an end to terror. Our response will be to continue our commitment to the anti-terrorist coalition. At the moment, several hundred soldiers, military workers, civilian experts are serving in the framework of the coalition in Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, Jordan, and the ship Kontradmiral Czernicki is carrying out tasks as part of the NATO mission in the Mediterranean, the Black Sea and the Aegean Sea. Poland will maintain its commitment to NATO and European Union operations. Our current participation in two NATO missions and ten EU missions is a valuable experience, but also a reason for deserved pride for our soldiers, military workers and civilian experts. We are also in the process of returning to the United Nations peacekeeping missions. High Seym! The most difficult challenge we will face in 2017 will be the future of the European Union, which is in an extremely difficult position. This was due to many reasons, but above all to the hasty, non-reality initiative, which was based on ideological motives and not on the welfare of the Union's societies. There is a gap between European elites and citizens losing the sense that they have a real impact on what is happening to their countries and the integration project. For this reason, societies issue negative censorships to their elites, for which this should be a call to restore relations with citizens, not to question these bad assessments. The lack of mechanisms to correct European policy in accordance with democratic principles has led to a situation where more and more Europeans are willing to question the European project in general. This is clearly seen in elections and referendums, as well as in public opinion polls. An unprecedented event and a turning point in the history of the Union has become the British referendum on membership of the European Union. It denied the general belief that the integration process was irreversible. At the same time, in many other Member States, eurosceptic voices, both on the right and on the left, which question the legitimacy of a united Europe have ceased to be a marginal phenomenon. I would like to say with emphasis here: the priority of our government's action is to fix the European Union and not to dismantle it. Returning to Europe of national selfishness would be as damaging as integration utopia not rooted in the social and political realities of our continent. The renovation of the European Union, which we are calling for, must not consist in renewing the facade and discussing decorative details, but in an in-depth assessment of the state of the foundations on which the whole construction of the European structure is based. We do not rule out that the foundation of four freedoms will have to build a new Union on the basis of a new European Treaty. [[Yeah, yeah, it's brand-new.]] [[How about on the new foundations right away?]] This year we will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome, which have started today's European Union. This will be an opportunity to summarize the achievements, but also to reflect on the future of the integration project. In view of the scale of today's challenges, it is time to have a rational debate and seek common solutions. I believe that a new political compromise on the future of the Union is possible. Poland will co-create new solutions for both our national interests and the wider European interest. I believe that these efforts will be effective because I am a peer of the treaties and I would like to celebrate these two anniversaries in a good mood. [[You were born in Rome?]] [[Great Britain...]] It is in the interests of Poland and Europe that we have a strong and competitive Union, and we therefore want to strengthen the single market, which promotes the unity and cohesion of the European Union. We consider it a priority to make full use of this potential in the services and goods sector, to promote entrepreneurship and to improve the competitiveness of European industry. We oppose protectionist practices, creating new barriers, especially with regard to the freedom of movement of persons. Their manifestation is, among other things, one of them. changes to the Posting of Workers legislation and the lack of freedom to provide services that a united Europe started to implement in 1977, or 40 years ago. We want to adapt the Single Market to the challenges of the so-called. The fourth industrial revolution. The Union must become an area where, apart from the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, the free movement of data will be ensured. This will open up new opportunities for entrepreneurs to develop. Poland will endeavour to ensure that the benefits of the digital single market are spread as evenly as possible throughout the European Union. 2017 will be important in view of the development of the multiannual financial framework after 2020. We will be actively involved in this process in order to safeguard our interests, including with regard to cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. They have a very strong impact on the debate on the future of the European Union in the negotiations with the United Kingdom on the exit of this country from the European Union. We respect the democratic choice of British citizens. We believe that negotiations should be of a substantive, emotional nature and focus on future relations between the Union and the United Kingdom. We want them to be close, but based on the balance of rights and obligations. The result should not encourage further disintegration of the Union. It will be a priority for us to protect the rights acquired by Polish citizens living in the Islands. They should be guaranteed regardless of the length of stay in the United Kingdom. We will strive hard to take Polish interests into account also in the discussion on the shape of the European Union after Brexit. This should primarily be a discussion of the necessary changes in the practice of the European Union in response to the tensions in the European construction that have emerged in connection with the British referendum. We believe that it is also necessary to restore the central place of the Member States in the Union. EU action should focus on creating the basis for economic growth, citizens' security and tackling migration challenges. Brexit will also be confronted with the challenges of the departure of one of the main net contributors to the budget, a country like us not belonging to the euro area. In the face of the migration crisis, we are convinced that the exit from the current problems should be sought not in the forced relocation of immigrants, not in the forced resettlement, but in the settlement of problems at their place of origin and in the more effective protection of the Union's external borders. The river of immigrants sailing to western Europe will not change its course as a result of EU directives. The idea of effective solidarity proposed by the Slovak Presidency gives the chance to build a broad agreement. Poland does not remain idle. In 2016, Polish border guards and policemen supported their colleagues in Macedonia, Bulgaria, Greece, Slovenia and Hungary. Polish humanitarian aid also goes to migrants and refugees in Jordan and Lebanon. This year, we're going to increase this aid significantly. A separate issue is the recognition by some Western European politicians of the Polish contribution to managing the migratory pressure from the East. More than a million people, mostly citizens troubled by the war and economic crisis of Ukraine, reside and work in our country. This huge number shows that Poland's policy in this area is effective, although the goal is achieved in other ways. In this light, it is completely unjustified to attempt to force the consent to relocate refugees by threatening to reduce EU subsidies to Poland and other Central European countries. Energy policy will remain another important element of Polish engagement on European level. The strategic objective is, in particular, to open access to Norwegian gas deposits in the North Sea. In this context, we will implement investment projects to strengthen energy independence, especially the Baltic Pipe pipeline. The same is what we expect from the European Union, where the legal framework and projects must strengthen the security of supply of all Member States and not just the dominant supplier, as is the case with the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Following the common good of all humanity, Poland, like 120 other countries, ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which should reduce the impact of climate anomalies on society's life, also on the conditions prevailing in our part of Europe. At the same time, however, we do not see any basis for the European Union to increase its ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Economic logic and the threat of a negative impact on the competitiveness of the European Union speak against speedy decisions. So we're going to try to get it. favorable for Poland legal solutions regarding previously agreed emission reduction targets. We will also seek to give Member States autonomy in shaping their own energy mix. High Izbo! The active European policy of Poland is also supported by bilateral relations with our partners, as well as regional cooperation. Last year there was an institutional strengthening of relations with Great Britain, which was expressed among others. implementation of the first Polish-British intergovernmental consultations. I know that sometimes there are skeptical voices, whether it is worth investing in relations with a country that is leaving the Union. That's a bad question. It is worth working with a nuclear state, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, and still an active partner in European security policy. It is worth pursuing the interests of more than one million Poles living in the Poles' Islands. The answer is therefore clear: such cooperation is in the strategic interest of the Republic of Poland. We hope that the United Kingdom will remain a close partner of Poland and the Union in actions to stabilise the international environment. We also hope to respect the rights acquired by Poles working and living in the UK, which the head of the Polish government has provided several times, also recently, in the conversation of Mrs Theresa May. We want to maintain close relations with Germany, our main partner in the European Union, a priority economic partner and an important ally within NATO. The measure of good quality of our relations in 2016 was the repeated meetings of politicians and the anniversary of the 25th anniversary. a treaty on good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation with the presidents of both our countries. This dialogue will be extended. At the same time we expect from the other side more openness, understanding for Polish reasons and our right to pursue Polish interests. Poland and Germany, working together and respecting each other, can do a lot of good for Europe's economic and political crisis. We do not forget the German Polonia. We will work to improve its situation, including to ensure adequate access to Polish language learning. We welcome the recent decisions of the Land of Hessen in this matter taken with commitment from our consular services and local Polonia. Poland is interested in best relations with France, based on strong foundations of common values and rich history. We have not only a common history, a love of democracy and a commitment to the European process, but also multi-billion-dollar economic, investment and traditional close contacts between societies. The future of bilateral relations should not be held hostage by a single commercial contract. In relations with both Paris and Berlin, we will propose further steps to make better use of the Weimar Triangle for concerted cooperation between our three countries. The comparison to three musketeers may seem too far gone, but the motto is one for one, all for... [[Voice from the room: One for one.]] ...one for all, all for one... [[Just a fork.]] ... un pour tous, tous pour un, would be perfect for our relationship. Without this cooperation, it is difficult to imagine the future of the European project, since Poland, Germany and France represent 1/3 of the territory of the European Union and more than 1/3 of its population. It also seems natural to engage the Weimar Triangle with the Visegrad Group, i.e. the tightness of such a political buckle of two parts of Europe. It is in our strategic interest that the Tri-Moor, a region located between the Baltic Sea, the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea, should reach the Western European level of civilization development and security comfort as soon as possible. As a result, we are developing different formats of regional cooperation: from the presidents of the 12 countries of the Tri-marine project, focused on the North-South infrastructure and energy security, through the dynamic Visegrad Group, focused on the needs of the nine eastern countries of the NATO Flank, the Bucharest Initiative, to the dialogue with a number of countries in the region using the V4+ formula. It is particularly important to stress here that regional initiatives supported by us they are not directed against anyone and anything, and they enrich and complement the sense of European integration. Ladies and gentlemen! We have recently passed halfway through our presidency in the Visegrad Group. The last months have confirmed the validity of the decision to revive this forum as the most important mechanism of Polish foreign policy in Central Europe. We believe that 2017 will be equally fruitful in this respect. Close ties with our neighbours help us to formulate a common position within the European Union, to build understanding and support for our demands in other European capitals. At the same time, while engaging in Central European cooperation, Poland has developed itself the position of spokesperson of the region in certain matters. Thanks to the revival of contacts with Nordic and Baltic countries, including the Polish presidency of the Baltic Sea Council in June 2016, we understand and know how to cooperate more effectively. The coming months should bring a series of my bilateral meetings with almost all Nordic and Baltic partners. We also want to work with the new Lithuanian government in good faith, although this depends to a large extent on the goodwill of our partners, especially in terms of the implementation of the rights of Poles in Lithuania. I talked about this with my Lithuanian counterpart during his recent visit to Poland. We have undertaken to test new forms of cooperation. Romania and Turkey are important economic and security partners in the region of the Balkans and the Black Sea and the Middle East. Cooperation with these countries has taken institutional form in the form of so-called. East flank triangle. We are paying attention to the developments in the latter country, which plays an extremely important role in the EU's plans to resolve the migration crisis. We trust that our Turkish allies will be able to maintain the right balance between respect for the rule of law and the need to stand firm against terrorism. Poland will remain an advocate of the enlargement process of the European Union. We believe that the doors of Europe should remain open to countries that share the vision of democratic cooperation between countries. We prefer to extend our hand in greetings rather than goodbyes, as is the case with the United Kingdom. We want to continue to share our accession experiences with the countries of the Western Balkans. This year we are planning a series of initiatives aimed at six candidate countries in the European Union from this region: Serbia, Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Kosovo. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Poland is the only country in Europe bordering the three Eastern European countries and is necessarily more interested in the stability and peaceful development of this area than anyone else. We are safe in our Polish home, but like any good neighbour we cannot remain indifferent to what is happening behind the wall. And as a good neighbour, we believe that the basis for political order in Eastern Europe, as well as throughout Europe, can only be a sovereign choice of its own path of development by each society. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We respect the individual choices of our partners - those who are in favour of closer relations with the European Union and those who are more suited to looser forms of cooperation. In this spirit, we support the idea of matching the Eastern Partnership's content to the individual needs of individual countries. The preparations for this year's Partnership Summit in Brussels should provide an opportunity for realistic evaluation and new impetus. Poland continues its policy of supporting the pro-European aspirations of Ukraine. We stand in the position that the basis for a peaceful resolution of the conflict is the full implementation of the Minsk agreements. The importance and importance of bilateral relations confirmed last year's visits by President Andrzej Duda in Kiev and President Petr Poroshenko in Warsaw. We support the actions of the Ukrainian authorities in the field of decentralisation, local government reform and the fight against corruption. 2016 was good for mutually beneficial Polish-Ukrainian defence cooperation. The Polish-Lithuanian-Ukrainian brigade took part in the exercises of Anakonda 2016. We started training Ukrainian soldiers on the Jaworów field, among others. with the United States and Canada. The Ministry of Defence of Poland and Ukraine signed two important agreements: a new general agreement on defence cooperation and detailed arrangements governing industrial cooperation. All this shows that the Polish-Ukrainian strategic partnership is increasingly filled with content and will promote building the resilience of our neighbour to destabilisation. We give Ukraine a clear signal that what happens today to their country is not only our concern, but also our concrete response. This is also more than 1,200 thousand. visas issued last year by our consular offices in Ukraine, including more than 650 thousand. Employee visas. Such action also responds to the needs of the Polish labour market, looking for workers in more and more sectors of the economy in Ukraine, and is a concrete example of foreign policy for the economic interests of the country. By supporting Ukraine in its reform efforts and pro-European policy, we do not lose sight of historical issues. We believe that the true strategic partnership should be accompanied by the truth. At the same time, we do not want our bilateral relations to become a hostage of the past. With it in mind, with a view to social dialogue, we decided to resume the proven format of bilateral cooperation, which is the Polish-Ukrainian Partnership Forum. We also strive to establish a Polish-Ukrainian centre of good neighbourhood, which would serve to bring Polish and Ukrainian nations closer together by developing good neighbourly relations, cooperation and cultural exchange. During the past year, Poland's policy towards Belarus changed. We have implemented a number of important visits and bilateral meetings, which have significantly broadened the horizon of our relations. The primary task will be to confirm the standardization of bilateral relations with specific decisions, mainly in the field of economic cooperation, border cooperation, trade, and also in the field of standardization of relations with Poles' environments in Belarus. [[It's a great future.]] We are also preparing to launch the Polish-Belarusian historical commission. Unfortunately, policies towards the Russian Federation are conditioned by aggressive Russian actions in Eastern Europe. [[Where's the wreck?]] At the same time, however, we see the need for dialogue with our Russian neighbour. We will take steps to develop social dialogue, people-to-people contacts, cultural cooperation and the reconstruction of bilateral economic relations. We hope that the resumption of the work of the Polish-Russian Difficulty Group will contribute to this. We take Russia seriously, as the great country and neighbour are treated, but when it comes to our relationship, it takes two to tango. We will therefore continue to convince our Russian partners that constructive cooperation is possible if it is based on careful listening and understanding of the expectations of the other party. Here we expect to return the wreckage of the presidential aircraft TU-154 to the rightful owner, the Polish state. [[Something's not coming.]] The matter of recovering the wreckage lies at the heart of the government of Law and Justice, and especially the head of Polish diplomacy. I will not stop trying to do the will of Poles who have been waiting almost seven years for this to happen. We are currently considering the possibility of filing a complaint concerning the Russian investigation into the Smolensk disaster to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. We intend to make the most of the potential of relations with countries further east, with the countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia, especially in the field of trade and investment cooperation. It will help, among other things. our planned new Polish Institute in Tbilisi. High Izbo! One of the indicators of the international position of countries in the 21st century, in the 21st century, is their ability to cooperate effectively not only with the nearest geographical environment, but also on a global scale. Over the past year, we have put a lot of effort into developing relations with non-European partners. This will continue this year, taking into account the different dimensions of foreign policy. A lasting element of Polish foreign policy became a strategic partnership with the People's Republic of China. We use a favourable atmosphere in Polish-Chinese relations after last year's contacts at the highest level. We look forward to further developing cooperation in the 16+1 format, i.e. between the countries of Central Europe and China, including through the Secretariat for Foreign Affairs. Seaside located in our country. As the Chinese operative says, the journey for a thousand miles begins with the first step. We've already taken a few steps. We also want to develop contacts with the other two strategic partners in Asia, Japan and the Republic of Korea. These are the largest Asian investors, thanks to which many jobs have been created and are constantly created in Poland. Dynamics is also gaining cooperation with India, as can be seen from the recent visit of Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński in this country at the head of the business delegation and his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In line with the development of economic relations, we aim to strengthen the dialogue on global security issues, in particular as a result of the rise in terrorist threats. We attach key importance to cooperation with Japan, Australia, New Zealand. It will be served by my visit to these countries next month. Middle East, North Africa, Horn of Africa has been an inflammatory region on the map of the world for many years. At the same time, we see this area not only in the context of challenges but also opportunities, especially in terms of economic cooperation, as demonstrated by the increase in trade with countries such as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. We have succeeded in strengthening energy security thanks to the beginning of summer days. (a) supplies of Qatari gas to a gas-port in Świnoujście. Oil tankers from Iran also arrived in Gdansk. Since the establishment of the current government, bilateral contacts with African and Middle East countries have been clearly intensified. We have re-established embassies in Senegal and Tanzania. The President of the Republic visited Jordan and hosted the king of Jordan in Warsaw, the presidents of Senegal, the Palestinian Authority, as well as the vice-president of Iran. Under the leadership of the Prime Minister, a Polish-Israeli intergovernmental consultation took place in Jerusalem. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I visited Israel and Palestine, attended the EU-League Ministerial Summit of Arab States in Cairo and the subsequent conferences on the Middle East peace process initiated by France. In 2017, I plan to visit a number of countries in the Middle East and Africa: Sudan, Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Algeria, Morocco and Mauritania. In response to the dramatic situation of the civilian population affected by the war in Syria, we have taken action to support people suffering, refugees and their communities in neighbouring countries. The priority is to provide assistance in Syria itself and in Lebanon and Jordan. We reach out to help those in need without media noise and political fireworks. At the initiative of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2016, a joint 3-year reconstruction project was launched in Lebanon. Polish response to the humanitarian and immigration crisis is also a contribution to special EU funds. The total amount of aid in response to the Syrian conflict and the migration crisis amounted to more than PLN 119 million last year. [[Applause]] Poland strengthens political and economic relations with Latin America and the Caribbean region. He served it, among others. my participation in the October summit of the European Union Foreign Ministers and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States in the Dominican Republic. In the coming year, we want to give a strategic dimension to our partnership with Mexico... [[Overzealousness worse than fascism.]] ...why the planned visit of the President of the Republic in this country will serve. We will consistently step up cooperation also with other countries of the Pacific Alliance - Chile, Colombia and Peru. We will host the President of this last country in Poland this year. Initiatives undertaken worldwide by Polish diplomacy are accompanied by concern for the state of human rights. In 2016, the UN Human Rights Council adopted by consensus a resolution proposed jointly by Poland, Australia, Chile, the Republic of Korea and South Africa on the role of good governance in promoting human rights. Poland seeks to ensure that the protection of the rights of religious minorities, including Christians, is of interest and joint action by the European Union and the UN. We are involved in drafting documents on freedom of religion and religion and are taking part in debates on this subject. Poland is one of the sponsors of the UN resolution on freedom of religion and religion. We draw attention to cases of non-compliance with the rights of religious minorities, including cases of persecution of Christians. During the December conference of the Warsaw Dialogue for Democracy organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, one of the sessions was devoted primarily to the protection of the rights of people belonging to religious minorities. In the international forum, we draw attention to the worrying situation of human rights in Crimea, including the situation of religious, ethnic minorities, especially the Crimean Tatars. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Supporting Polish companies abroad is one of the priority tasks of Polish diplomacy. It serves this purpose, among others. development of the network of our diplomatic offices in the world. Our companies are increasingly prepared to face international competition, but diplomatic aid is often necessary for the new market. It is often the only weapon in cases of unfair and discriminatory practices. In 2017, we will focus on promoting Poland as a creative and innovative country. We will support Polish start-ups, establishing contacts on foreign markets. Our goal is also to activate cooperation between Polish and global scientific centres. I initiated such activities last year, visiting important business missions such as Seattle in the USA and Vancouver in Canada. As part of the economic promotion, we will pay great attention to green technologies, especially during the energy forum in Vienna and during the preparation of the COP24 climate conference in Poland in 2018. We are making efforts to increase the participation of Polish companies in tenders and projects of international organizations, which Poland is a member of. We are pleased that nearly 1500 Polish companies have participated in such initiatives in the last 2 years. We are increasingly committed to supporting the activities of international economic and territorial authorities. The support for Łódź's efforts to organise the Expo in 2022 will take a special place among these activities. High Izbo! Polonia and Poles living outside the country occupy a unique place in the foreign policy of the Republic of Poland. They are members of our Polish family, part of Poland in the farthest corners of the world. That is why we care more about relations with Polonia and Poles than others. Over the past year, we have put a lot of effort into pursuing the interests of Polish communities in various countries. In Latvia we prevented the liquidation of the Polish school in Krasław. In Germany, we negotiated the financing of the renovation of the Polish House in Bochum. [[Voice from the hall: What about Ukraine?]] After long negotiations, we have led to an agreement on cooperation in the field of education with Belarus. [[About the closure of Belsat.]] In response to the expectations of our fellow countrymen from the East, we amended the Polish Charter Act. [[Church of St. Mary Magdalene.]] We anticipate that the number of persons applying for this card will increase significantly in view of the new rights granted to card holders this year. Last year the consuls adopted a record number of over 27 thousand. conclusions. The government has also taken steps to speed up the process of repatriating Poles from the East. The largest group of repatriates, more than 150 people, arrived in December Ub. R. Kazakh. The new legal solutions significantly improve the aid provided to local residents from across the eastern border in Poland. We are ready to continue this work. The Polish authorities will continue to seek to respect the rights of Polish minorities in the East as well as their fellow countrymen in other regions of the world, especially recent migrants to Western European countries. The cases of aggression against Polish citizens meet and will meet with the determined and immediate response of authorities and consular services. Supporting the teaching of Polish language and knowledge about Poland will remain a priority task in the implementation of Polish policy. For support of Polish education abroad through institutions we intend to allocate much larger resources than before. We will place particular emphasis on the historical education of the young generation. The partnership also obliges in relations with Polonia. New initiatives are needed on both sides and a new look at the opportunities offered by cooperation and dialogue. In particular, we are looking for active involvement of our compatriots in actions for the positive image of Poland in the world. We are committed to effective and close cooperation between our institutions and Polonia, and we will therefore develop Polonia councils operating at diplomatic and consular offices. High Seym! Polish diplomats not only seek Polish interests, but also help citizens of the Republic under every latitude. They do so both when a person loses his passport and when he falls victim to a kidnapping. It is thanks to our diplomats abroad that Polish Poles can count on support in difficult situations. In order to provide effective assistance to citizens abroad, we are expanding the network of consular offices. We have established the Consulate General of the Republic of Poland in Houston, Texas, and we are planning to open the consular office in Belfast this year. In order to improve the telephone service of Polish citizens living in the United Kingdom and Ireland, we have established, already operational, a Consular Information Centre - a consular call center for Polish citizens. In parallel, we have launched an integrated on-call phone that facilitates efficient contact in crisis situations requiring contact with the consul outside the hours of work of consulates. Further, we envisage extending these services to other countries as well. One of the most serious problems our consuls face are matters concerning the parental power of Polish citizens. This is particularly true for countries that are aimed at intense migration - Great Britain, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Norway. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Polish Consular Offices will do their utmost to ensure that parents receive proper assistance and support in such matters. The year 2017 will be the next year of active and multi-directional public diplomacy coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, diplomacy, which is the primary goal of taking care of Poland's good name and its image. This year we include the promotion of Polish political thought and history, Poland's contribution to the world heritage of humanism, the promotion of creative and innovative Poland. Like last year, we will pay much attention to the Polish historical narrative in the world. The main objective of our actions will be to present Poland as a modern country drawing from its tradition, as a tolerant state of many nations and cultures. [[Before your reign.]] We must also firmly, according to historical facts, preserve the good name of Poland and strive for its rightful place in the history of Europe and the world. We have activated actions aimed at combating lying statements of responsibility for the organization and functioning of Nazi German death camps during World War II. The deceiving of historical forgeries can serve modern forms of communication. For example, let the publication of the movie "Words matter," meaning "Words matter," by our embassy in Washington through social media, serve as an example. In 2017, the historical narrative will focus on the achievements of such outstanding figures as: Tadeusz Kościuszko, Józef Piłsudski or Józef Haller. In 2017, large international conferences will be held, co-organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, dedicated inter alia. the situation of European intellectual elites under German occupation and the Polish Righteous Saver of Jews. We will make extensive use of the various tools of public diplomacy, especially study visits with the participation of representatives of foreign opinion-makers. Mr. Marshal! Membership! Between 2008 and 2015 several dozen Polish diplomatic and consular posts were liquidated. In some parts of the world, especially in Africa, this has resulted in extensive white spots. This means not only diplomatic absence but also lack of consular assistance for citizens who are in need. Last year we reversed this trend. Gradually we recreate the network of Polish embassies and consulates. The embassies are already in service in Senegal and Iraq. In January this year embassies were established in Tanzania and Panama, and at the beginning of February the Consulate General of the Republic of Poland in Houston. These facilities will start fully in the second half of this year. We are planning to establish a consular office in Belfast in the near future. Depending on the budgetary possibilities, we will consider opening the Embassy in the Philippines. If security conditions allow us to do so, we will resume the operation of institutions in high-risk countries, but important from the point of view of Polish foreign and economic policy, i.e. Syria and Libya. We are modernising many Polish foreign institutions as part of a comprehensive programme to correct long-term negligence in the proper maintenance of the infrastructure necessary for the functioning of the foreign service. This year we will start building embassies in Berlin and Minsk. 2017 will be the first full year of activity of the newly established Academy of Diplomat Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose task is to educate young diplomats and professional development of the staff of the Ministry. Since the beginning of February this year. 32 people, selected in a multi-stage recruitment process announced publicly in the press, began a diplomatic and consulative application. They're twice as many applicants as they've been trained in senior yearbooks. With a view to further professionalization of diplomatic personnel, we have started work on amending the Foreign Service Act. It is intended to help recruit for the service of high-class specialists, people dedicated to the mission of serving Poland and Poles. In 2016, we noted an increase in attacks, unfortunately, of ICTs aimed at the Ministry's critical infrastructure, also on 15 December 2016. We will continue preventive and reactive action to increase the ability of our diplomats to act without fear of the security of the information being sent. High Seym! The international order established after the Cold War is changing before our eyes. The international environment of the Republic of Poland is also changing. We view this as a difficult challenge to face. Polish diplomacy takes up this glove. Under these conditions, we will be guided by special responsibility and discretion, while at the same time taking forward-sighted action to make the Republic even safer and to make fuller use of its potential for development. Poland, a strong, growing, author-friendly country in the world, will be a credible ally within NATO, an important Central European country and a co-founding state of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, today's concept of Polish diplomacy in 2017, subjective and civic, strongly embedded in multilateral cooperation and building valuable alliances, is the right answer to these problems that we have to face. This is the course we took. That's our new reality navigation. Before the debate, which, I hope, will begin soon, I will again appeal to Chinese wisdom: The man who says: This cannot be done should not interfere with the one who does it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] I ask the High House to accept government information about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2017. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Some Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice stand up, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u5	Thank you, Minister. I'm currently running a 30-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 23 hours 11 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 17 of the agenda. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 113 and 5 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of Mrs Małgorzata Gosievska. [[The president's not here.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u6	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to thank the Minister for today's comprehensive vision of Polish foreign policy, both the achievements last year and the prospects for the current year and the further horizon. It discusses the problems of European and global security, regional and bilateral cooperation with Poland's key partners, our relations with important actors of international relations on all continents, as well as particularly current political issues such as new threats to world order after World War II, migration crisis or threats from international terrorism. The Minister also submitted a report on the activities of Polish diplomacy in such spheres as creating an objective image of Poland abroad... [[Mr. Marshal, at least it's turnout here.]] ...economic cooperation, including diplomatic support for Polish business, care for Polish people and Poles living outside the country, expansion of the sphere of influence of Polish diplomatic and consular services, announced statutory changes in Polish foreign service, fundamental reform of professional training of our diplomacy, as well as appropriate historical policy on the international stage. In my speech, I will not comment on all the themes of this comprehensive information, so I will focus on those that seem to be the most important from the point of view of our political formation. It is important to agree with the basic exposé thesis on the coming of an exceptional, perhaps groundbreaking stage in the development of international relations. Such phenomena require special caution and vigilance in order to ensure the security of the state, but at the same time, through courage in action, they create new opportunities for building our country's position on the international stage. It is with satisfaction to say that our diplomacy has successfully dealt with this task by raising the rank and importance of our country in world politics. In view of the threats posed by Russia's policy to prevent Ukraine from getting closer to the European Union, anticipating the Crimea and inspiring the bloody conflict in Donbas, as well as provocative action against NATO member states, it was our initiative that led to breakthrough decisions at the NATO summit in Warsaw. Thanks to the deployment in our country of US military troops and a number of other NATO countries, our security and security of our region is much better protected. These forces are not equivalent to the forces of the Russian Federation in the western direction, but the risk of creating an armed conflict with them is a strong factor stopping a possible aggressor. Poland now attaches much more importance to building its own defence capabilities by spending more money on modernising the army, including international peace actions to demonstrate solidarity with allies and improving the level of training of our troops. It is also important to emphasise the taking up of tasks related to the organisation of territorial defence of the country and involvement of the young generation of Poles in this process. In view of the migration crisis, Poland has not been particularly exposed to the influx of large numbers of refugees or migrants from the Middle East, North Africa or Afghanistan, but has shown a firm attitude towards attempts to impose specific quotas of refugees on European Union countries. [[And so are the predecessors.]] The error of this EU elite policy has been fully confirmed by the practice of the past year. This is pointed out by both the rise in realism in the policies of key EU governments and the sharp rise in eurosceptic attitudes in a number of European countries, particularly in the ranks of right-wing nationalist parties, which are currently seeking to take over power and make a dangerous return in their policies to the European integration process. This firm reaction of the Polish authorities, which at the same time declare their willingness to influence the resolution of the immigration crisis in the countries in which it was born, significantly elevated Poland's authority and strengthened its position as a regional leader. The growing role of the Visegrad Group is linked to this issue, which in new geopolitical circumstances proves its vitality and prospects. We fully agree with the Minister's position that the views on the ephemerality of V4 concerning the completely divergent interests of individual Member States have not been confirmed and are currently experiencing a visible renaissance. It is caused by e.g. similar economic capacities that identify opportunities for action in the face of a crisis of this magnitude, as well as rational assertiveness in defence of their rights and interests within the EU. The Minister's thesis on the growing importance of regional cooperation in the implementation of the Tri-marine idea deserves strong support. It is a broader concept and therefore less cryptic than previously indicated by the Visegrad Group, but the conference in Dubrovnik outlined a rather clear option to build economic, infrastructure and transport links along the north-south axis at the eastern border of Europe between the Baltic, Black and Adriatic Seas. This concept is not politically-ideological and, as the Minister rightly pointed out, is not directed against anyone or an alternative to existing integration structures, especially as it also covers non-member countries of the European Union. On the other hand, it represents a community of economic, social and cultural interests of nations, which can bring many values to the crisis-stricken value of the European project. It is also worth highlighting the interest of a powerful Chinese partner in this idea. As we know, China, in implementing its concept: one road, one lane, provides for major infrastructure investments in the region, which can bring the interests of regions as far apart as the Baltic States and the Balkan States closer together. This in turn should result in an increase in the importance of Central and Eastern Europe compared to the old Europe. It is not necessary to add that in all these regional initiatives the role of Poland as a large and influential actor is crucial. In this context, I would like to take a critical note of the Minister's information, in which, I believe, he has just given a little too little space to show China's role in our bilateral relations, which is largely limited to visits at the highest level. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again that the emerging new cooperation initiatives do not mean the slightest weakening of our bilateral relations with countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom or France, as the Minister has made clear and also our position within the European Union. This is, on the other hand, an attempt to enrich the substance of European cooperation, breaking down certain stereotypes that, in such a complex situation as last year, could harm our partnership relations on the continent. Poland can and should contribute creatively to generating interesting projects, also against the unkind criticisms of Polish foreign policy, because this serves our strategic and long-term interests. The Minister strongly stressed the importance of our cooperation with Ukraine's engaged in the war and facing a severe economic crisis and support for Ukraine. Of course, our top priority in regional policy remains this country because of our historical traditions, its economic, demographic potential, and increasingly stronger The bonds of interests linking our nations. The crisis in Ukraine is also a direct threat to the security of Poland. That is why we are trying to help the Ukrainian authorities both directly, through the actions of our authorities, NGOs, citizens' initiatives in the process of necessary reforms in the country, and through support for Ukraine in the international arena, where sometimes there are signs of scepticism about the country's ability to defend its sovereignty and progress through reforms, to continue the pro-European option. We regard Ukraine's support as our supreme right of state, as a test of European solidarity in the face of Russia's imperial politics. Recognizing the importance of the Minsk peace process as a diplomatic solution to this dangerous crisis for Europe as a whole, we should remember that the crisis was consciously triggered by external force, which did not hesitate to break the fundamental principles of international law, the post-war European order confirmed by a series of documents of fundamental importance. At the same time, Russia is constantly accusing the Ukrainian authorities of causing the crisis, de facto refusing their legitimacy to rule - it is an element constantly raised in extremely aggressive Russian propaganda. This, in turn, takes away the credibility of Russia's intentions in the Minsk peace process. The Russian authorities realise that the success of the reforms in Ukraine, confirming its European choice, regardless of the pace of progress towards the formal structures of the European Union, poses a great challenge for the political regime in Russia. Hence the hope of abandoning the path of war aggression, or at least attempts to destabilise Ukraine's political and socio-economic situation, seems very illusory. We must treat this as an axiom in our foreign policy and as a guideline for action within the EU and in transatlantic relations. The Minister has clearly defined our position with regard to the election of the new President of the United States, which has aroused and continues to arouse great emotions in the United States and Europe. The diplomatic contacts so far do not confirm the concerns that some of President Trump's earlier statements may have raised during the election campaign. We confirm that we are hoping for fruitful cooperation with the new US administration and wish success through the economic and military reconstruction of America's power to maintain a leading position in international relations, as declared by the elected president. Some concerns raised his comments on NATO's anachronism, the excessive pragmatism of foreign policy, which meant full concentration on internal affairs, the abandonment of ideological elements in practical foreign policy, which would mean a return to the policy of isolationism, which had already proved tragic in its time. This would also mean abandoning Ukraine's support policy, daring Russia to escalate hostile actions. The current tightening of the situation in Donbasa should probably be interpreted as a test of the US's intentions towards Russia's policy. However, it is with satisfaction that we can conclude that these worrying signals are not in practice and transatlantic relations remain undisturbed. In regional policy, there is a turning point in relations with another eastern neighbour - Belarus. It is a very difficult partner and, on the basis of many years of experience, it cannot be clearly stated how certain positive elements in Belarus' internal and foreign policies will prove to be, but we see some signs of liberalisation of the internal regime in Belarus, a change of rhetoric towards the West, a lack of support for the President of Belarus for Russian actions in Ukraine, and even Russia's actions in the border area with Belarus after the visa liberalisation of the country's regime towards the West. We expect further steps to meet European standards in this direction, which should be expressed in recognition of full rights for the Polish minority in Belarus. Poland should not, however, comply with the demands of the Belarusian party in a non-equivalent manner. Improving relations, including abandoning support for the Belarusian opposition, should take place with the progressive democratisation of the country. In the Minister's exposition relations with Russia were quite fragmented. We find here the announcement of reactivating the group on. difficult, willful relations based on understanding the positions and interests of the other party, but such a path does not seem easy in the context of other statements made by the Minister, such as the Russian Federation's policy towards the Middle East. Such a policy can be both a response to the very moderate involvement of Western countries in the region and the dedication of Russia and the pursuit of a stronger political crisis in the countries of the European Union. The Minister very rightly stated that Russia has openly formulated its general objectives, which include the liquidation of NATO and the disintegration of the European Union. The migration crisis is a very convenient instrument for achieving these objectives. The return to the policy of the sphere of influence in Europe and the reactivation of Yalta's spirit, which could result from a fundamental change in Europe, as a result of access to right-conservative or left-wing powers seeking to agree with Russia at all costs and leaving it free of charge to the former Soviet States and Central and Eastern Europe, is an unacceptable scenario for us, and we therefore consider it appropriate to have a policy of restraint in relations with Russia and, in line with the position expressed in the exposé, to maintain social and cultural contacts in those areas where there is a chance for mutual understanding. This problem is related to propaganda as part of the information war and hybrid action to bring about cognitive dissonance in democratic societies. The Minister mentioned this in the exposé. However, it seems that the element of the fight against Russian propaganda, the opposition to cyber attacks, the possibility of being penetrated into the most sensitive IT structures of Western countries by hackers from the special service community should become one of the main fields the activities of the security services of our countries. Poland as a country that survived and knows the principles of communist structures, better than Western European countries understands the risks involved, but also has heirs of the old system susceptible to propaganda activities from Russia. This places the task on us to actively participate in institutional forms of combating propaganda aggression towards the West and even initiating them. These actions are extremely modest and inefficient so far, Minister. We strongly support the Minister's position on issues related to the care of Polonia, new legal solutions concerning the Polish Charter and other facilitations for fellow countrymen abroad allowing them to return to their homeland or to cooperate more closely with it. This raises the problem of expanding the network of our diplomatic and consular offices in the world, including in high-risk countries, as well as countries with unused economic opportunities. We are pleased that our postulate on this issue, formulated last year, is being successfully implemented and we are returning to places previously recklessly left behind. This strategy requires a quantitative and qualitative enrichment of Polish foreign service. We hope that the new Foreign Service Act will improve the situation in this area. A state with such rich cultural traditions, for which the achievements of culture and art are one of the most important elements of positioning our nation in the world as a depositary of great spiritual, historical and contemporary values, needs proper representation to promote these values in the world, including from new intellectual backgrounds, which have been marginalized for years. These new figures seem to be able to meet the tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as the protection of the Polish state, the opposition to the shameful attempts of accusing the state and the Polish nation of the crimes of World War II, which is reflected in the name of German death camps by Polish concentration camps. The authors of these words, often published in renowned foreign media, give the impression of people who have no conscious intention of harming Poland, acting in bad faith, but simply do not realize their own incompetence and ignorance of elementary truths of history. In the atmosphere created by such media it is easier to slander Poland, to lower its status in the eyes of social groups, especially in Western countries, which have on their conscience actual crimes or sins of omission and indifference. To date, attempts to counter these practices have proved insufficient and we must make efforts to support the efforts of the Foreign Office in this field by all the political forces in our country, for which the concept of patriotism is not an empty sound. This year's initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deserves strong support to re-activate the Academy of Diplomats, which will educate a new generation of Polish diplomats who respect patriotic values and wisely, with moderation of the right people who are well-educated, able to present the achievements of our country abroad. Polish delegates sent to Moscow to familiarize themselves with the institutional and substantive achievements of the USSR in the diplomatic field have found that it is an incomparable model and therefore it makes no sense to create a diplomatic school of its own. The result of these decisions, such thinking, was the fact that for several decades our diplomats were brought up on a Soviet ideological and political pattern, which unfortunately has not yet been completely eradicated. I would also like to note with satisfaction the decision of the Minister to set up a new Polish Institute in Tbilisi. This is the year in which we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the resumption of diplomatic relations with Georgia. This will allow us to prepare better for the next, even more important anniversaries between our countries - soon the 100th anniversary of Georgia's recognition by Poland. In his exposé, the Minister generously skipped the problem of difficulties and tensions around Polish foreign policy created by our national opposition. [[That's very thoughtful, bravo!]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What kind of language is that?]] He focused on the presentation of the activities and achievements of his department, without overlooking the very difficult issues... [[Mr King Gajewska-Płochock: I think you meant Kaczyński.]] ...and the challenges facing our policy in the international environment, resulting from the plexus of huge contradictions that have arisen in recent times and which Poland is not the reason. I do not doubt that in today's debate, criticism from the opposition will be equally reported. Besides, it was already in the course of the Minister's speech on Twitter by Mr Trzaskowski, Minister Trzaskowski. [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] [[Finally, a good name.]] This is the obvious continuation of your foreign policy, this twitter foreign policy. [[San Escobar.]] [[We learn from Trump.]] We have a real, active foreign policy... [[Applause]] [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: Theoretical, theoretical.]] ...and you, my dears, were usually limited...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u7	Mr Rutkowski, who was one of the Members' hooligans who made a fuss here a few weeks ago... [[But is this a private opinion or...]] ...tonight he's interfering with the proceedings again. [[Applause]] [[That's your personal opinion?]] I would very much like to ask the Member to stop his emotions and not to interfere with the implementation of the programme. [[But what language is that, Marshal?]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'm not...]] [[It's worth knowing the names of the Members.]] [[A voice from the room: I think another Member was involved.]] [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: How to be a marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u8	So let me repeat again: we have a real, active foreign policy, you were usually limited to Twitter messages. However, success in Polish foreign policy can only be achieved under conditions of far-reaching consensus in political elites, with harmonious cooperation of all institutions responsible for foreign policy. Even during the post-communist rule of the left in Poland, this principle was respected. The transfer of contentious issues of internal nature resulting from many years of neglect and error, disregarding the Polish position by some of the Polish elites, to the European and world forums is a serious sin of opposition. However, the exposé presented by you allows you to believe that Polish foreign policy will not go off the road. The opponents of current governments will not be able to destabilize the situation in Poland and around Poland by creating an impression, especially among foreign elites, that their particular interests are the interests of the whole nation, the incarnation of a democratic idea which is allegedly undermined by the rule of law and justice. I am convinced that awareness of this is getting more and more clear to our partners in the European Union, who are gradually drowning anti-Polish rhetoric and seeing the results of consistent internal and foreign policies, better understand the attitudes and intentions of the Polish authorities, which can also be useful for them in their efforts to preserve democracy in their own countries. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Law and Justice Club welcomes and accepts the Minister's exposé thesis. Thanks to you, Minister, Polish foreign policy has finally regained its subjectivity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u9	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Schetyn will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Minister! Exposé Minister for Foreign Affairs is always an important moment and an important time for the debate on foreign policy, about strategy. Every year we talk like this, but we always recall what happened before, we compare to this plan that the government, the Foreign Minister, presents. I also want to say a few words about this before I talk about the plans - about this implementation by the government of a good change in foreign policy last year. Of course, we need to speak, as we all confirm, because we know that there is a difficult international situation, complicated, global forces, alliances, many, many changes, crises, an unstable situation in Europe opening up new fields of conflict, and finally a security issue - these are all great challenges for foreign policy, great question marks, and it is always the case that the Minister of Foreign Affairs - the whole government - is, after all, the role not only of the minister, but also of the whole government - must respond to this. And I would like to say that this year we judge as a bad year for Polish diplomacy, a bad year for Polish foreign policy. You can curse reality and plan, write plans for next year. Those 12 months are a test. [[I'm surprised.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who cares?]] You'd be surprised, sir, if you left here. It's like you're watching it up close...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u11	Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u12	...you'd see what we all see. Short-sighted, irresponsible, chaotic foreign policy. These are the elements of the response to today's, yesterday's and tomorrow's threats facing Poland. Before Poland, before the European Union. Polish foreign policy, we have always said this, especially for the last 8 years, should have or must have a strategic character, it is clear, but it should also be of a cross-party nature, looking for what is common, so that it can relate well and respond to these external expectations, looking for what can be, because we are very different here in internal politics, doing everything that is common outside, at least looking for what is common. You don't do that. You haven't done it in the last year. It was not a foreign policy of the Polish state, it was a foreign policy at the service of the party of power. It was a foreign policy of the PiS countries. And I'm sorry to say this, Minister. Because you subjected this foreign policy and your function to the Minister of Party Affairs, which focused on such inter-party self-promotion at the expense of responsibility for politics and for the position of Poland abroad. [[Applause]] And I'm saying this because I went through your speech. You talked about it, you brought up that speech a year ago. I read them, your diagnosis, opinions, evaluations, plans for this year. It wasn't a good exposé, Minister, and I'm sorry. You can be mistaken, you can shoot through, but when it comes to what you did, the way you strategically set Poland, when you planned this term of your activity, you really do have to be lucky, or you just have to get so deep, diametrically, so horribly wrong. And I'm talking about what you were talking about at the time, what you were talking about and what you assumed as the foundation of foreign policy: a protective umbrella, exclusive relations with Great Britain, so that I quote: a block of countries in our region, so-called. The intermarine, which was to be based on the strategic alliance between Poland and Hungary and the Visegrad Group under Polish leadership, created a new quality in Europe. Where's the quality? Where's Britain? He's just leaving the European Union. [[It's our fault.]] Your partners, the strategic partners indicated, are not in the European Union, leaving Europe. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] And what do you mean, they're not gonna stay there, they're gonna want to continue working with us, they're gonna continue to be our strategic ally? It's a suicide goal. It's suicide. And you need to know that. And you have to look at what you're saying today, through the prism of what you said last year, because that's part of your policy. You say one thing because you think the Poles will forget, they won't remember that you can bullshit them like you did in the election campaign, then in the exposé or in the ministers' promises, and then say that the international situation has changed. You guys have changed. But one thing's common. You still have no idea what you're doing. [[Applause]] I am talking about the European Union because this is the basis, this is our European family. This is our place. We're not going anywhere. We're not gonna land on the British Isles or go to some island. Do you want to go to the country... I don't want to name... [[Voice from the hall: To San Escobar.]] [[Voice from the room: Madera.]] ...because I don't want to make this debate, but I want to say that this naivety... [[Voice from the hall: The hens will not carry.]] ...and those dreams you've been presenting, they don't have any more. It is obvious, but today we really need a more serious debate and a serious look at foreign policy in a new situation, in a new way. And this is what I expected from your exposé today, that you, drawing lessons from what happened, learning from what happened in the UK, drawing conclusions from Brexit, learning from the fact that the second friend who lives in Budapest, who was the second support, the second pillar of your foreign policy and strategy, today opens the European Union, opens his policy to President Putin... And you don't learn from that. You don't tell me what to do in return. Great Britain, Hungary - Great Britain outside the European Union, Hungary in ever closer contact with President Putin. And what's in return? Nothing. [[Applause]] [[Belarus.]] Unless, in response to the crisis in relations with Great Britain and Budapest, with London and Budapest... [[The Prime Minister is listening.]] ...is Minsk and relations with Minsk... [[And Turkey.]] ...and a warm man who lives in Minsk, [[Applause]] Because as we hear from the High Representative of PiS, the Marshal of the Senate, he is really, you have to rediscover him. [[Applause]] I understand that this is also part of your commitment. Polish-British relations, I agree, must be cultivated. They are important, they will always be important, because Britain will not move elsewhere, she will be there, but it is the British classics who spoke about their own eternal interests. It's always been like this. And always Polish politics, especially after 1939, must remember this, every foreign minister, also our previous one, who spoke here in 1939, should remember that the United Kingdom will always have its interests, not European, not Polish. [[Voice from the hall: And the Germans have their own.]] And you forgot that, and that's what I'm surprised about. You, as a historian, should remember that. Second situation, Viktor Orbán. Really, what he does in economic policy, in this policy, I do not want to say directly: pro-Russian, but opening up very close, bringing his country closer, his economy in business, in entrepreneurship, in such an increasingly intense cooperation to Moscow - what does that mean? What does that mean? The fact that you promised in the election campaign to the Poles of Budapest means what? Budapest was supposed to be in Warsaw, and now there will be Budapest and Moscow? What are the consequences of what you're doing? We need to be aware of this, we need to redefine politics in this situation. [[Applause]] Well, you can't do that, he's an elemental. Two things you got on the table, which were the exclusivety of Polish foreign policy for the last 25 years, and certainly 8 years. The Weimar Triangle. This pearl - and I say it with full responsibility - was built very systematically, for years, for 25 years, it is about relations between Paris, Berlin and Warsaw - exclusive. In fact, all the heads of the countries of Central Europe, those who joined the European Union with us, said that the strength of Central Europe, the strength of the Visegrad Group, lies in the subjective, key presence of Poland in the Weimar Triangle. That's the truth. Everybody knows that. Where's the Weimar Triangle now? [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] You're gonna be here, so why are you so nervous? The truth hurts. [[Applause]] There's no relationship. There were announcements, we prepared, 25 years old, symbol, meetings... The exclusiveness of the Polish role is that we were the link between Western Europe, the oldest one, the one whose emanations are both Paris and Berlin, and Central Europe, Central Europe. It was Poland that was the fob. We had an impact on European policy, but we also had a good definition of Central Europe's policy. It's a key. It's really important. We did it. [[The voice from the room: You did, but you didn't do anything.]] And now that there's a situation, that... But can you please? Because I'm gonna pay attention. What's this? [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u13	Don't interrupt, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u14	If you're doing this thing, if you're looking at it... I mean, there's no way to replace such an exclusive position built for 25 years, there's no substitute for this thing. It's impossible for you to replace her with anything. If you have the opportunity to conduct such a foreign policy, that is what needs to be taken care of. And that's the point. It's not that we're in different political parties, it's that we're different, it's that you should respect that. And you just left it. Or that was the decision from Nowogrodzka to just turn away from it, a fatal, catastrophic decision - I say it with full responsibility, really. And there's no going back. It is 25 years old, you have a meeting of the French, German and Polish governments, you have an exclusive anniversary, celebration of the anniversary of the 25th anniversary, you cancel everything. You're just walking away from it. What kind of signal is that? Where is Polish foreign policy? Where's the basic responsibility? [[Applause]] Two issues that make up the Weimar Triangle, our relations, already, unfortunately, historical, are issues of relations with Germany, difficult, historical, and with France. Germany is, you know, history, huge historical burden, it's very, very difficult. Since 1989, since Helmut Kohl's visit, meetings with Tadeusz Mazowiecki... When the Berlin Wall fell, he was here in Warsaw. These hundreds, thousands of refugees from the German Democratic Republic in embassies, also in Warsaw, then a great symbolic mass in the Cross, in Lower Silesia, near Świdnica - the symbol of the meeting, very, very difficult but new beginning of our relations. After all, it is thanks to these last 25 years that so much has changed in relations with the Germans. What did you do, what did you do in your relations with the Germans? You've ruined this relationship. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You did it, and you think one... That's the truth. [[Applause]] I know you think one visit, one dessert and a smile will make a difference. They're not gonna change anything. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] Listen to yourselves, your statements, the statements of your president in recent years about Polish policy towards Germany. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: 2011]] You want me to calm down? Mr. Marshal, please... I can calm down... [[This isn't the time.]] But I can ask. Everything ahead of us and before you too. [[Voice from the room: Don't be deluded.]] And now it's like this. Of course it's like this, but it's a rule: Enemies look far, friends close. Local governments, relations, cooperation - 25 years of treaty, Polish-German treaty. You're having a celebration, you're not doing that. You are moving away from the idea of raising these exclusive relations with Germany, and the point is to show that, in fact, with this very, very difficult history, it is possible - if you want - good, open cooperation on both sides. This is about local governments, young people, entrepreneurs. Our biggest strategic and economic partner is Germany. It's all real. You don't exploit this potential, and it's not enough for desserts, smiles, and pretending everything's okay. France - the same - is a pillar of the Weimar Triangle, completely absent. I understand that you can choose the helicopters from whomever you want, this is your business, your decision, your responsibility. But, Minister, it can't be that the French side with a very serious contract, about it being overturned by the Minister of Defence or by the Minister of Economy - I don't know who turned it around, where the decisions were - learns from the press. It's a shame, isn't it? It can't be that you don't warn your partner, the equivalent, to describe this reality. That's the role of Foreign Minister. It wasn't like that. Not to mention, I know this is not your friendly resort, but Minister Kownacki's statement about the fork and that they should learn from us, it is a shame. This is my appeal, not even to you, but to the Prime Minister. It cannot be that Polish politicians speak in such a way. [[Ministers.]] Ministers who are in a key place, yes, have an important position, perform ex cathedra, say such things. How's it look? After all, you are the Polish government. Shame. [[Applause]] It's on the Ministry's website, I've been looking at it, your activities - and I'll say a word about France - the information that the Minister was in France, he's been talking to the French President's candidates, the politicians who are taking part in this race. I understand there was a meeting with Marine Le Pen. I do not know what it is about, leaving the European Union together by Poland and France? How can we not meet, not lead, not enjoy Polish-French relations at the level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister - Prime Minister, Government - Government or President - President, and meet someone whose vision and way of looking at Europe is absolutely negative? It's like this. [[Voice from the room: It is best to be offended and not listen.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] There's a situation... The Weimar Triangle, I started, the Weimar Triangle and the Visegrad Group, the important thing, the important thing, because the closest neighbors, the ones we're talking to. Now we hear that Poland is the leader, is the leader of the Visegrad Group. It can't be like this. It's not the PiS government, it's not the PiS party that decides who is the leader of the Visegrad Group. This is due to activity, position, relationship, possibilities. I want to say, I want to ask you what you think, how you want to build relationships with countries with which, as you say, you have great relationships, you have a common policy, you have a common view of everything. I ask whether you and the Czech Republic are also discussing how to weaken European integration, or are you talking with the Slovaks about how to join the euro area? Do you and Hungary talk about how to get closer economically to Russia? That's the question. It's for you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Piotrowska send.]] Strong position, I said this, strong position in the Visegrad Group, because Poland, of course, has the greatest potential, but has the exclusive, best possible relations with Western Europe, with the countries of the old Union. The voice is heard. Not just our voice, the voice of the whole environment, as I said, of Europe and our closest neighbours. [[I do now.]] You've frozen cooperation in the Weimar Triangle, that's the truth. [[Voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] We're hearing about the whiskey. I wasn't talking about the Jazz of Poles. I'm not talking about the whiskey, but if you interrupt me one more time... [[The voice from the hall: Who yawns?]] ...then I'll have to say it if the marshal doesn't react. It's just rude what you're doing. [[Applause]] The point is that, of course, it was about regional cooperation: the Visegrad Group, other partners, important, because it can be said that not only the Weimar Triangle. Okay. The Baltic States are an important partner, a Nordic group. We hear in the exposé about cooperation between Poland and the Visegrad Group, with the Baltic States and the Nordic Group. Agreed, but it must also be fair to say that this is the format that Minister Sikorski invented and introduced in 2013. Why not say it? What is it, or are you ashamed? After all, history did not start on 25 October 2015, you still can't understand it. [[Applause]] After all, someone before you worked hard for 20 years just to set these things up as they should be. That's a classic example of that. The last more than 20 years are indeed building a very strong position. It lasted, governments changed, it was different, political options changed, but foreign policy was just so lucky that it was building us closer to Europe that it was building our position in Europe. And that impact on Eastern policy, which is going to be absolutely missing right now. A strong Europe, a strong European Union, but also a Europe that listens to the Polish voice when this voice influences the Eastern policy of the European Union, sanctions imposed on Russia are a typical example of this. After all, it was thanks to our activity, even previous governments, that we built the whole structure, that we convinced all 28 countries. We did it. It was the result of the fact that we were taken seriously and had a serious position. How's it going today? It's all coming apart today. It's falling apart. There's a difference today because our voice doesn't mean that much. He was simply the axis around which we could build an agreement, we were respected by the Western countries, but also recognized as leaders by the Central European countries, so we managed to do so. Today, these issues about Eastern policy, Donald Trump's presidency... After all, it is well known that unless there is an integrated European Union, unless there is a true European community, which will constantly unite, build this community, have a common look, if not, Europe will be played out. You can see it after the first words, after President Trump's first speeches. Strong partner in Europe. The European Union must be such a partner and must be with the participation of the Polish government, the Polish minister. [[Applause]] It's important to build strength, it's obvious. Let's look at one thing that's characteristic and symbolic in some way. President of the European Council, EU position, important - Pole Donald Tusk Head of the European Council. A great success when it comes to the impact on European policy, its integration, its look, what I am talking about. Respected in Western Europe, representing the interests of Central Europe. Best possible candidate, no alternative. There's no other way. What are you doing with Donald Tusk's candidacy? There's confirmation in Malta, he's gonna run, everybody's in. Except the Polish government. The Polish government does not speak on this matter, and we hear at a meeting with Chancellor Merkel that advisors and President Kaczyński are talking about some proceedings that are being conducted. Do you realize how expensive this is? It's not like you can do things like that. If you're gonna say it, it's with your head up, but I expect it from the Prime Minister. There's a government here. This is not the time that the First Secretary of the PZPR ruled here and he met and he was running a state policy, really. [[Applause]] Aren't you ashamed of that? I respect President Kaczyński, and he has other interests today and is absent from the foreign policy debate. I understand he doesn't have to consult, he doesn't have to listen to the opposition, he doesn't have to listen to his minister. It can't be like this and we'll never accept it as a Civic Platform. It cannot be that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government does not speak on this matter. That is why I am asking today, Prime Minister, how you will vote on Donald Tusk's candidacy as President of the European Council. Tell me. [[Applause]] Will you raise your hand for Tusk's candidacy, or will you be against the only Prime Minister of European Governments? Tell me. [[Voice from the room: How did you vote for Wojciechowski?]] Tell me. [[Voice from the room: Wojciechowski, that's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u15	Members, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u16	It's a disgrace what you're doing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u17	Please do not interfere with the continuation of the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u18	There is no idea for Eastern politics, I have been talking about this, relations with Ukraine the worst in twenty years, difficult, as with Germany, very difficult, burdened with a great, difficult history, but the role of historians is to describe this story, and the role of politicians is to build an agreement, to find what is common, especially in the context of Eastern policy, war in the east of Ukraine. After all, this is a challenge for Polish politics, for the Polish government, for the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs. It's a terrible, complete deadlock. Now what do we have on the table? The Eastern Partnership criticized a year ago at the exposé, ridiculed. Minister Waszczykowski said that the Eastern Partnership led to Majdan, the victims. What do we hear today? Back to this initiative, very interesting, interesting, opening up great new opportunities. You have to be consistent. I mean, the thing is, it's always like these things are saved and they stay. Words may fly, but the things you say here stay, and we'll remind you of that every year. Next year, remember - and I also say this to the Minister of Foreign Affairs - will also be exposé and I will remind you whether we will recall the things that he has spoken about today and which he has not realized, because these are all announcements and great words. Russia - a difficult partner, many problems. We hear: The Polish-Russian Group for Difficult Affairs, a very important initiative, will be set up. After all, the initiative of setting up this group and the functioning of this group was created during the times of the Platform and PSL governments. After all, it's all been done, you've stopped it, and today you're coming back, it's our idea too. We don't want a license for this, we just want to tell you that it's not like you guys started this foreign policy from scratch, you guys got something really big, very specific and very meaningful, built for 25 years. You're wasting it. [[Applause]] [[Miss without the dowry.]] The question of the symbol, which certainly is what happened, the Smolensk catastrophe, the Smolensk tragedy, the wreckage of the Tupole after the Smolensk catastrophe. How many times have we heard in this room and in everyone else, how many times have you said about the wreckage that immediately the wreck will be brought back to Poland? How many times have you said that? [[Voice from the room: you were 8 years old.]] How many times have you said that? You're not gonna scream the truth. You're not gonna scream. It's like this. We said we'd do anything. What have you done? What did you do? It's the whispering of reality, of course, that you're working, that you're sending consorts, that you're fighting for it. There is no wreckage in Poland. Tell me, because that's what I want to ask Minister Waszczykowski, what was the MFA's activity on the recovery of the wreckage? [[Voice from the room: For 8 years?]] How many times did he occur, how many nots did he send, how many conversations he had with the Russian side, what was the activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I expect such information so that it is not that you will curse reality again. And why was it not so that Prime Minister Szydło, using exclusive, very good relations with Viktor Orbán, did not ask him to mention the issue of wreckage when he talked to Vladimir Putin about cooperation between Hungary and Russia, about joint business ventures, gas and oil? Why didn't she ask him about it? [[Applause]] Did you ask? Ask him. I'm asking here. I'm asking and I'm expecting an answer. It is so that today we hear: the International Court of Justice, we give the case to the wreckage, we expect this Hague Court to answer on the issue of the wreckage that the Russians will have to address. On the other hand, we know - the question whether the lawyers at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not tell Minister Waszczykowski - that Russia did not make a declaration which would oblige her to respect the judgments of this Court. Isn't that what you're doing? Don't you know that? You know, and you're describing a story that doesn't exist. That's not true. [[That's cheating.]] I mean, you do, you create something that's just a theater of absurdity, not reality. That's the policy you're making, that's the symbol of your foreign policy. [[Applause]] The issue of refugees, because this is an important thing that I want to say, because it is also symbolic. I'm just gonna be brief. The symbol of this policy and everything that's going on is what happened or didn't happen in Sopot when President Karnowski's appeal was to arrive 10 orphans from Aleppo, and it turned out... [[Voice from the room: 10.]] ...that it is impossible that there is a negative opinion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. This is also a necessity, the moment when the foreign minister's response is really necessary. I don't want to... It is impossible to believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not respond to a question when an MFA official makes such decisions. [[Applause]] It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's not just Minister Błaszczak. Don't you understand? That's what the media is writing about all over the world. [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] What are you laughing at? You're laughing at yourselves. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And now it's like... It is symbolic - Aleppo, a ruined city, actually orphans, and on the other hand history, such a difficult story of Polish children, orphans who were accepted in Iran, whose history is cited. That's over 20,000. children who later lived around the world, whether in India or New Zealand or Mexico. They were coming to the Muslim country. It's the orphans coming out together, who were pulling Anders' soldiers out of Sibir, out of inhuman soil. It's a symbol. Someone at the time, just a lot of countries, helped us in this situation. Why don't you remember that? I mean, you guys have to... [[Applause]] Aren't you ashamed? For this? We have worked for the image of Poland over the last 20 years, all of them, all of them. I'll insist on it. Because it's important. And as I said, it is a matter of public diplomacy and it is a question of those people, those officials who represent Poland in the world, in Europe, in embassies, in consulates, in institutes of Polish culture. This is a team. And you can't treat these people like this. You did, I mean. You cannot treat what happened in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also in previous years, as something foreign. If a memo from work 9 years ago, from 2008, is revealed and shown as part of a party game here, is intended to serve to attack or accuse politicians of another party, opposition today, specifically the Civic Platform, by your minister, your activist, it is absurd. How are you going to be treated by diplomats from other countries who are going to talk to you and do politics in the capitals of the world if they know that they can read later about conversations, comments in published notes? It's ridiculous, it's irresponsible, it's just not done. [[Applause]] We heard about the diplomatic academy. Especially here, Mrs Gosievska was so worried that simply with regard to the diplomatic service, it was only now that a diplomatic academy was established to train diplomats, at last after so many years. Nothing's more wrong, my fellow Member. I know it's hard to hear, but I'm not gonna tell you about the Civic Platform and eight years. I'll save it. The diplomatic academy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was established in 2002 by Minister Włodzimierz Cimoszewicz. You have to have the courage to say it. [[Applause]] It's a very good academy that raises really high-end diplomats, young people, after college that I've met all over the world, really. They're new, qualitatively well-prepared young people. And you have to be happy about it, you have to be proud of it. [[Applause]] And one more thing. Personality is always difficult, but here's one thing I want to say, so you don't think we're gonna leave it all behind. That's the point. Mr. Robert Grey's appointment as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. Shame because he was canceled at an express rate. We don't know what happened. There were claims that he was working with an alien intelligence officer. I don't know. But I want to know who reported him to the Foreign Office. That's waiting. We expect answers: Who reported this person? Whose candidate was he? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Tyremand.]] So that's what we're gonna be asking, and we're gonna be looking for answers. Really, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not your private initiative or property. This is a community, these are common things, this is taxpayer money, and that's what we need to know. This is a matter of the ethos of diplomatic service at all, of everything that has happened over the last few months, just over the last year, how the diplomatic service has been treated, how everyone has been thrown into one bag - strangers. And I think that it is precisely the foreign minister who will answer the questions that will, after all, be, even in the debate, that will also be later, after the debate, that he should clarify this. We need to respond to these accusations about the red post-communist web you were talking about, the concrete that got the job through the deals. These are hundreds of people, not just in the building on Shucha, but in the whole world. These are also those, Minister, who are now sitting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, watching this debate and preparing the answers to the questions that will be asked here. After all, these are people who work for Poland. You can't just zero them and throw them in the history dumpster. You can't let that happen. [[Applause]] There are hundreds of people, really hundreds of people, well educated Poles all over the world, open - it is the pride of Poland. Respect that. This is our value, this is our quality. Don't mess it up. What I'm trying to say is it's been a tough and bad year. [[Voice from the room: For the opposition.]] Normally, in any such situation summarizing such a debate, we are hoping that this next year will be better, that conclusions will be drawn that this is the first year, because it is still three years or less, but lessons will be drawn. I don't have any illusions. I don't have any illusions, I'll be honest with you, and I don't really know what to appeal for -- or for the president to... [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Exactly.]] ... Kaczyński was more involved in foreign policy or to be involved in this debate. I do not know what is better and what is safer for Poland. [[Applause]] I'll tell you what, I'll just give you one picture to think about it. I would not want Poland's position in Europe, here, in Europe, in the European Union, in the European Community, in Europe, which is going through a difficult time, which is facing difficult challenges, such as the position of Prime Minister Szydło in Malta - alone, on the side, with a sad face, on the margins of the Union. That's what you guys built today. That's what you guys built today, and that's a threat. [[Applause]] for all of us. Stop being ashamed of Europe, stop teaching her. Look for friends, not enemies. That always comes in handy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u19	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I guess these applause are partly for me for coming in, right? Thank you for that. I'd like to relax a little bit... so that we don't bother each other in this room so that we're in the right place and that it's not like everyone's counting on the marshal to calm down the room, which is not always able or not always willing to do. And going on to the subject, going on to the foreign policy issue, I will start with the Gospel of St. Matthew, for it is fashionable recently, where it is said, by the fruits you will know and: Beware of false prophets. In the exposé and this year ago, and this time there were very many smooth words, which can be understood in diplomacy, only that fruits, effects after a year of work of the new Ministry of Foreign Affairs can not be seen. I also do not know how to treat this second exposé, and I have just heard it in the media, Mr President, who gave it in front of the column hall, living, watchful, presented just in front of the column room, or perhaps a new center of power. But I don't want to wonder if we're going back to a bad, bad, old tradition that we have two centres of power when it comes to foreign affairs, because it can't be that way. Poland we have one, the center of power should be one. And I think I'd like the Minister's exposé to have a little bit of the warmth that was there, and, perhaps, to present a concept. 2016 was not easy for Poland, and probably not only for Poland, but also for the whole world. It was a year of serious challenges. It was a year, looking at European affairs, when the United Kingdom decided to sail away, and sails away from Europe. In the United States, a new president with vigor is fulfilling his electoral promises. It began to create a new era in America, and by all means a new era in the world, even if it is controversial for some. There's no breakthrough in Russia. Russia does not change its attitude and is successful from the point of view of its policy. A year ago in our club speech we emphasized that Polish foreign policy is to be a Polish policy, not a party policy. Unfortunately, we have not seen any evolution in this aspect, much less any revolution. Poland enters in 2017 without any new concept as regards foreign issues, of course, without any idea or vision, and the Minister does not indicate basic, especially new, instruments for conducting foreign policy. We are afraid that Polish foreign policy is based on passwords, and it is aimed at passwords where? To our Polish, mostly his electorate. It's slogans like subjectivity, knee rise, dignity, history. It is not known whether more in our foreign policy is romanticism and chaos or pragmatism and long-term implementation of the state's right. And why is that? Well, because the government, I'm afraid, is unable to specify what this Polish state right is, lacks a vision of the state right. This causes chaos, it causes uncertainty and current reactions only to events in the world. The Minister said Poland got up from its knees. Well, no one in the world noticed that. Even if she got out of her knees, it was very discreet and unnoticeable. And here I would ask for some examples which would indicate that Poland's role has increased over the last year, that Poland is starting to be a partner with whom others are important. Our supposedly strategic concept of the Intermarine, which refers to our romanticism in international relations, which is mainly realized by the President rather than by foreign ministers, does not seem to be realized because, despite the similarities of many countries in our part of Europe, the similarities in terms of development and social and economic relations, their interests and visions are so different that it is impossible to build a stable group that carries out common interests, because these interests are not really common. These countries see their relations with the European Union differently, each of them sees their relations with Russia differently and they have different priorities than Polish foreign policy and have different internal priorities. Poland is not a state of power to which even the smaller population or potentially... [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] Minister Trzaskowski is not interested. I understand. Kuluary...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u21	Mr Nitras, please do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u22	...they're over there. I was trying to maintain some level of culture and for the same... [[I'm sorry.]] ... I'd like to ask you. On the subject, the promotional concept of the Visegrad Group from the beginning was doomed to failure. You can't build a group, you can try to merge it on the basis of just one topic, a subject important, important, I mean, of course immigration. This is what we have in common, but there must be other elements that will allow us to have common interests. An alliance for one vote is just not enough, it doesn't work. Anyway, we can see it didn't work out. Our fear, our relationship, our experience with Russia - this is not shared, for example, by Prime Minister Orban. The unwillingness to accept refugees is shared, but there is not much to build on. In relations with Russia, we stand in the same place all the time. Here my previous speaker mentioned this, in his exposé a year ago, the Minister spoke very clearly about how it will revive, how the group will reactivate to difficult matters. And the opposite happened. After Professor Rotfeld resigned, this group simply ceased to exist. We talked about it a year ago, too. In a situation where we do not have and we cannot have normal relations with the Russian state - I mean the authorities on the Kremlin - let us try to build It's horizontal, in other stages, because we need it. In this way, we are able to influence the way we think about Poland in some way, so that Kremlin will notice that Poland is, however, a partner and not just a place to go. The elections in Germany, in which moderate Chancellor Merkel competes, burdened on us for the destabilisation of Europe related to immigrants, and very reluctant or even anti-Polish populist Schulz, are not a good prospect for us, given the recent survey results, the elections in France, in which the vision of a solution to the European Union with a vision of a closed club will compete, in which Poland is unlikely to be in Poland, because they do not want to, and I am not sure that we want - therefore this is not strategic planning, if not specifically... is unstable Europe. That's why I'm saying that 2017 will be so difficult, and we don't really know what we want, so we don't even know who to bet on right now. The emphasis in today's exposé, and this is probably several times, the recent visit of Mrs Merkel to Poland slightly misses the goal, because it was one of the next visits. Mrs Szydło was in Berlin, at least every year the Polish Prime Minister is in Berlin, the German Chancellor is in Poland. Nothing special happened. Therefore, treating this visit as a breakthrough as a new opening and great success of this government is simply a misunderstanding. The great success of this government is that the chancellor didn't leave too upset, and that's what we're very happy about. And a great success, I think, is that it happened... Here I'm different from the hysterical opposition's assessment of it. Ms Merkel's meeting with President Kaczyński was a good solution, because perhaps it was one thing to show that not everyone in Poland has horns, and on the other hand to show the President that the world is wide and does not end in Poland, that there are other countries and other ways of thinking behind the Oder. Minister Waszczykowski in his previous exposé, I mean this a year ago, and today he repeated it, announced the promotion of his own concept and his own vision of the European Union - a union of free nations and equal states. My question is: Is the Polish government Wherever did he present any idea of this vision? Did we start promoting her anywhere? Wherever did we start lobbying for other countries to understand and support it? At least I didn't notice anything like that. Unless it's in the locker room and it's just gonna pop out. But I don't think so, because the fact that the current government doesn't respect the cabinet is a result of the already mentioned disclosure of notes from previous authorities, notes from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is an anti-state action and in a normal country it would end in the Court of State. It is a pity that, for the purposes of our current internal political struggle, we use such tricks that are detrimental to our country. Also in matters of Ukraine, Poland is not a party to the European Union, nor to the US, nor to the affected parties, which, to be honest, is the result of the previous government's actions. However, we still do not see that the current government has any idea, and above all we do not see it react in a manner appropriate, appropriate to the new challenges - it is about increasingly loud anti-Polish, anti-neighbourly excesses in Ukraine from various kinds of extremely right-wing and nationalist groups and appealing to the ethos of murdering Poles, appealing to difficult history. We do not see any special actions that would help the Ukrainians to understand our sensitivity here. On the other hand, we allow the construction of our new statehood there. This is unacceptable and here we expect very clear, wise, reasonable, not hysterical actions of the government. As I mentioned earlier, the increase in the importance of Poland did not occur last year, at least it cannot be seen. Poland has become not strengthened in Europe over the past year, but has become condemned as a negative pattern of violations of law and standards, a questioned and tortured state, as if it were a candidate country, not a member of the European Union. And my question is, what was done to answer these charges? I admit that these are largely unfair, unfair and unfair allegations, but they are and are not seen any reasonable response from our authorities, nor is there a reaction on our internal issues, but not today. The Polish diplomacy of Minister Waszczykowski was completely helpless here, which caused Poland not to play in the European Union, is somewhere on the bench, perhaps on the bench of punishments, or will soon be on the bench of punishments, and we do not know where we stand, perhaps even outside the stadium. Where's the fight against stereotypes? In Europe, in the world, stereotypes that burden us as Poles, as a nation, and our country as a country, are quite common and no compact concept can be seen. It is good that private initiatives have emerged in the fight for the good name of Poland, but I would expect here an intelligent, sensible government concept which would support this work, as well as funds secured so that where necessary, private organisations can be supported so that they can even handle legal cases that are very, very expensive in many countries. Where's that historical diplomacy we were talking about? I don't see any historical diplomacy, more hysterical, but it's not diplomacy either. I was just talking about Ukraine. The Minister mentioned our efforts to join the Security Council. Probably in June, today everything points to this, it will happen, Poland will be an inconstant member of the Security Council. Well, well, it will certainly be rejected as a powerful success of Polish diplomacy, so I just wanted to say, Minister, what you know very well, that we are now, after Bulgaria's withdrawal, the only candidate, and if we do not mess up horribly by June, then we will be this persistent member of the Security Council. That is of course a good thing, but I would like and expect the Minister to tell us why. Because if we are there, I would like to know what we will do there, how we will take care of the interests not only of the world, but also of Poland, how this tool will be used, because it will be a new tool. I would at least like to know in a direction what our membership of this Council will enable us to achieve. And this is information perhaps also important for our policy in the second half of this year. The serious mistake our not even diplomacy has made, perhaps the government, is that our relations with France have reached an even hostile stage. I'm not talking about the speeches of politicians anymore, I'm not talking about the French press, which is very unpleasant for us, it's about the fact that France has started to ignore us with silence at the moment, it's turned its back and you can't see... And all this because, I suspect, the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Development, because we don't really know who decided... Perhaps the decision to cancel the contract was correct, we do not know, these are non-public matters, but the play was so fatal that I only hope that Minister Waszczykowski did not participate in this, because it would be an example of the fact that his competence should be questioned. So that I would like to hear clear answers from the Minister here: no, it's not me, it's someone else. Perhaps he'll even tell us who. As I say, I am not referring to the substantive question whether the decision to leave this contract was right or wrong, because we do not have the right knowledge, but if someone thought it was right, it had to be done in a way that was accepted in civilized countries, and that is what we would like to think. In relations with the United States too, we believe, there has been a total misunderstanding. During the election campaign, the statements of members of our government, already quoted here, about the elections between the plague and cholera, the fact that our diplomacy did not have any contacts, I fear that there are still no contacts in Trump's surroundings, the more that Polonia mostly supported Trump, and it was not so difficult because Trump was the only candidate to meet with Polonia, and this hasn't happened in years... No one in our MFA noticed this, it was not decided to make contact with those responsible for this area of relations in Trump's crew, and now it's much harder to make up for it when he's president. If you had a relationship with a candidate, it would have been a lot easier. Time's running out, and we still have a few... Excuse me, so we're gonna cut it all short. High Izbo! In Poland we do not have a compact concept of foreign policy. There are some positives this past year, and my colleagues will tell you about it, and I hope that the next year will be an opportunity for some kind of retreat and a common, cross-party, state approach to foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u23	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Petru. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The absence of the Foreign Minister during this debate perfectly shows the importance it attaches to the debate on foreign policy... [[He went to Madera.]] [[San Escobar.]] ...and I guess they treat it the same way...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u25	Excuse me, sir, if you don't mind, I would like to convey the information. The Irish Prime Minister's visit is currently underway. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is accompanied by the Prime Minister, so that it is not intended to leave the Sejm and very... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: The Sejm is not valid.]] [[Voice from the hall: You should have done this meeting this afternoon.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Member, please... I felt obliged to give this information to the High House. Excuse me, sir, and this is your vote. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u26	I would like to say that the Minister had a press conference recently during the debate. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the first tasks of the future government will be to rebuild Poland's position in Europe as a country which is serious, predictable, which the European Union treats as a joint project and joint investment, not as a threat to national sovereignty. Over the past year, foreign policy implemented by Minister Waszczykowski has been a series of strategic mistakes and diplomatic gafs. [[Look who's talking.]] Foreign policy is being built at home, so it is hard to expect that weakening Polish democracy, ruining the Polish economy, non-compliance with fundamental principles of law can be strong arguments to promote Poland abroad. However, before I proceed to the evaluation of the last year and the evaluation of the Foreign Minister, two words need to be said about the challenges of the modern world. Today, at the beginning of 2017, the international situation is much more difficult than last year. Brexit - this year talks about Britain's exit from the European Union will begin. This process, of course, weakens the United Kingdom above all, as can be seen from the evaluation of the pound, but also from the European Union and thus Poland. It even weakens the fact that the European Union must concentrate on itself instead of thinking about development. Secondly, the process significantly weakens the Union politically and economically. It is now difficult to predict what the final outcome of the negotiations will be, but many points to the so-called. Hard Brexit, whose victim will be the flow not only of goods and services, but also of people. What this entails is that there is a serious risk of a significant deterioration of the conditions for our citizens who are now living in the Islands. The PiS government has not only taken such a scenario into account - it has to be admitted - it is still poorly engaged at this point in defending our fellow countrymen in the Islands. During her last visit to London, Prime Minister Szydło said that strategic relations with Great Britain had to be deepened. She said it like nothing's changed at all. Our citizens' rights must be sought through the European Union. It will be difficult to do this when the Polish position in the European Union is weaker and weaker. Point two: the new President of the United States. As a NATO flank country and a member of the European Union, we may be concerned. For the first time in post-war history we have the President of the United States, who openly undermines the value of European integration, the role of NATO, and praises Brexit. Germany sees as a harmful hegemon and unfortunately melts over the advantages of President Putin. Thirdly, the European Union is surrounded by an arch of instability - in the east and south of its borders. Her ability to influence this situation is limited. The fight against ISIS, the management of the migration crisis or the effective response to Russia's policies require extraordinary coordination, which is becoming increasingly difficult. The Union will have a difficult election year. We have elections in Holland, France, Germany, and perhaps in Italy. In this atmosphere we will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome. We will have to re-prove why the European Union was worth the Nobel Peace Prize and why for us, Poles and Europeans, this is the best thing that could happen to us. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, we are now entering the world into an era of protectionism, nationalism and perhaps isolationism. The environment of Polish foreign policy has radically changed. At this point, the United States is no longer a promoter of the liberal world order, which was so beneficial for the European Union and Poland. It is important to be aware that this is really the hardest moment for Polish foreign policy since 1989. Foreign policy requires smart, thoughtful and strategic movements. In the short term, however, the PiS government has lost the unique opportunity for Poland to play an important role in international policy to be a source of stability and not a source of trouble. Polish foreign policy ended in 2016 with a failure. A year ago, from this speaker, the PiS government announced that Britain would be our main ally in the European Union. As we know, the United Kingdom is leaving the Union. The PiS government did not only argue with us through irresponsible statements by PiS politicians and Germans, yet, breaking the tender on helicopters without giving a reason, ruined our relationship with France. Naturally, the question arises: Who, ladies and gentlemen, is our ally? Who are you talking to about the most important alliances for us? With whom do we negotiate the most important matters for us? The government of PiS is currently not asked about Poland's opinion on the most important issues in the Union. It would ask Poland to promote closer cooperation in European security and defence policy with Germany, France, Spain and Italy. But in order to do that, you have to show any initiative and have confidence in other partners, and the PiS completely squandered that trust. Today, the PiS doesn't trust anyone, but nobody trusts the PiS anymore. The most frivolous thing is that the PiS invents concepts that will never happen. In between the sea, ladies and gentlemen, this is an ancient concept. And there's no such thing as identity. Visegrad Group. This is best shown by the Prime Minister Orbán, a close associate and colleague of Jarosław Kaczyński, who meets Putin. [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Why is Angela Merkel coming?]] Visegrad may be a good platform for policy coordination in the European Union, but not an alternative of the European Union. Point five: please, the Polish government does not support our countryman for such an important position as the head of the European Council. [[We know him.]] That's the worst anti-advertisement we can do to ourselves. Poland as the only country in the European Union is against Donald Tusk's candidacy for this position. That's petty, and that's, ladies and gentlemen, an encapsulation. The weakness of your policy is also the childish belief in the possibility of having a bilateral relationship with Donald Trump's administration. Maybe we'll get some carrots to start with, like. they will drop the dialogue on the state of democracy in Poland, but at the first opportunity we will pay the price. In relations with Moscow, Donald Trump will not consider the Polish position. Polish voice in relations with Moscow can only be heard if it is strong within the European Union, and with the rate of degradation of Polish foreign policy on the most important issues we can soon be without real allies. Today you can see a total failure to recover the wreckage of the tupole, which was promised by the politicians of PiS before the elections. In the election campaign of the then candidate Andrzej Duda said: it is a question of Polish diplomacy procedures that we should receive this property, as well as basic evidence in this case. Polish diplomacy must change. PiS politician Joachim Brudziński claimed that bringing in the wreckage would be possible - I quote - when the helm of power will be taken over by people who will not walk, as it has been for the last 5 years, on Putin's belt. Which means they're still walking, because the wreckage, as far as I know, wasn't brought in. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, power has changed, diplomacy has changed, you have promised and you haven't done it. No one trusts you, and no one trusts the PiS who runs this foreign policy. PiS fulfilled his election promise: he led Poland out of the mainstream of the European Union. Sarcastically, you have fulfilled your foreign policy objectives 100%. The sad summary of 2016 is that Poland has been criticised by all major international institutions and organisations: the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Commissioner for Human Rights, the Venice Commission, the UN Human Rights Council. Even the President of the United States Barack Obama at the NATO summit, which Poland hosted, also criticized us. This situation has never happened in the history of free Poland. [[Right.]] The UK is moving out of the Union, but the PiS government is moving the Union out of Poland. You view the European institutions as an enemy. All you can do is block and criticize. You do not understand that on a weak Union, based mainly on government cooperation, countries such as Poland lose the most. PiS does not want to participate in major European projects. He says - flexible solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't understand the word "solidarity." It's either flexible or solidarity. Such a concept is harmful to the Polish state. This is a hit on the cohesion of the European Union and a hit on the whole integration process. PiS doesn't really understand that it stabilizes the division between the center and the periphery. But to be clear, ladies and gentlemen, we are in danger of being divided into three leagues in the European Union. The first will be strong euro area countries, the second will be weaker, and the third will be Poland, perhaps with Hungary. London will no longer protect the interests of a non-euro area country in the Union. That's why... [[Who told you that?]] ...I again call on the government to engage with the opposition on preparing Poland for membership in the euro area. Today, when the credibility of the transatlantic alliance can be questioned, one of the biggest threats to Poland's security is the Minister of National Defence. I fear for the state of the Polish army after Macierewicz. The most talented and educated people leave because they know who they came to work with. I don't believe what a man who, for certain reasons, can end an important contract. A man who publicly proves that Russia buys mistrals through Egypt. In addition, he is a priest of the Smolensk sect. I don't want to talk much about Minister Waszczykowski. He has been the worst foreign minister since 1989. He's notoriously confusing journalistic journalism with diplomacy. If he says anything, he'll compromise Poland and himself in the international arena. He is a man who, in the name of private revenge, can make public the important strategic documents of his predecessor. Poland, ladies and gentlemen, you don't need WikiLeaks, just Waszczykowski. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I believe that there is nothing more to discuss about what kind of minister he is. Ladies and gentlemen, the real question is what should be the vision of Polish foreign policy. First of all, we must share responsibility for Europe. The Union is in crisis, but this is the crisis of the Member States, the crisis of will and willingness to cooperate. Poland is a country that should understand best what ends in a lack of cooperation. It ends with the dominion of the strongest. It'll be to the detriment of our business. That is why we have the opportunity to co-author new, better solutions, common solutions. The partial return of competences from the Union to the Member States, advocated by the PiS, is a harmful idea and condemns us on the periphery. The UK's exit, the problems of France, Spain or Italy and the unpredictable future US policy brings us to one thesis - today Poland has a unique opportunity to become a co-archer of a new Europe, and we do not use it. We can play a much bigger role than our economic strength can say. We just have an amazing geopolitical position and we need to learn from it. We have weak Italy, weak Spain and Great Britain coming out of the European Union, we should be very strong in the Weimar Triangle. But we need predictable, consensus-based policies and stable economic growth. That's what your government doesn't give us. The opportunities offered by the European Union, both economic and political, must also be exploited. For example, we should promote the liberalisation of the services market, which will stimulate economic growth in Europe. Or the market for online services, which is huge, and it is untapped potential. We should therefore also fight protectionism, which is unfortunately gaining popularity. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that we must be a member of the euro area. At this point in time, when the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union, 90% EU GDP is the euro area. Over 1/4 of our exports go to Germany. The euro is one of the strongest currencies in the world. We can't be blind to this reality. We also need a strong European pillar of NATO. The commitment of the US is a pillar of our security, but also Europe's strategic autonomy becomes a necessity. We can't just base. In one-sided relations with Americans. Europe must also be open to the East. In the interest of Poland, a wide transformation of this region towards democracy and a market economy remains possible. Only in this way will we achieve stability at the Polish borders. In this sense, the doctrine of Giedroycia is still in force. We need to do everything at the level of Polish foreign policy and what we do as a Union and NATO, so that the countries of Eastern Europe can choose the way they want to go on their own. The Union must be more assertive and confident in order for this project of peaceful integration of the continent to be implemented. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, these big plans that I was just talking about have no chance of being implemented under the PiS. Not just because you don't have people who can pursue this policy. First of all, because PiS does not understand the challenges of the modern world. You live within such a concept as if it were the 19th century or maybe the beginning of the 20th century. Poland under the rule of the PiS becomes more and more lonely and every year will be worse. In fact, you are condemning us to Poland without an alliance. This is the worst possible vision for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u27	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS wants to reform the European Union and is unable to coordinate foreign visits with a debate on Polish foreign policy. [[Applause]] This shows the ability and vision of the current government. You are not able to guarantee the fundamental things, and not the Members, but the sovereign, because all opposition clubs also represent the sovereign, and each member is represented to the same extent as the government majority. When the Minister gave his speech, he devoted a lot of space to security issues, but forgot the foundations on which Polish security is built - the foundations on which the security of every nation is built. It's not just a strong army or an alliance. Both - this is what history teaches us - fails; our alliances after and during World War II did not lead to Poland being protected from invasion from the West or from the East. The most important fundamental issue of state security is the building of a national community. You've talked a lot about this community during the election campaign, but since the election victory, you've been doing everything you can to make sure this community doesn't exist. You still share Poland and Poles, and the foundation of security, which is the national community... And this also shows us history, because the partitions did not take place only by the military weakness of Poland or by the size of those who committed the partitions, but above all by inequalities and social divisions. Interwar Poland was also affected by social inequalities, especially between villagers and city dwellers, it was haunted by the tragic crime of the 1926 May bombing and the political divisions that caused the September disaster that led to it. So the fundamental foundation of state security is the national community and it needs to be rebuilt, brotherhood needs to be restored in Poland so that we can be a safe country in Europe and in the world. [[Applause]] Energy security is also one of the foundations, and the Minister has given him very little space. We do not agree as people on Nord Stream 2, we do not agree to reject renewable energy technologies. Besides, in his speech, the Minister talks about the promotion of green technologies in other countries; we are a little unbelievable in this, because in Poland we ban the use of renewable energy. Energy security and the betting on renewable energy is an action that offers an opportunity to become independent of Gazprom. So often you talk about contacts with the East or about their absence, you talk about the challenges Poland should face in order to become energy independent, and by eliminating Poland's energy security through the decommissioning of RES, you do not lead to this. President Schetyna, emphasizing and evaluating the previous exposé, rightly said that in his predictions it did not work at almost any point. Okay, Mr. Chairman, but at least there were some predictions. There are no visions, no predictions, no hope of a better tomorrow for Poland in a united Europe in today's colourless, nasty exposé. In fact, if we want to look for Polish allies, first in the European Union, the UK mentioned many times by all previous speakers does not guarantee a stable and strong position of Poland in the European Union and we need to take care of Poles in the British Isles, we need to encourage them to return. Notabene I would like to know how many Poles have returned from Britain since the good change? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Moravian Plan!]] Because you promised right away that everyone would start coming back as soon as the power changed. You can't see any boom of migratory Poles from the Islands to Poland. We need to strengthen our alliances. Visegrad Group, repeatedly mentioned... But are the Czechs who, together with the Slovaks, strengthen their agreements with Austria and Germany, or Hungarians and Viktor Orbán, who reject Polish courtship and choose a friendship with Putin, or do we have only common interests there? Where is Poland's strength today? What countries do we have permanent alliances with? You haven't mentioned anything about southern European countries, Italy, Spain, France. It is difficult to talk about relations today and not only because of the statements of the Vice-Ministers; it is hardly surprising that they dared to speak so drasticly about France, since Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, in relation to our greatest ally, our security anchor - the United States - during the election campaign he spoke about candidates for the President of the United States, who compared them to the heavy, deadly diseases that cause... I don't think this comparison will be indifferent... [[What comparison?]] [[Voice from the hall: Plague.]] ...for Polish-American relations. He compared them to the plague and damn it, and he expressed it during the election. [[Exactly.]] It was visionary, Mr PiS government, who was tempted to anticipate the future, and today we will work with the president as defined by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government. Alliances are needed and not with countries in the Caribbean whose names are not even remembered, because Mr Długi rightly pointed out that our place in the Security Council The UN is almost doomed after the withdrawal of Bulgaria. They cannot be relied upon, and not only is it a language error that the Minister has committed; he really is not funny. The point is that the main partner, the strategic partner of Poland - a country that wants to be the leader of the region or the leader of Europe - becomes a country in the Caribbean, whose name the Minister of Foreign Affairs cannot even name. This is a fundamental problem with our foreign policy. You haven't touched the Minister, and you haven't mentioned the harmful, fatal ceta agreement, the free trade agreement with Canada. Are you ashamed that you fooled the sovereign? A year ago you promised to strengthen the role of national parliaments, that first decisions in national parliaments and then decisions in the European forum, and here quietly consent to CETA, consent to GMOs, to genetically modified apples and fish. This is your answer to Polish sovereignty. There is no strengthening of Polish sovereignty. If we are already talking about food products, about Polish healthy, good food, there was not enough room for it in Minister Waszczykowski's speech, and this is the national treasure, the national brand of Poland recognizable all over the world. I wonder what will be the opinion on the Free Trade Agreement with the United States. These negotiations are ongoing. A debate is needed. This is what we are asking for, a serious debate in the Polish Parliament, not to resort only to declarations of sovereignty and later not to implement them. It's a matter of contact with the East. It is good that there is another relationship with Belarus, which we have always encouraged, but in the face of the failure of economic sanctions imposed on Russia, it is necessary to bring about the abolition of the Russian embargo on Polish products. For the sake of Polish families, entrepreneurs and farmers, trade relations must be resumed. We need to start by reopening trade relations with the Kaliningrad circuit. The suspension of a small border traffic doesn't serve anyone. He was to be suspended only during World Youth Days, but the suspension was extended and continues until today. Warmińsko-Mazurskie and Pomorskie Voivodships suffer from this very much. The second step is to resume economic relations with Russia. Almost all European countries, especially Visegrad Group allies, are already talking about this. It is worth listening to this voice and holding a debate. We will pass a resolution calling on the Polish government to bring about the abolition of the Russian embargo on Polish products. We fully agree with the fight against the lying of history, the lying of historical facts, but we must not change this story within Poland. In order to defend it outside, you must remember it and not trample on the past altars, although you want to rise better yourself. And you owe them a hello. These are the words of Adam Asnyk, the poet of unethical times. The Minister used the Chinese proverb, I also recommend to him this poem to remember that the history of Poland was complex and difficult, but must be based on one principle, on the principle of truth, not on the principle of wit and what is useful to you today. [[Applause]] Finally, about migration. There was a reference to World Youth Days, which was undoubtedly a great, wonderful event for all of us, I think. In addition to religious significance, the promotion of Poland in the world was huge. I would like to remind you of the slogan of the World Youth Days: blessed are the merciful who will receive mercy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in the context of migration, it is worth recalling what other nations did for Polish orphans during World War II, what the Indian Maharaja did, accepting 5,000. children to India who were orphans left in the Soviet Union because they lost their parents. Take this good example. These people, our compatriots, they're alive. About a hundred Maharaja children, because they are so often referred to as whether the Polish Indians, as they say about themselves, live, 20 lives in Poland. Take this good example. Let's respond to the migration crisis. Let us not accept healthy men, they are able to fight for their country, and that is what they should do, but to orphans in the face of the tragedy of the breakdown of the family, in the face of war, in the face of fear and danger, we must have mercy, mercy from those who live better, and our lives are incomparably on a higher plane. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u29	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u31	And please take the floor of Mr Stefan Niesiołowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This speech by the Minister would say yes, in short, that where it was real, it was banal, and where it wasn't banal, it wasn't real. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This whole diagnosis is false. The Minister allows himself such terms: no more Yalta, no more Munich. That's right, that's what President Bush said in Warsaw in the context of a certain remorse of the United States' conscience, but no one is saying today that Munich or Yalta should be. From what Mr.Waszczykowski was kind to say, I can see that he does not like golf very much and that Poland enjoys a large author. Congratulations, Minister. In general, I would say this: you have a good chance of being the most incompetent minister in this government, and here competition is very strong, I must say, you must hold on. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You go head-to-head with a lot of intellect, will and deed like Mr. Gliński, like Mr. Jurgiel... [[Macierevich.]] ...like Mr. Błaszczak, so I congratulate you very much. For the time being, you're gonna hold on and continue everything you're doing, and you're gonna hold on in the first place on this list. You're reaching for some globalism. Of course, I don't have time to develop it. I'm very glad you spoke relatively carefully about South America. I think I know the reasons for this moderation. [[Joy in the Chamber]] On the other hand, your claim that 2016 was a good year for Poland, I am most sorry, is absolute nonsense. Here you go, events for Poland - tragic, so to speak, it may be too strong a word, but extremely dangerous - it is Brexit, it is the choice of Mr Trump in the United States, it is finally very close to our borders a wave of populism and nationalism, from which PiS is not free, which PiS often supports and in which PiS sees, for unknowingly reasons, its political blindness, in the internal struggle of some ally. Nationalism is not a Polish ally. There is no alternative to the European Union. This is the basic message that the Union of European Democrats is making. The PiS policy is in fact - because it was not about what the Minister said here, but also about what the Minister did - anti-EU, anti-European policy. Putting this policy into the whole rhetoric of the PiS is a big mistake. There is no alternative to further integration. Any claims about any national interests contrary to the Union are, generally speaking, false, harmful to Poland and show that it is a dangerous policy, evil and for obvious reasons which were given here, also immoral. In the end, I would say this - because unlike Mr.Waszczykowski I respect time - paraphrasing Henryk Sienkiewicz: end the vase, the shame save. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u33	Please take the floor of Mr Cornel Morawiecki. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u34	We are heirs of the great past. We, Poles, but we, Members, are heirs of what is in our history, but also in our newest reality we have changed in the world. It is World War II, it is Solidarity. It all shaped the reality of this world. The debate within which we are talking, the debate about our place in the world, in Europe, must address what we can do and what we should do. The Minister rightly wrote, rightly said that now the international order of the world is changing, it is happening in front of our eyes, and that new, far-sighted solutions await us. But let's look at some really new, far-sighted solutions. I can't see them yet. I don't see them in government policy or opposition policy. Poland is obliged to be the centre of Europe, because it is at this centre, it is obliged to connect Europe, connect the East with the West. This is our big, historic task. This task we did for the First Republic, this task we did to some extent for Solidarity - because our solutions came in handy for the whole world, the whole of Europe - and this task is our responsibility for today. This must be Europe from the Atlantic to the Pacific, a Europe in which culture has grown out of Christianity is the basis of human relations, because this Europe, the great Europe of our fathers and fore-fathers, has given the world and everything: it has taught us, has given us education, has given us politics, has given us democracy, has given us freedom, has given us relations between people who are in a relationship of love, which translates into a relationship of solidarity between human groups and between nations. This is the kind of Europe we should want, that is the kind of Europe we should want. The efforts of our foreign policy should go in this direction because the world is really changing. But the biggest threat to the world, such a real threat, and to Poland is a civilization conflict, a nuclear conflict between players of this world who want to control it. Here new forces are growing: China grows, India grows, Africa wakes up. These are completely new challenges for generations. We do not participate - spiritually, mentally - in this game, in this need, which stands before humanity. This is the need to save humanity, our civilization, because this is the most important thing. Poland must defend itself, but also defend others, and be a certain binder, such a central place - in which we are - because this is an excellent place. We can be such a birth, such a beginning of a great European, Euro-Asian continent, a great civilization that will stabilise the world, will develop according to the new rules. These rules of law are very important, justice - even more important, justice is even more important than the law, but the rules that we should really follow, which should be our ideal, are the rules of freedom and solidarity. I would like us to conduct foreign policy within this framework so that we can understand our national need within this framework. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u35	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Isabella Kloc.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although I would very much like to, nevertheless I will not be tempted, I will not refer to the various trips of our colleagues from the opposition. I think they're living in some kind of virtual reality. Therefore, in your speech, you will allow the Minister and the High Chamber to address very specific issues concerning Poland's membership of the European Union and our priorities in EU policy. The Minister stressed that the biggest political challenge for Poland and the European Union in the coming months will be to seek solutions to reform the Union, which will reconcile both national and wider European interests. We are witnessing an increase in distrust, challenging the European Union's acquis in many EU countries. This has shown, for example, the British referendum. We have also heard that deep reforms of the European Union are needed in the government's assessment. In our view, we must reaffirm the main principle of the functioning of the Union that the Member States and their citizens are the drivers of action. The European institutions should play their supporting role in line with the principle of subsidiarity, should pursue the political priorities agreed by the Member States and not impose their own, often typically ideological ones. It is therefore necessary to renew the European Union as an organisation bringing together sovereign national states. And so, in the institutional context, in the debate on the future shape of the Union, we should address both the issue of the institutions and the policy area that the European Union is dealing with. The issue of the European Council. The Council is a democratic body and should therefore exercise the Treaty mandate to give the European Union development impetus, direction and priorities. It is the conclusions of the European Council that must be the framework for action for the other institutions of the Union. Unfortunately, they are very often not respected by the European Commission in concrete legal solutions, and the Commission should, in accordance with the Treaties, perform coordination, enforcement and management functions. Meanwhile, what is the Commission and its President doing? They are overly politicized, focused on their own functioning, as the Minister stressed, do not care about the welfare of society, but implement the ideological plans of the European elite. So, speaking of the future of the Union, we should not avoid a debate about treaty changes, deeper changes. In my opinion, Poland can make many constructive proposals and bring them in. There is a question of national Parliaments, for example. Their importance has been growing gradually for years, but their role is still unsatisfactory. We have here, for example, an example of treaty tools such as a yellow card. It seems that the position of national Parliaments should be strong and stable and that they should also have a very concrete impact on legislative arrangements for the EU institutions. Unfortunately, the early warning mechanism is treated by the European elite, the European Commission, in an unsatisfactory way. On the one hand, institutional architecture, on the other hand, tailoring the EU agenda to the real needs of the Member States and their citizens. This often happens, such as in Bratislava, where the main areas designated are: migration, security, economy, also recognised in a broader context such as globalisation, transatlantic relations or changing geopolitical conditions. The main challenge for Europe today seems to be security. We have an unstable situation, conflicts in our neighbourhood, a migration crisis, and finally a European Union-Russia relationship, a terrorist threat. I would like to draw particular attention to the very serious security crisis, which is linked to two borders - and the one from the south, and the one from the east. It is important that both sources of threats to European security are recognised and assessed jointly and that positions reflect different conditions. High Izbo! Another aspect of the relationship is the European Union's policy towards Russia. We believe that the introduction of EU sanctions against Russia is the result of Moscow's policy that violates international law. This requires a position of full maintenance, a lack of absolute consent to the abolition of sanctions. The Brexit issue. I think Deepbock's friend is gonna talk about it. I just wanted to say that the emphasis should be placed on the negotiation process, on building relations, on close cooperation with London, but this should in no case mean special solutions that would make Britain the only country outside the Union that will have a privileged position vis-à-vis the common market or the Union itself. Another issue is the relationship between the European Union and the United States. They should remain in the vital interest of both parties. Maybe it is still too early today to finally talk about the shape of the US foreign policy, but the European Union should send a clear signal that transatlantic cooperation will remain one of the pillars of its foreign policy. We have also heard about this from the Minister. High Izbo! When it comes to security - this is an extremely important issue for the European Union - internal security and, as part of this, security of energy supply. And here I would like to draw my attention to the winter package, which was published on 30 November by the European Commission, clean energy for all Europeans. From the point of view of Poland, the most important provisions contained in this package refer to the power market guidelines and the work on the national energy and climate plan for 2021/2030. Unfortunately, among the proposals that the European Commission has put forward, we are most concerned about the proposed rules on support mechanisms in the form of a power market that favour gas and eliminate coal-based technologies. For Poland, for Polish energy security these solutions are unacceptable. After all, we have the opportunity to take into account the increase in the efficiency of the coal installation, including the use of various clean coal combustion technologies. Indeed, there is also a need for diplomacy on the part of the parliament. We count on understanding, and ask for this understanding, uniqueness, peculiarities of Polish energy policy, [[Applause]] which is mainly based on coal. For my part, as a Silesian, I also ask for the support of the entire High House. Further, further problems, issues relating to the economic agenda. The common market translates into real benefits for citizens. This should therefore continue and pay particular attention to the importance of the services and industry sector in order to increase the competitiveness, sustainable development of the European Union, to bridge social inequalities in the European Union. We expect rapid action to strengthen the modernisation of the industrial base of the single market. Finally, the Minister paid much attention to the requirements of the digital revolution. Obstacles to the free movement of data within the European Union must be removed as soon as possible. At the same time, our strategic call is to ensure a level playing field in the European digital market. This is very important to our citizens. Finally, the service package, the reduction of administrative barriers for entrepreneurs, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's also an important element. But they will also be reportedly, as the Maltese Presidency has announced, to work on a controversial document for Poland, a proposal to amend the directive on the posting of workers within the framework of freedom to provide services. The Commission is not yet touched here today. I sincerely hope that the countries of the European Union will understand the situation of those countries which have, however, issued a yellow card. The issue of reform of emissions trading. Poland will consistently stress the specificities of its fuel situation with the dominant role of coal and the need to adopt a special approach to reducing emissions for our country, for Poland. And finally, migration policy. I do not want to go into detail either, but I would like to say for my part, because in the Committee on European Affairs, we very often say that Poland should continue to uphold its opposition to any solutions based on the compulsory allocation of refugees. And, High Izbo, at the end, the policy objectives on membership issues are ambitious, but we must not forget that we are not pursuing them ourselves. At both government and parliamentary level - I can testify to this and my committee also - we work together within the Visegrad Group, widely defined countries of Central and Eastern Europe, the group of Baltic States, the Tri-Morch project, or - as you said yesterday at the meeting of the Committee - the triangle of the eastern flank with Turkey and Romania. We know we can do more together. However, this cooperation, which I particularly stress, is aimed at strengthening the European Union. Unfortunately, the opposition sometimes does not want to understand our intentions. After all, we all ultimately want - that is our hope - a Union based on the principle: equal with equals and free from freedom. The implementation of this principle will be ensured by the idea of solidarity-based states in the European Union, of which Poland is a strong advocate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And I apologize for my vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u37	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Rafał Trzaskowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The previous exposé was only relevant for the pessimistic vision of threats, while - sadly - it was completely wrong, when it comes to recipes, propaganda and buńchuczne. Unfortunately, our pessimistic expectations have come true. This is a wasted year for Polish diplomacy, a year that leads to self-insulation. You say that important European politicians come to Warsaw, that you go to Brussels. It's true. The only problem is that you don't have anything meaningful to say to them. No initiative, no positive initiative of this government in foreign policy can be seen. You hide your head in the sand when the most important, most difficult problems of the European Union arise. You are banging your fists on the table here in Warsaw, while you are silent in the living rooms in Brussels. You're saying in your exposé today that instead of standing on the sidelines and cheering, you're in the game. I'm the only one asking, "Where'd you get into this game? Or Alexander Lukashenka's palace? Because you can't be seen anywhere else. You can't see any assertive politics, but you did. Where are your initiatives, e.g. in European politics? Where did you really propose something new besides the truisms? Mrs Gosievska spoke about the fact that we are talking to our partners. That's right, we're talking. The problem is that you and your partners in the European Union don't seem to be talking enough. You have nothing constructive to propose. You can only hear and only hear your thunderbolt, except for one area, beyond security, where you continue our policy, strengthening the eastern NATO flank, and that is the only issue, the only area where you can be commended. We were hoping, really, everyone in the opposition here was hoping that after a year of reflection you would pull out of this policy. Unfortunately, it's in vain. What is the balance of this policy? Marginalisation in Europe, poor choice of strategic partners. Everyone's already talked about it. Even Visegrad is sick of this government of law and justice. Czechs, Slovaks regret that they must cooperate with you. Completely anachronistic visions. You can't really take this seriously today, in the 21st century, how you're talking about Międzymorz, about the Tri-marriage, about some nine Bucharest. Of course, I have respect for the 9th Bucharest, but this cannot be replaced by the first European league, even the Weimar Triangle cannot be replaced. What are you building politics on? You build foreign policy on emotions, prejudices and complexes. After all, let us take a look at the most important issue or one of the most important issues that we are now facing, namely the question of strengthening the President of the European Council, the election of the President of the European Council for the second term. What are you doing? After all, it's so unprofessional that you can't explain it normally if someone didn't just go back to emotions, prejudices and complexes. How do you explain to Poles that a French socialist would be better at this position, that he would represent Polish sensitivity better than Donald Tusk? And the worst part is that your policy is completely unpredictable. Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister Waszczykowski, Mrs Gosievska spoke about how important China is to you. You were talking about this important silk trail initiative. So? It turns out that Minister Macierewicz torpedoes all Chinese investments, the most important ones, concerning the silk route, which was the biggest acquisition of the Polish government and the Łódź government. How do I take you guys seriously? As far as the European Union is concerned, you are announcing reforms. I'd like to hear from you about the reforms. Do you really want to reduce the European Union to only four freedoms? What do you want to do with the institutions? How do you want to change them? Or, as Professor Legutko says, is there any way to keep the Commission in check? This is completely ridiculous. Prof. Legutko announces that you want to liquidate the office of permanent President of the European Council at all. On the one hand, you want to strengthen the Member States, and here you want to liquidate this office. This is completely ridiculous. Who do you want to make these treaty changes with? How are you going to defend the budget if you're talking about flexible solidarity? I'm afraid you're gonna lose every major European battle. And that's what we're gonna settle for, because today I want to ask very simple questions and next year, I want answers in two. Will you really strengthen the single market and there be greater liberalisation? Will you not allow for difficult solutions when it comes to posting workers? Will there be better solutions for climate policy or will you fight them? Because so far there are scandalous solutions because no one listens to you. More, the European Commission, which I regret, wants to make you angry. Can you fight better solutions in climate policy? Will you not lose one euro of the money that was negotiated by the Polish government? Will you be able to negotiate a reasonable next budget? Because everyone already announces that they will not take you seriously in this case, which I regret again. Are you sure there won't be Nord Stream? Will you engage in a case concerning what is happening east of Poland, in a better, more effective way? Finally, are you sure you will not allow the fragmentation of the European Union? Promise us that. We'll settle it for you. [[Applause]] Stop talking about truism, about clichés, just talk about concrete. Finally, Mr. Minister, it turns out he has a fondness for Chinese proverbs. He was quoting: a man who says that it cannot be done should not interfere. We will not promise this, not in the sense of disturbing, but we will make it clear how you are destroying Polish foreign policy. I have a Chinese proverb for you, too: it's dangerous to think, not learn. Don't go in denial. Try to learn from your mistakes, learn from your own infirmities. And one of the most important demands: do not build foreign policy on important, proud, strong European state on emotions, prejudices and complexes. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u39	Minister of National Defence, Minister Antoni Macierewicz, asked for the floor. You're welcome. [[The Minister represents the government in the debate?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not want to refer to the whole of this debate, and especially to the statements of representatives of the Civic Platform during this debate, to the statements of people who have been responsible for the destruction of the Polish name on the international stage for many years and the destruction of Polish opportunities in the international arena. [[Misiewicz.]] There's one thing I'd like to refer to. Namely, I would like to refer to not even false, but resulting from the absolute incompetence of the statement which we have just heard, Mr.Trzaskowski, because I assume it was incompetence, not lying and evil will. [[Get to the point.]] Namely, what was defined as an act interfering with the implementation of the silk trail by the Minister of National Defence was that all efforts are being made to ensure that the dry port to be located in Łódź is at the disposal of a company with most of the Treasury, not people with an unknown conduite. That's what this is all about. This situation makes more sense. The Civic Platform constantly strives to ensure that the interests of foreign countries and other enterprises, not the Treasury, are carried out in projects between Poland and external entities. And I would very much ask that these people from the Civic Platform, who talk about foreign policy, be concerned with the interests of the Polish people, not about the unknown conduite. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u41	Thank you. Mr President, I hope that this will be a corrigendum, not a polemic. [[Corrigendum.]] Here you go, one minute to corrigendum. [[What was that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u42	Corrigendum, or rather, the question which is based on the correction. [[Voice from the room: corrected or question?]] Minister, I have a very simple question because you're talking about lies or incompetence. Do you guarantee that Chengdu-Łódź investment will be carried out? Is it true, because maybe I have bad information that the Chinese are retreating and that your actions are really going to lead to the fact that these investments aren't going to happen? Because what else is a security check, and what else is a behavior that will lead to the fact that this extremely important Chinese investment in Łódź will not be. So this is a simple question: Will it be or will it not, and will your actions, checking and guaranteeing only Polish business result in this because it is about style, and from this style you are known that the Chinese will withdraw from Poland with this investment?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u43	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, you see, they can. If they want to, they can. It would be better if you started with that. From the question, not the lie. [[But answer me.]] Not from accusing me of blocking, but from asking what the Minister of National Defence really did for the security of the Polish state in this matter. [[Let Mr. Misiewicz teach culture, not us.]] Then it would be possible for us to have a conversation. The answer to your question is as follows. Always if the security of the Polish state is guaranteed... [[Voice from the room: There will be no.]] ...we're not only interested, but we're deeply interested. We will do everything to ensure that this dry port in Poland is, because we are as a state, responsible for the welfare of the Polish state, vitally interested in this project. [[Will he or won't he?]] Therefore, I will do everything to ensure that the security of the Polish state is guaranteed there and that this undertaking... [[Voice from the room: So there won't be.]] ...was completed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u45	Thank you. Before I ask the next Member to speak, my very warm and cordial request to President Schetin. While you were taking the floor from the Seym... [[Voice from the room: Exactly, bravo!]] ... You have called on Members, and rightly so, the government's majority, to give you a cultural opportunity to speak. I would have a huge request that the Prime Minister in the shadows' office, President Schetyna, appeal to his Vice-Ministers of Foreign Affairs in the shadows' office to preserve elementary culture and order in the Seym. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would be very grateful to you. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[It hurts.]] And please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My previous speaker at the Kukiz Poselski Club15 Grzegorz Długi has already spoken a lot about foreign policy. As in addition to this very good statement, I would like to point out and stress what was generally visible, which has not worked in the Ministry for the past year. There was no sign of diplomatic background. We've seen defenses of the old system, old officials, old diplomats, who haven't actually been mentioned in the ministry in 25 years. These are not only PZPR's events, they are also resort children who completely paralyze new winds, new trends, new perceptions of the world. The world is changing before our eyes, the world is leaving us, running away, and we still can't define exactly what Brexit is. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we even avoided the word "Brexit," it was forbidden, but it turned out that this fact had happened. We were not prepared for such an important element that happened in foreign policy. And, well, our strategic partner, England, is he going to take us seriously about this? I think they're quite skeptical about us today, seeing that we can't even tell who's gonna win in the United States. We cannot say two weeks after Mr. Donald Trump's election that we are now starting talks and looking for contact with the new administration. We had a good analyst in our environment, consultant Matthew Tyrmand, who was such a relay, was... [[Good analyst, please.]] ...the kind of man who could lead us into a new administration policy in Washington, and we bet on Mr. Gray, which was at least a huge awkward about what you did. These two things show where we are. Speaking of these things, I could still focus on the fact that we're just an observer in the Weimar Triangle. We're recreated in foreign policy. We did not support Slovakia on its proposals to the International Court concerning immigrants. You say you'll restore the consular posts. The platform closed down 25, and we're supposed to play two a year, which means a good change to Polonia will be back there in 10 years. Today in England at least three or four consulates must be opened to serve a million Poles, our compatriots who are there. Nice. It was only after 2 days that we learned from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Poles were killed there, where a few hours after terrorist attacks the entire international press knew names, knew people, and local authorities in Małopolska knew them. So, Mr. Ambassador, if you do not make a thorough personal exchange at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the next few months, you will leave in the future, you will really be seen as the person who [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure she didn't make a good change in foreign policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u47	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szapka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You heard a lot of bitter and, unfortunately, justified words this year. Unfortunately, you also provoked me to raise one personal thread with your information. Namely, saying: We have restored the subjectivity in Polish foreign policy, you insult previous heads of diplomacy, who have conducted Polish diplomacy well for the previous 27 years, but above all you are unbelievable. You are unbelievable because you yourself are not a subject of Polish foreign policy. You're not the creator of it. Let's take a visit from Chancellor Angela Merkel on Tuesday. Which meeting was the most important? Jarosław Kaczyński. Were you at that meeting? Were you at the Jarosław Kaczyński meeting with Viktor Orbán? Do you remember what Richard Czarnecki said about Mr. Ryszard Czarnecki when he visited Donald Trump's staff as a representative of the governing camp? He said he's the vice president of the PiS, and he's formally more important than you. This shows the attitude that PiS has towards you, and for you the country is a party, but above all it shows how little you weigh in Polish internal policy and how little a political figure is responsible for Polish foreign policy. The fact that your speech today listened to one-third of Members of Law and Justice, including the absence of President Kaczyński, who is talking about the future of the European Union with Angela Merkel, who is having talks with Viktor Orbán, shows how little the Law and Justice attach to foreign policy and how little you, unfortunately, are a significant person in this... [[Commission. Don't be unfair. Check it out, not judge it.]] Please don't disturb me. I don't think two-thirds of the club and Jarosław Kaczyński are at committee meetings. Very little has been said by the Minister about the situation and challenges of the modern world. I don't have time for this, so I won't be divorcing, but uncertainty, instability, threats, crises - these are the words that best characterize this situation. What is the answer to this Law and Justice? Back to Europe understood as a common European market, looking for some strange alternatives for the European Union, a Europe you call Europe of nations. It's a euphemism, call it what you're supposed to call it. This is a Europe of national selfishness, this is the best way to get the concert of powers back in Europe, which is deadly and deadly. This is a very serious threat to Poland, such a vision of Europe as you propose. And you complement this approach with flexible solidarity. What does that mean, Minister, flexible solidarity? Then when Viktor Orbán in solidarity is nice at a meeting with Jarosław Kaczyński, it is solidarity, but it is already flexibility when Vladimir Putin gets along with South Stream. That's flexibility, right? This is a bad direction, very dangerous from the point of view of Poland. I will conclude by quoting two quotes from the previous year: A community of values of the democratic world, which form a space uniting society, will be a determinant for us. Minister, during this year, [[♪ The bell ♪]] its concern about the situation of democracy in Poland... 40 seconds, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u49	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u50	Thank you very much. ...attention to the state of democracy in Poland was expressed by the Venice Commission, the UN Human Rights Committee, the European Commission, the American Senators, Barack Obama and Angela Merkel. What is Poland's mandate to discuss, discuss the future of the European Union, when the Government of Law and Justice discharges us from this common project of values? What is more, you said last year during the speech: Warsaw was and will continue to be a centre of dialogue for democracy. [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u51	Thank you, sir, you asked for 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u52	Minister, which Poland has the legitimacy to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u53	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u54	...promote Ukraine as a country that is... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u55	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister ended his speech with a Chinese proverb, I'll start. A Chinese proverb says: True wisdom is needed when dealing with fools. And that's a smart Chinese proverb. I remind them here because there are things in the Minister's speech that I would like to commend the Minister for, but unfortunately these things I can commend you for are an exception to the rule. Because the rule is bad things you do in Polish foreign policy. But what you do good - it is certainly a good direction to restore Polish diplomatic posts in the world. This is where the correction was needed, and thank you for making this correction. I'm sure some of your personal nominations for ambassadors are good nominations and praise to you for that. But I'll stress, they're the exception to the rule, not the rule, because the essence... [[Not in Germany.]] Yes, exactly, not in Germany. ... because the essence of your foreign policy, and unfortunately in many other aspects, is falsehood and hypocrisy. Because today, Minister, you have been tempted to give Poles, to give the High House an analysis of why we have the crisis of the European Union. And you said this, and Mrs Kloc said this: because European elites possessed by ideology promote institutional solutions which Poles do not like which European nations do not like. Okay, let's assume you're right. This is based on what institutional framework does the European Union work today? The Treaty of Lisbon. Who on the Polish side is the author of the Treaty of Lisbon? Holy memory of President Lech Kaczyński and Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. There are people sitting with you in this government who publicly said that President Jarosław Kaczyński, I quote, broke their consciences to vote in favour of the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, a treaty which has taken a very important step towards a united Europe, towards a Europe which will be more centralised than a less centralised Europe. And now the question is, was Jarosław Kaczyński right then, or is he right now. Was Jarosław Kaczyński right when he said that Angela Merkel's choice as chancellor of Germany was highly suspicious and there were suspicious forces behind him, or now that you're telling the Prime Minister with your mouth that you want Angela Merkel's victory in the election? It is right that you wish for victory now, but you cannot fail to see that your foreign policy is based on the belief that terrible things have been happening for twenty years. But, Minister, if what your colleague from the government Antoni Macierewicz said is true, that Polish politics was governed by agents, if they were not from PiS, then why did you do such a twisted career in the Ministry ruled by these terrible liberals? You were the ambassador of this evil Poland, you were a high official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Either they were all agents and they were promoting you, not knowing why, or they weren't agents and they were doing good for Poland because they were promoting you. There's no third way out. I hope so, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that what is the exception of your policy, or good steps, we will see more often than what is its rule, that is, bad, unnecessary and unrealistic foreign policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u57	Thank you. And please... You asked for the floor of Minister Antoni Macierewicz. You're welcome. [[Jesus!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand those voices. These are not only due to a lack of culture, but also to such a desire that the lies here duplicated are not straightened. [[Mom's culture.]] Well, I would like to remind you of what I said, probably 10 years ago, because you probably refer to it as a former Member of the Civic Platform. It specifically stated that 3/4 former ministers in relation to 2010 were reported as secret security service associates in the Security Service archives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Will the Minister respond at every word?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u59	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u60	I wanted to apologize to Minister Antoni Macierewicz. In fact, his speech referred to 2/3, not all ministers, but these 2/3 ministers promoted Minister Waszczykowski in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u61	Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In this debate on foreign policy, I want to start with a spoonful of honey. This teaspoon of honey will be praised for restoring, as it were, the reactivation of the Diplomat Academy. The training of state personnel, the construction of schools, but to a much greater extent, with different institutions, with different offices, the training of staff and the construction of public administration schools is in the National Movement programme, we strongly support this, and this is actually only a reason for serious education. But it's just a spoonful of honey in the barrel of the day, which must be an assessment of foreign policy by the Minister, as well as today's exposé. First of all, I wanted to focus on telling what the foreign policy of Poland is not and what it should be under the government of the Minister. First of all, it is not a foreign policy which defines the greatest threat to the sovereign Polish state in the 21st century, it is not a foreign policy which speaks about globalism, about this phenomenon, about this communism of the 21st century, which is the biggest threat to the sovereignty of Poland, Polish interests in the present day. In this spirit, this foreign policy is a continuation by all governments of the Third Republic of Poland of strengthening the construction of the Federal Republic of Europe. Of course, this is in line with the 15 years of political practice of Law and Justice, because you have supported the European Union from the beginning, you have supported, as has already been mentioned here, the Treaty of Lisbon, you have negotiated it. Today, too, you support every single new central EU institution. Your talking about national parliaments makes no sense, it doesn't matter. You support the German vision of Europe, and in this sense, of course, the visit of Chancellor Angela Merkel and the quite good atmosphere that prevailed is consistent. You have dethroned the Civic Platform from the position of the most pro-German party in Poland, which carries out German interests. Of course, the European Union cannot be changed in the current formula, it is not possible to propose on some body, which is supposed to apply, some new formula. Since the Maastricht Treaty, it has been the construction of a federal superstate and that is clear. Every next step that you as PiS support, you also support now, for example. The European Border Guard... That's bullshit. It's not like we're going to fight the invasion that threatens Europe from the south. Using methods, not institutions. It's a good thing Poland's sending guards. It must be made clear - this too, that there is no such courage in Poland's foreign policy - that just armies of southern European countries should defend the borders of southern Europe, because it is the only way to defend themselves against this invasion. You support globalist solutions, you support CETA, you support TTIP, which threatens Polish agriculture in particular, but not only. Globalism in its pure form. As a government that refers to conservative and Christian values, you support cultural Marxism in an international forum. Why? June 17th, for example. The Law and Justice Government supported, together with all EU countries, a document that called the Homophobia Campaign a historic event. It's a historic moment. The EU countries have never spoken in one voice before on the issue of equality between LGBT people. On 21 November, in the third UN General Assembly Committee, Poland voted against the resolution of the African Group under your rule. Again homolobby, cultural Marxism invading. This is your policy. This is a left-liberal policy in terms of worldview. This is not a policy that puts the interests of Poles first, for example in the East or in the West, in relations with neighbouring countries. In Lithuania, at the beginning of his office, the Minister made a terrible statement that good relations between the Republic of Lithuania and Poland were the most important. That's not true. With the paradigm that is in force in Lithuania, the lituitation of the Polish minority, it is really in favour of the continuation of 27 years of shame, 27 years of consent for the lituitation of the Polish minority. That's the continuation. In Belarus... Open with Belarus. Great. The problem is that once again the issue of the rights of the Polish minority in Belarus is not the central issue that we face in our mutual relations. Germany. Twenty-five years of treaty cuffed last year. Did we have a clear statement from the government that in this fatal treaty there is a clear imbalance between the treatment of the Polish minority in Germany and the treatment of the German minority in Poland? Did we have this raised as an important element? No, we didn't have that in the public debate. Ukraine. You're talking about historical truth in relations with Ukraine. How does this apply to the nomination of Ambassador Hell for this function in Kiev, i.e. someone who denies Polish historical truth... [[What is the Polish historical truth?]] ...Polish historical policy? Minister! The truth is, you're defending an international order that's just passing away. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I agree with the speakers who spoke about the coming era of protectionism, nationalism, realism in foreign policy. [[Fear God!]] However, as in the second half of the 1930s, we defend the order that is passing, and your declaration that Yalta will not be here is worth as much as Beck's declaration in 1939, the most fatal foreign minister in our history of the interwar 20th... [[Oh, my God.]] ...co-responsible for the September defeat. That's why, referring also to this speech by Józef Beck...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u63	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u64	...the honorable way out would be if you just resigned.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u65	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Richard Terletki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard weepy statements from representatives of the opposition who cannot accept the fact that after years of their sneaking around the arena of international politics Poland is now building its meaning and strength back in Europe. [[It's the same thing all the time.]] After these speeches, which referred to government policy, I would like to say a few words about an important element of foreign policy, namely Parliamentary policy, which has also been completely neglected in recent years and has in fact been limited to such a little tourist, you can say, contacts between parliamentary groups or teams that have gone abroad. Parliament's policy can seriously complement the government's international policy, because the discussions and discussions that parliamentarians hold can afford much more honesty and courage than in the formalized various rules of debates conducted by international ministries or diplomatic services. That is why we attach great importance to this international Parliament policy. We direct it primarily on two, one can say, essential issues. Namely, firstly, we believe that in Europe and in the world the importance of national parliaments should grow, and not decrease, which has unfortunately become a fact in some different integration projects lately. Secondly, we believe that Parliament's international policy can serve specific plans or concepts, in this case the parliamentary majority, the majority that we have. This task, which we consider important and possible to develop in the work of various parliamentary groups or politicians representing Parliament, is to build links and cooperation in our region, i.e. in the region we call the area of Central and Eastern Europe. And that's when we paid a lot of attention last year. In this respect, we have been very, very successful. Firstly, it was, of course, one can call it, a bit routine activity of bilateral groups and parliamentary assembly - the Polish-Ukrainian parliamentary assembly was working - but there were also various initiatives taken in narrower circles, mainly among the Visegrad Group countries and not only, with the assumption that Visegrad Group's activities are becoming important, our partners are starting to appreciate it more and more, the voice of this group is increasingly important in Europe. The activities of this group should be extended to include other countries, other countries of our region. In this direction, we have been working in Parliament and in our contacts with representatives of other parliaments, with an emphasis on Visegrad cooperation. There were also activities to expand this group significantly. This was served, among others. An initiative taken at a time when we were in opposition. This was probably the most serious undertaking of the Polish Parliament in recent years. I am thinking here of an initiative by Marshal Marek Kuchciński, then Vice-Marshal, namely the idea, the project of Europe of the Carpathians, i.e. cooperation of the Carpathian region. It is about cooperation, which would not only build a bond between the countries of the wider area of the Carpathian Mountains, but also serve to improve the standard of living and economic functioning in this region, a difficult region, a mountain region. I will not talk about details here, of course, but there have been dozens of meetings within this Carpathian cooperation. They were held at a time when it was much harder for us to organize as an opposition, to find funds, to prepare logistically such meetings, but they were held. Now, of course, they take place in a slightly different, better situation... [[The best.]] ...from the organizational side, of course. It continues, this idea of Carpathian cooperation is developing and expanding with further initiatives. I would also like to talk about the most important project that took place last year and which will continue this year at an even higher level. I am thinking here of the parliamentary summit of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which will take place in May this year. This is the continuation of the meeting, which took place on the last day of August last year, a meeting attended by 11 Presidents of the parliaments of the Central and Eastern European countries, which do not belong to the European Union. They were countries from Turkey and Macedonia to Ukraine and Belarus, as well as countries of the Caucasus. At this meeting, we were actually discussing three fundamental problems. Namely, first of all, the issue of such a discussion within the European Union - I will remind you that these were countries that do not belong to the Union - which would extend the field of cooperation with countries that aspire to the Union, as well as with countries that just want to have good relations with the European Union. This meeting where we discussed the future of Europe within the meaning of not only of the Union... Let me remind you that the Union is experiencing today, I think, the most painful experience in its history, namely for the first time the Community, whose aim was to attract further countries, is lost one of the most important countries. And that is certainly the most serious challenge for this community right now. It is precisely in this situation that we wanted, we talked about how relations between the Union and countries that remain outside its borders should look like, also in this context, so that they can count on them to be in the Union if they wish, or to hope that they will arrange their relations with the Union as effectively as possible. It was one of the topics of this conversation, and there were others. The issue of interparlamental cooperation was raised, as well as a very important issue for our region - security, because we said that we cannot talk about Europe's security without the participation of countries that do not belong to the European Union, especially since one of these countries is concerned with external aggression. This is once again an extraordinary case, right, in the history of post-war Europe, when the territorial integrity of one country has been violated. We agreed then that we would try such a conversation in a wider circle, i.e. including those countries that took part in that conference, as well as those that belong to the European Union. And now preparations are underway, including preparatory talks, before the summit, which will include 27 and 29 countries, the Presidents of Parliaments, who will be discussing various important issues for us in May in Warsaw, including three fundamental issues. Namely, first of all, it is the question of whether there is something in common for the whole Central and Eastern Europe, or if there are some values that we all share. We think that this catalog of values could be specified. He deals with issues such as attachment to sovereignty, such as the fact that history often divides us, but we are all attached to tradition, such as the fact that while we confess different religions, we believe that religion should have an important place in public life. There will certainly be a few more such issues to discuss. We hope that there will be a document at the end that can be presented to the public of our countries as precisely the catalogue of values that we all consider to be common. Furthermore, we want to talk about cooperation, which will go far beyond the powers of parliaments, which will primarily concern governments, but Parliaments can play an important role in initiating it and recommending it. I am thinking of building a new North-South communication axis in Europe. As we all know, Europe is so connected that the most important are these east-west routes, both railway, road and any other ones, including energy lines. The idea of contrasting these routes or creating competition for the east-west axis in the form of another axis, the north-south axis, seems important to the countries of our region. Almost all share this view, and some seek to join this project. Another issue we want to discuss together, of course, is security - we will return to those talks we had last summer - understood not only as a refugee problem or a problem related to the influx of refugees, but also as a number of other issues. I'm not going to mention them in detail here right now. Finally, the issue of cooperation between parliaments, mutual exchanges and the approximation of different political environments is also extremely important. Parliaments do not present a single political line of each country, but a mosaic of these concepts or proposals. So the idea is that, in the midst of these countries and among the many communities represented in the various parliaments, we should talk about what our countries can bring together the nations. This is, I think, a task, a question which, for cooperation, for political activity in the international arena of the Polish Parliament will be the most important next year, but it does not limit or close the list of other matters that we will be taking. Indeed, at the moment, the saturation of relations between parliaments is considerable and actually growing with each month, so that this part of our country's foreign policy, which is being carried out in this case by Parliament, seems very promising. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u67	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! There is no more powerful example of the bankruptcy of PiS foreign policy than the fall of Polish Eastern policy. That's what we need to talk about today. For 25 years it was Eastern politics that was Polish pride and Polish brand in Europe. Unfortunately, it was enough for the year of the PiS government to completely squander this long-term work. We have fallen out of the role of leader of European Eastern Policy, we have ceased to be ambassador to our eastern neighbours. It must be made clear: after a year of government, the Polish Eastern policy is no longer in place. Minister! A year ago, you rejected the Eastern Partnership and announced a new initiative for Eastern Europe, which you and your partners were to report. I ask today: Where is this initiative, where are these partners? Today in the Sejm, seeing the tragic effects of your policy, you change your mind and talk about the need to return to the Eastern Partnership, to convince us that it is possible today that nothing happened. Well, that's what happened, Minister. The alliance and cooperation with Ukraine have destroyed the use of tragic cards of our history for internal politics. You have awakened the demons of the past, destroying the capital of mutual sympathy of our peoples developed over the years of the joint struggle for Ukraine's freedom. It can't be fixed by calling one or another committee. First, we need to stop fueling anti-Ukrainian phobias in Poland, start a real historical dialogue. But you cannot be an effective ambassador for Ukrainian affairs in Europe either. The visa-free movement for Ukraine has been pending for a year for the European Union's decision. What did Poland do about it? What did the government do? What's next with the support programmes for Ukrainian local reform? It is regrettable to hear from your exposé thesis that strategic support for Ukraine is to issue visas to Ukrainians willing to work in Poland. That's really not enough. A few sentences about Belarus, because today it is really a symbol of collapse - a policy towards Belarus - in Polish Eastern policy. Minister, no one is questioning the need to normalise relations with Belarus, but this cannot be done at the expense of democratic environments. Belarusian civil society must be the beneficiary, not the victim of improving Polish-Belarusian relations. It's a matter of principles and values that you've talked about so much. That is why I would like to request Belsat TV here, the only independent television broadcasting in Belarusian, which started broadcasting in December 2007, under your rule. Since then, relations with Belarus have undergone different phases: they were better, worse, but no Polish government has considered the decision to close Belsat. In Belarus, journalists and co-workers of this station sacrificed their freedom so that it could exist. Today, the Polish hands, the hands of the Polish government are to be removed due to the withdrawal of grants by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[It's a scandal.]] Minister! Get out of this terrible decision. [[Applause]] This issue is being looked at by the democratic environment throughout the eastern region, as well as by our Western partners. The elimination of Belsat will destroy trust in Poland as a promoter of freedom and democracy. Belsat isn't just TV. It is an institution of patronage, a patron of independent Belarusian cultural, artistic, intellectual environments. Only on the Kremlin will they enjoy removing another obstacle for the unlimited expansion of the Russki miru. Is that what we're talking about? I would also like to appeal to Marshal Terletki, who spoke here about parliamentary diplomacy. I would like to appeal to the PiS Members to defend Belsat. As parliamentarians of values and principles, you should do so. Unfortunately, today, with this parliamentary diplomacy towards Belarus, we remember only the visit of Marshal Karczewski to Alexander Lukashenka's palace and the words about a warm man. It's really embarrassing. Similarly, it is nasty to try to get along with Lukashenka behind the back of the Polish Union in Belarus. I must also say this openly, because President Angelica Boris spoke about it. It is not only disgusting in format, in a moral dimension, but also unwise and creates divisions among the Polish minority in Belarus. The Polish Union in Belarus and its President, Mr Boris, Minister, are now part of the legend, the Polish history of the struggle for freedom. If the Polish government puts this legend into the hands of the warm man Alexander Łukaszenka, it will open a new card in the Polish book of shame. That's how it's gonna be. There is no real progress in politics with Belarus today, there is no local border traffic, the Union of Poles in Belarus cannot act officially, and for this year the biggest Russian military maneuvers in history have been announced at the Polish borders. There's no effect, and the threat... You have already put so many Polish assets at risk in Belarus. This blacklist can be continued, developed. For a year it has become so bad that Polish Eastern policy requires not only correction. She needs to be rebuilt. I am convinced that this will be the task of a new minister and a new government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're a joker.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u69	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr John Klawiter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I represent in the Sejm the Right Hand of the Republic. I am pleased that Poland has started speaking louder in the European and international arena and has intensified regional policy. One of the biggest challenges for Poland is its place in the European Union and work on the right direction for the development of the European Union. The crisis in the Union, which we are facing, is based on the fact that many members of the Union have departed from the Christian values at the heart of its action and also on the basis of many national communities in our part of the world. The national Communities have developed for hundreds of years and today should, while maintaining an important part of their autonomy, be the subject of a responsible European policy. Poland should strongly promote Christian values in order to renew the spirit of European nations. Without this, there will be no common Europe. It should be like a family that is a community of separate personalities, but also capable of partially giving up their own benefits for the common good. As a positive attempt to establish a better relationship with Belarus should be noted, because that is our point of view. Good relations with close neighbours are, by nature, more important than with distant neighbours. Efforts must be made to ensure that good cooperation with the US is not opposed to the further development of the European community. For many reasons, good relations with the United States are our state's reason. It is good that they are improving, but at the same time we are putting too little effort into active cooperation with China. This is the second player in the world arena and we must definitely step up our relationship with him. Another important issue is our action in the face of immense immigration. A good rule adopted by our government is that the problems arising are related, among others. with the Syrian conflict, resolve near their place of origin. The government is trying to be active on this issue, but the size of the financial expenditure on this is far too small. It has to be increased several times. We need to make it really clear that we are taking this case very seriously. We should not be illusions, the situation in the world will become more difficult, but we must also look after our interests. We believe that our action on CETA is not in the right direction, because we are somehow giving in to globalisation and increasing our dependence on multinationals, placing them, so to speak, in a more privileged position compared to our companies in Poland. [[Applause]] I would therefore like to propose that we pay attention to these fundamental issues and Christian values, on this basis we step up our action, because the situation in the world will be increasingly difficult for the next few years and the actions present will not be enough for us to function well as Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u71	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Konrad Głębocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u72	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I took part in the presentation of part of the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning economic diplomacy and Polish-British relations. However, it is difficult not to refer first to what rained here in this room. Just now, in the speeches of Members of the Civic and Modern Platform, we have seen a show of exceptional shoes and arrogance. Representatives of the theoretical state, interests of the PO, at the time of the governments which we were dealing with the conduct of a subsidiary policy, even a vassal policy, taught Minister Waszczykowski, a thunderbolt of Minister Waszczykowski, who had just led to the subjectivity of Polish foreign policy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But perhaps the most reprehensible was the speech of President Grzegorz Schetin, because it was a speech harmful to Poland, [[Applause]] a speech in which he tried to perpetuate unfair, negative stereotypes about our country and our government policy. Mr Grzegorz Schetyna forgot that what is most important in the work of every parliamentarian is the Polish right of state. He should write it in his bunk a hundred times, maybe it would be different then. [[You too, just the two of you.]] You could have realized your wisdom during your reigns. [[We were just doing it.]] But the theoretical state that you created, unfortunately, was also theoretical in the field of Polish foreign policy. You have eliminated dozens of Polish diplomatic posts in various countries of the world. But as a theoretical state, that is precisely what it means to close the state, not to expand it and strengthen its influence. After all, you have the audacity to criticize or properly organize a hat addressed to Minister Waszczykowski, who with such a capacity is now trying to recreate the facilities, recreate what you destroyed. [[Applause]] [[That's what you've ruined.]] You say that Poland in the European Union does not matter, you are talking about some isolation of Poland shortly after Angela Merkel's visit, who spoke with the Polish President, the Prime Minister, spoke with the President, Jarosław Kaczyński, listening, I think, with great care what Poland has to offer when it comes to healing the European Union. [[What? What?]] How did the country, which you believe is isolated, prepare and hold a NATO summit with very good success, with very good results? [[Top of the peaks, so you can say you've prepared this summit.]] At the end of your reign, you have done almost nothing to prepare this summit, and it is known that preparations last much longer than six months. All this had to be done. [[You're just youth days.]] You're talking about the Visegrad Group. After all, it was during your governments that Poland broke out of solidarity within the Visegrad Group. You didn't want solidarity... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...also on migration. You ruined it. [[Now you break out without supporting Tusk.]] And the question is: Who then led to the isolation of Poland in this part of Europe? [[Applause]] You're talking about Poland being isolated. Excuse me, have you ever heard of the Bucharest Declaration, have you heard of the fact that several countries of our region are meeting in Romania, where President Andrzej Duda is co-host of the meeting? It is very easy, as Mr Trzaskowski does, to ridicule the concept of the Intersea. She talks about it to quote it well, the anachronistic fanaberia, which is precisely an ambitious concept that could give Poland a position that Poland has not had in Europe for many decades in the future. You are lying that Poland, Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice, want to dismantle the European Union. You don't understand. This is a major reform of the European Union, without which this grouping will reach its end, there will be more exites. You didn't learn anything, Brexit, you didn't learn anything from a major, massive migration crisis. [[Applause]] It is we who are working for the rebirth of the European Union, and you are pushing us towards a federal Europe, while even economic integration has not been completed. Where's the digital market, where's the real energy union... [[Where's the euro? Where is the euro in Poland?]] ...you were talking about where energy security is now going, within the Union, to the second plan? Just look in the winter package. However, your specialty, as President Schetyna said in his programme, is the street and abroad, only that abroad is for you to report on Poland. [[Applause]] [[The only informants were you.]] Mr Trzaskowski is not in this room right now, Mr Schetin is not here. [[They're bored.]] They're bored with this debate. In that case, I would like to say to Mr Trzaskowski in the eye: Mr Trzaskowski, Mr Trzaskowski, you are trying to get out of the shadows by making a hat in this room aimed at Minister Waszczykowski instead of focusing on the substantive discussion. You have a problem because your government has always flown in the mainstream, which meant that Polish foreign policy has been vassalized. [[Jesus Christ!]] This problem you have, Mr Trzaskowski... [[Voice from the room: The main current is just...]] ...that's the problem with the underling's mentality. [[Applause]] [[Is it over or something else?]] I will now move on to the issue of economic diplomacy. The economic diplomacy was defined by Minister Witold Waszczykowski, including the exposé, and last year as one of the main priorities of Polish diplomacy. The surplus in foreign trade, which is very clear in the months from January to November of that year, is over EUR 4 billion, shows that Poland is increasingly pursuing its economic interests on world markets. It should also be remembered that in 2015 and earlier years, in connection with VAT fraud on exports, estimates, then not the best in terms of exports, or actually in those years in which you ruled, it was a deficit in foreign trade, it was a negative balance. [[Man!]] Don't you know the statistics, sir? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[No, I do, sir.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[It was a balance, not a flip.]] ...you can reach for these statistics. So we had a negative trade balance during your governments, and it was still not as negative as it would have been from reality, because there were VAT frauds. This is what our government is fighting. And a few more words about... [[And you failed.]] It succeeds, the effects of this are very visible... [[I guess not.]] ...too much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I am now moving on to the issue of Polish-British relations. This relationship is extremely important to us, regardless of whether the United Kingdom remains in the European Union or not, because it is a country that has a sober judgment as to whether... [[Higher than you.]] ...how Russia works, as well as about Russia's violation of international law. He has much more sober judgment than some other large countries in the European Union. This also translates into certain facts. The fact that British soldiers will come to Poland is that much eastern flank will be strengthened, because it is not only a matter of battalion, but also of armored division, the American armored brigade, these are concrete facts, but in the context of Polish-British relations it is necessary to say it is very clear that the UK will remain one of the key partners for us. So there hasn't been any mistake, as you want to call it. The evidence that Britain also takes relations with Poland very seriously is the intergovernmental consultation that took place last November. The UK has rather similar consultations with very few countries. Of course, your role is to deny everything, deny that in the last year really Polish foreign policy has become subjective. It is still a short question, because Madam President Izabela Kloc has already talked about the issue of the European Union, its place in Polish foreign policy. It is worth noting that the European Union, if it is to survive, should not go in the direction of the Federal, but towards the union of sovereign states which transfer some of their powers to exercise jointly, but on the basis of consensus rather than the greatest dictatorship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u73	Thank you. Member of the House? [[Corrigendum.]] One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Elementary principles, after all, we are trying to discuss European policy in a substantive way in committee. [[Voice from the room: Today?]] Actually, my speech was extremely substantive, there were no elements of the hat. As far as questions about important investments for Poland are concerned, they are fully entitled. I would ask if we really care about the substantive tone of the debate, then let us take care. And I want to assure you, as you can see, I've been watching your speech. In fact, in the clowns. Thank you very much. [[It's a good thing he's in the cockroaches.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u75	Please take the floor of Mr Mark Krzykala.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When you listen to the speech of the Minister or before my previous speaker from Law and Justice, there is a bitter reflection that last year in foreign policy was a lost year. You can partially agree with the Minister on the definition of threats, but this was not the year in which Poland would strengthen its position and image in the world. It was the other way around. We were successfully losing credibility and a good brand. Speaking of Polish-German relations, aside from the last visit of Chancellor Angela Merkel, despite the many meetings mentioned by the Minister, it was politically at least a year of unused opportunities. I'm gonna justify that because one swallow of spring doesn't. Fortunately, the economy and the social dimension are doing well. 12 months ago, you invited the Minister, the Venice Commission, but also German politicians to come to Poland and find out that our democracy is not so bad. A few days ago, the chancellor took the opportunity to remind us of solidarity, the importance of free media, pluralism and compliance with the law. These were the main aspects highlighted in the Western media as the conclusion of the last visit. No one in Europe, except Orbán, wants to hear about the revision of the treaties. In general, you had a terrible start to our relationship as Foreign Minister. Germany as a neighbour and partner was only mentioned in the exposé in 50 minutes. The German ambassador was called to the rug, who was to translate from the statements of European politicians, because they dared to point out that in Poland we are leaving the rule of law and the three divisions of power. I will ignore the unfortunate statements in the course of the interviews and the unfortunate statements that in the West made public opinion stunned. I will say this, Minister, in the language of diplomacy, you do not sin, and that certainly does not make your job as Foreign Minister easier. Last year we had the opportunity to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty on good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation. It's been a long time since you've known the Minister how to do that. During the opening of the jubilee year in the Polish-German forum, Mr. Frank-Walter Steinmeier spoke about what we had in common and encouraged you to cooperate, he wished you courage. On the other hand, Minister, you have preferred to calculate differences and highlight what divides us and at the same time to put out the round table, which has so far been a tool to solve bilateral problems. Tell me why. Has the Polish interests extended the borders of the Opole in order to limit the rights of the German minority? Is that what this constructive dialogue is supposed to be about? In June, the Bundestag adopted a comprehensive resolution on the anniversary of the signing of the Treaty. Poland did not like one sentence, expressing concern about the state of our democracy. Therefore, good will was not enough to pass a similar half-page resolution in the Sejm. Nor do you, Minister, have a good hand with diplomats. Bad choice was made for an ambassador in Germany, who found himself in the 11th place of the most infamous list of Berlin's most troublesome people. But luckily after Brexit, the U.S. elections, it's time to reflect, or maybe more on the dangers of the East, and you're trying to get back to your proven allies. You're the one who's bragging. But the opportunity for closer and more intensive cooperation within the Weimar Triangle was also not used. Perhaps because of the fault of the French, as you said yesterday, maybe by caracale, but maybe it is more due to the fact that the Triangle was associated with the compliance of the Minister, and after all Poland must finally get off its knees. Please tell me that these wordings are not rather based on complexes and low self-esteem, they are constant emphasis on subjectivity, they are criticism of the Union. After all, social inequalities are due to the imperfections of capitalism, not to the fact of greater integration. And yet we know that the treaty changes outside the President, and perhaps Orbán, no one in Europe wants to. In addition, there is unanimity in the Treaty's revision, and for now we are creating a different principle, the principle of flexible solidarity, which is mentioned by your national egoism, the consequences of which in the long term will be against us. If we want to avoid marginalisation and return to the main decision-making circle, if we want to strengthen Poland, as you said, to be strong and safe to avoid the formation of a hard testicle Or a union of different speeds, let us return to proven, not illusory allies, without prejudice, Minister, and complexes. Let us start in the name of co-ownership for Europe's fate to cooperate seriously with Germany, not only in the economic sphere, but above all in the political sphere, because then Europe will not be German, but Germany will be more European, and we should all care very much about this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u77	Thank you. And Mr Michael Yacha, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour of presenting the position of the club on security policy. Security is the foundation of everything we do. This is what Henry Kissinger, a representative of the state for which security is a matter for which everyone in the country should speak with one voice. The security of Poland was one of the two key priorities of the programme with which my party went to the elections in 2015. Thus, in 2016, the security policy coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was also a priority in the activities of all the most important authorities of the state - the President, the Government, as well as parliamentarians of Law and Justice, who participated in various contacts with our allies. Minister, my speech was supposed to be a little different, but in view of the fact that the security policy is probably particularly attacked today, that you are particularly attacked for lowering the position, security of Poland in the region, but also in the whole world, I must go back to what was before. As a matter of fact, if someone has done something wrong, they should at least not speak if they talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, what was the question of Poland's security before 2016? The basic security documents that have been published in recent years show how security was perceived, how it was the attitude towards this highest authority in Poland at the time. In the White Paper of National Security published in early 2013, we read, and this is a document signed by the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Bronisław Komorowski, that in the perspective of 20 years Poland does not have to worry, there are no major threats. In 2013, when the Crimean case began. And in the National Security Strategy issued and signed by President Komorowski in 2014, Russia is mentioned only three times, and this is a 56-page document. Russia is a threat, but not a great threat, and already fought beyond our eastern border. And that's what happened. It is a pity to speak about the state of the Armed Forces, Mr Antoni Macierewicz has presented him many times in this Chamber. And this is when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2016 prepared an extremely important event, which was the NATO summit, Minister Waszczykowski, Minister of Foreign Affairs, responsible for organizing this summit, is under attack. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in our history after 1989 we had two key events that determine the current state of security. The first is Poland's accession to NATO in 1999, the second is last year's summit in Warsaw. The Warsaw summit in its assumptions was supposed to be a great opportunity for Poland to take the decisions it expected. And what did it turn out to be? After the election, it turned out that we stood, twice, before threatening to cancel the summit or move it to another country. For the first time, after the government assumed power, Prime Minister Beata Szydło found that the predecessors had not made any preparations for this extremely important event from the point of view of the Polish state and security... [[Don't talk nonsense.]] ...a multi-year-old. Even the National Stadium, the pre-established location of the summit, was not rented or booked. [[Don't be silly.]] There was no agenda for contacting our allies, etc., etc. [[The address of this stadium was unknown, of course.]] It's not worth talking about, it's better to put the curtain on that scandal we found. In extra fast mode, we had to... [[Build.]] ...to defeat. Once again, we faced the threat of moving the summit, and this happened when the opposition realized - and I would like to say that this is the merit of, unfortunately, the Civic Platform - that the government will prepare everything in time. Then an unprecedented attack on the international arena began. The purpose of this action outside the country was... [[Disinformation.]] ...trying to discredit the Polish government in the eyes of allies to decide to move the summit outside of Poland. This could already be read in the Polish press. [[Voice from the room: In your press]] Unfortunately, I'm sorry. Luckily, this operation didn't work out. [[And the TVP showed.]] The summit took place in Warsaw and Polish diplomacy was a spectacular success. A significant event, and this is the personal merit of Minister Waszczykowski, was the adoption of the Warsaw Declaration in which the parties defined the current unprecedented state of the security challenges, including terrorism, Russia's actions, as well as instability in the Middle East and North Africa. It also stated that the strategic partnership between NATO and the European Union is increasingly essential for the security of our countries and the Euro-Atlantic area. As a result of joint decisions of the Polish and Eastern NATO summit, they received a guarantee of security against threats from Russia. Our allies have committed themselves to placing their troops in Central Europe. This is the precedent we have been waiting for since we joined NATO. The consistent convincing of allies about the Russian threat did not only bring the expected decisions for Poland. And yet, at the end of 2015, it did not seem real. The government's announcements about bringing allies to permanent presence in Poland were mocked and criticized by the opposition as unrealistic. It is thanks to consistent actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the entire government that Poland is no longer accused of Rusophobia. Our politicians are perceived as experts in Russian and President Putin's behaviour. [[Because they have similar behaviors.]] It helps maintain sanctions for Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also allow myself to be personally digressed here, because in preparation for the NATO summit, I too had the privilege of meeting with many of our allies' policies: from Sweden, Finland to Romania and Montenegro. And what is characteristic, in each of these meetings, regardless of whether they were government or parliament representatives, they clearly declared the expectation that Poland should become a key country in terms of shaping security in our region of Europe. I ask: Where was this prestige of Poland as an important partner in the region, since they expect this from us in 2016? These empty and unwarranted words to Minister Waszczykowski's policy are particularly unacceptable to me, because I have always thought that security policy, security, sovereignty are issues where there should be no political upheavals like that today proposed, as presented by the Civic Platform today. Ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of the NATO Summit will be a percentage for many years. Since the beginning of this year, we have seen American soldiers practicing on our ground with heavy equipment. Our strategic ally, the United States, is the first to meet our commitments. Soon more European NATO members will be arriving in our region. It's gonna be about 8,000 in total. Soldiers and a lot of equipment. It is also worth reminding you to start in May Ub. the construction of the American missile shield in Redzików, which will start functioning with 400 people in 2018. The Alliance is fulfilling its commitments from the Warsaw Summit. Minister, this is the most visible proof of your proper security policy. Poland is, has become a reliable partner. The overarching treatment of Polish interests does not exclude our concern for the future of a united Europe, for the security of its borders, and finally, for strong and lasting transatlantic relations. Our soldiers are taking part in various missions in the Middle East, and the ship of Kontradmiral Xavery Czernicki for the first time in history became the flagship unit of the NATO Permanent Anti-Mine Defence Team operating in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. Poland, as one of the few members of the Alliance, is fulfilling its commitment to spend 2% GDP for national defence. Ladies and gentlemen, 2%. We spent GDP for the first time in 2016 after 8 years of budget failure. The challenges for the security of Poland in 2017 can be brought to two dimensions. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The first is 2017, a time of changes in government teams in several countries, crucial for security policy and the sustainability of Euro-Atlantic structures. This year's presidential elections in France and parliamentary elections in Germany can bring about major changes in the international policies of these countries. Nor will Brexit remain indifferent to the discussion on European security. Significant re-evaluations in transatlantic relations, as well as in the approach to ongoing conflicts in Ukraine or Syria, should therefore not be excluded. And the second political and military challenge remains Russia's aggression on Ukraine and its consequences. This conflict creates a number of real challenges for Poland, but it also threatens the sustainability of security architecture in Europe. It is worth saying that the threats from the South, which have its main source in the actions of Islamic Daesh extremists, will probably also not pose a direct challenge for us in 2017. And this is proof that Polish foreign policy on immigrants is being conducted properly. Minister, maybe one more quote at the end. Security is not everything, but without security everything is nothing," said the great commander. Thank you, Minister, for doing this, for understanding it perfectly. With regard to security policy, the Law and Justice are proud to have you running it very properly. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u79	Thank you. You asked Minister Witold Waszczykowski to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Michael, I am simply touched by your speech to me, but I would just like to remind all of you that this success of the NATO Summit was the success of the teamwork of the entire government and several ministers. On the other hand, I wanted to explain because I hear noises of discontent, grunting, and other noises. Well, we came to power on 16 November 2015 and then we could reach the documents and check when the preparations for the NATO summit began. The papers don't lie. The decision to start preparations for the NATO Summit was taken on 27 October 2015 by the government of Ms Ewa Kopacz. The documents are and are public. [[That's not true.]] Two days after the election, lost the election. That's what the papers are for. There were no preparations until October 27th. [[Voice from the room: Reports are available.]] You couldn't do anything until November 16th. These preparations began after the takeover of power. [[It's a lie.]] Then, throughout 2015 and for many months of 2016, the main opposition party and other main opposition parties assumed that no military bases would be created in Poland, but they are unnecessary, because nobody and nothing is looking for us. The decisions of the Welsh summit in Newport are sufficient because we will be protected in case of danger by the pointer. It was this government in the spring of 2016 that convinced allies in NATO that our great neighbour in the east gained anti-acquis, anti-accession capabilities. Difficult Polish word, difficult term English Anti-Access/Area Denial. Therefore, it was only in the spring of that year that NATO decided that the point was insufficient and that the security of the eastern flank, including Poland, had to be ensured by the constant rotational presence of allies. A similar decision was also made by the Americans to send troops and their troops here. So, complementing only and adding a certain factography to Mr Jacha's speech, I would like to document it and say that the documented materials, the facts are. I know that total opposition, if there are facts, will deny these facts, because it's worse for the facts, you have to refer to them. Among other things, because you deny that there are normal relations between Poland and Germany, Poland and France, Poland and Europe, we presented this brochure because sometimes the picture is worth a thousand words. You cannot deny that Poland has normal relations, Poland is not isolated, Poland is not marginalized. Poles leave, come to Poland and we co-decide together with these countries about European and non-European relations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u81	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u82	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr Jach and the Minister do not know what debate they are taking part in. We are taking part in a debate on foreign policy plans for next year, and you are talking about the Civic Platform, about the summit a year ago, about what happened. You're not saying anything about the future. But I know why this is happening. That's why, Minister, you are not a wizard of Polish foreign policy. Unfortunately, you're not a wizard. You don't have the slightest influence on her. Unfortunately, Prime Minister Szydło has no influence on this policy either. The Polish Constitution regulates the issue simply: the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the President who listened to this debate are responsible for foreign policy. But none of these people in Poland 2017 have an impact on foreign policy. This constitutional triangle was replaced by another triangle, by Kaczyński - Legutko - Krasnodębski. These are people responding to foreign policy in Poland. They should be here, they should be telling us what our plans are. Nobody reads your interviews abroad, no one. [[Voice from the room: Shh..., keep your voice down.]] Everyone is waiting to hear what Legutko says, everyone is waiting to hear what Krasnodębski says, or everyone is waiting for Kaczyński to say. This is the scale of the collapse of this government. [[Voice from the room: But quieter.]] Never in life, never in life after 1989 was there a government in Poland that had so little to say on foreign policy issues, would have so little to say in a literal sense. Those responsible for this policy, Mr. Kaczyński... As long as Mr. Kaczyński was giving curial interviews in Poland, grotesque sometimes, we got over it somehow, but at the moment when he felt really responsible for foreign policy and started giving curial interviews in the foreign press... Ladies and gentlemen, every elementary diplomat knows that in the pre-election period there is no talk in internal affairs. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] in another country. And Mr. Kaczyński says, "I like Chancellor Merkel, and I don't like Schulz." What if the politician of another country said this before the elections in Poland? This is a lack of elementary culture and diplomacy skills, not to mention that in Germany there is a general opinion that Mrs Merkel has harmed this statement, given the assessment of Kaczyński's policy in Germany, and Schulz has helped with this statement, unless it is a real intention. How does Kaczyński practice foreign policy? How does Kaczyński practice foreign policy? Meeting with Chancellor Merkel [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] He sacrificed - Leguta's words - to question Donald Tusk. In fact, the first, essential point of his program. Against everything. Against the Czechs, against Hungary, against the Slovaks. They all see Tusk as their good representative in Europe, defending the interests of Central and Eastern Europe. Kaczynski doesn't. Kaczynski doesn't. This is the realization of Polish interests? This is treason. This is a betrayal of Polish interests. And you have to say it out loud. [[Game in the hall, applause]] We'll tell you. This is a betrayal of Polish interests. [[The voice from the hall: Treason was all these years as you ruled.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You had a special chance. You have to live a few lives in computer games. In life, there are few lives in politics. But you guys had a special situation because the political situation worked out so well that you could reset your policy. After a year, Minister, when everything you said went bankrupt, all your ideas, you had a chance to come out here and say: Reset, we are back to traditional Polish politics. You didn't take that chance. One thing was important in your speech, but dangerous. You spoke of the European Union's renovation. Quote:... we post... we cannot rely on restoring the facade and discussing decorative details, but on an in-depth assessment of the state of the foundations on which the whole construction of the European building is based. We do not rule out the need to build a new Union on the basis of a new treaty on the foundation of four freedoms. And you see an occasion on the anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome because it's your birthday. Well, folks, because it's your birthday, you're gonna change treaties. Europe needs stability. Europe needs cooperation. Europe needs a resett of Polish foreign policy, because this policy is a breaking-up policy, damaging the Union and destroying the foundations of economic, political and military security of our country. Reset, Minister, reset your policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u83	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski. All the ladies and gentlemen who will still be speaking, I would like to inform you that there are microphones on the platform and that you can hear all of you very well, there is no need to shout. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The migration crisis, which has taken place in Europe in recent years, has been discussed and decided by European politicians. The Polish position against this crisis, which is based on helping and commitment to solving problems at the place where these problems arise and on decisive action to ensure the safety of Polish citizens, turned out to be correct and positively verified against the background of these events which we have seen in Europe recently. It is worth recalling a few facts that took place in Western Europe and which... Thanks to the policy led by the Polish government, by Minister Waszczykowski Poles avoided these problems. Relatively recently, in response to the questions of parliamentarians, the German authorities admitted that of almost 1,100 thousand. those who have crossed borders and asked for asylum have reached their designated place of residence less than half. Where's the rest of it? We don't know. No one knows what happened to tens or hundreds of thousands of refugees in the territory of the German state, whether they're there or they're gone. Another example. There is no doubt that, along with this powerful wave of migrants, the fighters of the Islamic State have arrived. The terrorist attacks have shocked Europe. What happened in Calais? What happened in Calais? It is worth recalling several titles that we could read in many media and Polish, and foreign: Dante scenes in Calais. Chaos in Calais. Gangs of immigrants are attacking in Calais. Big chaos in Calais, service doesn't even control truck traffic. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is fortunate that just when this huge crisis was coming, Prime Minister Beata Szydło formed the government, and Minister Waszczykowski became Minister of Foreign Affairs. I fear to think what would have happened if this policy had been implemented, which was announced by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz and the politicians of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, due to the unprecedented migratory pressure at the southern Schengen borders, the European Union is taking action to combat the crisis. Poland, implementing the principle of solidarity at European level in practice, actively supports EU partners. Poland is therefore actively involved in combating the migration crisis by supporting the European Border and Coast Guard Agency - Frontex, the European Asylum Support Office and the European Police Office - Europol in the form of the secondment of Border and Police Guard officers and the staff of the Office for Foreigners. It should be stressed that Poland's participation in the above mentioned period. activities are significant against the background of other Member States. Poland also provides bilateral assistance. We have seconded border guards and police officers with the necessary equipment to Hungary, Slovakia and Bulgaria and Macedonia. Poland posted nearly 0.5 thousand. officers for joint operations coordinated by Frontex, including 227 officers, served in Greece. As regards the current engagement, as at 23 January 2017, 52 Border Guard officers participate in joint operations coordinated by Frontex, 31 of which carry out their duties in Greece, while 20 are involved in activities carried out in Bulgaria. As regards data on the involvement of the Office in Foreign Affairs in 2016, 40 staff took part in 62 support missions in Greece and Italy, including 40 experts took part in 62 support missions in Greece, Italy and the countries of South Europe. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is worth noting and mentioning in this debate that Poland in the European Union during the discussion on the future of the EU's migration and asylum policy categorically opposes the establishment of an automatic mechanism for the redistribution of migrants. In the opinion of Poland, this instrument will not only contribute to reducing pressure, but will also deepen the migration crisis, which is a factor attracting not only refugees but also economic migrants, contributing to the deepening of disputes between the Member States of the European Union. It is not hard to imagine what would have happened if the Civic Platform policy had been implemented. How would we hold, by force, these thousands of migrants, since we know that in Poland the system of benefits is much smaller than in Western Europe, how would we solve these problems? Ladies and gentlemen! Poland stresses the need to find solutions that would prevent migrants from entering the Union and would be acceptable to all Member States and citizens. This should be done in accordance with the wishes of the citizens of the Member States. In Poland's view, a solution to the crisis should be sought at source, i.e. in countries generating migration, rather than shifting the burden of the problem to Member States. For this reason, action to reduce the migratory pressure on the European Union and minimise the threat of a sudden increase in the influx of migrants and refugees should focus on cooperation with countries of origin and transit of migrants. In this context Poland supports the implementation of current and future migration pacts for third countries and provides adequate financial support to these countries in connection with the migration crisis, including. in the form of a contribution to the Refugee Facility in Turkey, the European Union Regional Trust Fund in response to the Syrian crisis and the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Africa. That is not true, as we sometimes hear, that Poland does not help. It helps, and the funds I've exchanged are proof of that. As of 2012 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs implements measures financed by the special reserve for development cooperation, but it is worth noting that in 2016 the aid increased fourfold compared to the aid in 2015, from 13 to 46 million, e.g. involved in conflict and war in Syria. On the initiative of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and chancellor of Germany, a programme for the reconstruction of schools in Lebanon was launched. The total amount of Polish aid in response to the Syrian conflict and the migration crisis through the Turkish instrument in 2016 amounts to nearly PLN 120 million. Ladies and gentlemen, one more important thing. By engaging in the resolution of the migration crisis in the south of the European Union, the government of the Republic of Poland closely monitors migratory phenomena in the east of Europe. It is worth emphasizing once again, although it was already raining from this speaker today, that the Republic spent 1260 thousand to the citizens of Ukraine. visas in 2016, of which 700 thousand. Ukrainians declared their willingness to work. It is not right to treat Ukrainians who are fleeing Russian aggression, worse than migrants from Africa. It should be borne in mind that sealing the southern border of the European Union may result in the search for alternative migration routes by smuggling groups. Therefore, Poland is taking concrete measures to prevent migratory pressure on this direction and to increase resilience in the event of adverse events. In the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Poland draws the attention of its partners to the need to maintain a geographical balance in the involvement of the European Union in the broadly understood dimension of the neighbourhood and in the eastern neighbourhood of the European Union. Minister! Each of us parliamentarians is meeting with our constituents. At this point I would like to thank you for hearing very often the voices of Polish citizens, who, observing what is happening in Western Europe every day, terrorist attacks, explosions, the control of city centres by illegal migrants, thank the Polish Government and the Minister for being able not only to ensure the safety of Polish citizens, but also to offer Europe a better solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u85	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Halicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister! It was supposed to be something else, but since you brought up the subject... You can't lie, you can't lie in such a way, I would say, impudent way, because it's actually something very sad, when security is at stake, the business of Poland and is operated not by facts, but by insinuations. It is not difficult, Minister, to see when the work of the inter-ministerial team preparing the NATO summit began, nor is it difficult to find also the 2014 report, in the autumn, in October, as you mentioned, but not this year. And if you really want to analyze government documents, you will find a regulation of the Council of Ministers on this issue of 2 March 2015. But if you want to keep looking for documents, like... in your department, you will receive a report from the monthly meetings of this team, chaired by Prime Minister Siemoniak, and his deputy was Grzegorz Schetyn, Minister of Foreign Affairs, from 8 March 2015, from the beginning of April, etc., because every month there were such meetings and meetings in which I personally attended. You must not put all Poles on the scales of security in the name of imaginary party rations and false insinuations. [[Applause]] Poland is all of us and security concerns all of us. I understand that your country was born in autumn 2015 and that then Polish independence was born, because this is your PiS-Polish way of describing the world, but it is not, although you are actually acting like such a baby breaking up everything without the ability to coordinate his own movements. This would be justified because you are only one year old, but Poland is not a toy and it is not allowed to play the security of Poland. As you're so wrong about such things, such facts that you can't record, that you've got the summit prepared... Minister Macierewicz showed that okay. I understand that this is the normal, understandable symbol in the world okay. Yes, it was okay and thanks to it the summit in Warsaw went well, because in Newport it was also defined what we should achieve in Poland. And it's been realized. For this I wanted to commend you, but it is obvious that you cannot be completely, because you are playing Polish security in the name of imaginary fantasies. I don't want to talk about Mr. Legutka here anymore, Dwarf or the last interview of the president. Let's put it aside. Let the Foreign Ministry conduct Polish diplomacy, let the Foreign Ministry restore this Ministry to the ability to effectively conduct Polish foreign policy, because so far everything is crashing like porcelain, and the facts are not even able to check and everything is falling out of your hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u87	Thank you. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to speak. Once again, I repeat my warm and cordial request not to yell at the speaker. There are microphones on, and you can really hear each and every one of you. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In my speech, I wanted to focus on things that [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] stressed the Minister, concerning energy, energy policy. In particular, there are three important issues, three important points on Poland's strategic energy challenges. First of all, it is a matter of building the so-called. Northern gates, gas connections to the Norwegian shelf, these are energy and climate issues and government action issues towards the project Nord Stream 2 and OPAL. High Izbo! An extremely important project from the point of view of our country's strategic challenges and interests is the implementation by the government of a gas connection project through Denmark with the Norwegian shelf, which is part of the Energy Union's objectives to diversify supply and competitiveness in the gas market. This project aims at ensuring security of supply and increasing the independence of the Republic of Poland and the regions of Central and Eastern Europe from gas supplies from Russia. This investment is a priority for the government and it is therefore extremely important to continue all efforts of Polish foreign policy to build support for this initiative for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but also, of course, the countries and governments of Denmark and Norway. That is why it is important to be responsible for our government's policy, to support and advance this important project. The second, extremely important element of our energy policy, these are energy development issues, these are issues related to the CO2 emissions trading system and the regulation of the European Union's energy markets. Work is underway in the European Parliament to amend the EU ETS Directive. These proposals aim to significantly reduce the overall pool of CO2 emission allowances and consequently to increase their prices. It is impossible for Poland to cover the costs of the new ETS, in particular while making investments aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. It is therefore necessary at least to provide adequate compensation mechanisms. At the same time, in order for the Polish energy sector to benefit from the mechanisms, any benchmark that the European Commission is currently calling for in the European Parliament should be excluded. Its introduction would make it impossible for Member States to include coal-fired power plants in these mechanisms and thus to implement the Treaty's right to freely shape the energy mix. Another issue is the so-called proposal published by the European Commission. a winter package which contains a number of provisions that may prevent this Treaty law from being implemented. In order to ensure energy security and avoid electricity shortages in the future, the government has decided to put in place a power market. In this context, the package benchmark of 550 g/kWh, which excludes strategic carbon blocks from support mechanisms, is unacceptable. In the context of the European Commission's proposal for a new energy market model, including enhanced regional cooperation, it is necessary to maintain the competence of Member States to develop market principles and their responsibility for security of energy supply. It is therefore important to support and commend the actions of the government which fully pursues the strategic interests of our country in this area. To conclude, I will address the Nord Stream 2 and OPAL project briefly. The aim of the Polish government is to do everything in our power so that we can block this harmful investment for Poland, because it is undoubtedly the aim of the project. Nord Stream 2, gas connections between Russia and Germany, is the limitation or reduction of Poland's competitiveness and exclusion of Poland and the whole Central and Eastern Europe from the gas delivery route. Thus, the aim of the government should be to reduce the dependence of Poland on the supply and supply routes of natural gas, which is part of the Energy Union project. However, contrary to the policy adopted by the European Union, measures are being taken to further monopolise the market by gas from Russia. That's what the project is for. Nord Stream 2 and expansion of gas supply by OPAL pipeline. Efforts should therefore continue in the government, parliamentary field and international organisations and use all diplomatic opportunities to prevent these harmful activities for Poland and Central and Eastern Europe as a whole. In conclusion, I would also like to thank the government, thank the Minister for all the measures that have been taken over the last time, which aim to increase the energy sovereignty of our country, and I would like to stress that these measures should continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u89	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Agnieszka Pomaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I wanted to ask the marshal, Minister Waszczykowski, to explain why he left during the speech by Grzegorz Schetin, the leader of the biggest opposition party. Is it true that you went out to meet the Prime Minister of Ireland, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] As you said, Marshal Brudziński, who constantly emphasizes the need to tell the truth, did you leave to hold a press conference? Perhaps you left because Grzegorz Schetyn started asking you uncomfortable questions? That's one thing. [[Game in the hall, bell, applause]] Secondly, referring to the Minister's exposé, I think that the best review is given by the members of the Law and Justice Club who did not refer to the content of the exposé in most cases, only referring to the rule of the Civic Platform or trying, quite inefficiently, to defend your previous foreign policy. I think it is worth mentioning in this regard, for example, the speech by Mrs Gosievska, who said that you are finally leading... [[Member.]] ...real foreign policy. Well, Minister - actions, not words. I'd say you're just leading a theoretical foreign policy. A foreign policy based on the pictures you presented in this book. By the way, it's a pity there's not one such symbolic photograph of Minister Morawiecki with George Clooney, because we have a complement. [[Applause]] This policy. [[Bravo!]] Mrs Gosievska... [[Mr Gosiewska.]] ...she also said that the foreign policy of the current government is being disrupted by national politicians. I wanted to ask if you meant Mr Jarosław Kaczyński by referring to national policies, because he is the one who most often presents foreign policy, including other policies, and they are indeed guidelines for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Minister! This infantile, slightly narcissistic book you gave to Members today is unfortunately also a symbol of your foreign policy. I regret, because we should all think about what is ahead of us, we should seriously think about the assumptions of Polish foreign policy, and unfortunately today's debate in the implementation of the PiS parliamentarians has shown that we will rather continue to think about what is behind us, and this unfortunately will not lead to anything good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u91	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Simon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u92	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to say, so substantive was this speech as the dart of a resolution on the sovereignty of Poland, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] which you intended to do in the name, I understand, of defending the interests of Poland according to the Civic Platform. A few words about Polish-German relations, which I will say as head of the bilateral Polish-German group. Mr Schetyna spoke a lot about these relationships as a pearl. We supposedly didn't care about these relationships, so it's worth looking at where these relationships were taken over. Poland's visit to Berlin, which is no longer valid today, but when we took over the government, was the embassy building 200 m from the Brandenburg Gate, really the ruin of the building, undeveloped for years, about which the government of the Civic Platform, so supposedly caring for good relations with Germany, could not take care of... [[Voice from the hall: It was a shame.]] ...and Germans and tourists from other countries strolling around Unter den Linden at the Brandenburg Gate asked what the ruin was standing there, and they received the answer: This is the embassy of Poland. This was Polish diplomacy in Polish-German relations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In the year 25 years of the treaty, contrary to what you said, contacts were very intense. In January there was a visit by Minister Steinmeier to Warsaw, in February - the visit of Prime Minister Szydło in Berlin, in April - the joint opening of the Polish-German Forum by two foreign ministers, in June - a mutual visit of the presidents in Berlin and Warsaw, a large intergovernmental consultation which has not taken place for several years: 18 representatives of Polish ministries in Berlin, 15 from the German side and concrete effects of interministerial talks. In August, Angela Merkel arrived at the top of the V4; as I understand it, she came here by accident because you said that the Visegrad Group was an entity, a format without much significance, [[Applause]] So she's probably traveling by country. In September, Minister Waszczykowski and Minister Steinmeier opened the OSCE conference in Warsaw. In November the Germans organized a big meeting for Polonia; while appreciating this activity of the government, Minister Steinmeier was present at this meeting. Finally, in December - in Warsaw and Berlin - a year of celebration with two presidents was closed. Not much? Poor care for Polish interests and the intensity of contacts? It was this intensity of contacts that made us successful. A few days ago, Germany supported the conclusions of the informal summit in Malta, close to the Polish point of view on migrants, and is no longer pushing for automatic relocation of refugees. Like Poland, Germany sees threats from Russia, they are still in favour of maintaining sanctions in the face of the situation in Ukraine; this would not be without the activity of the Polish government. Germany sees the need for reforms in the European Union and our positions on this matter are closer than a few months ago. Finally, they appreciate the importance of Polonia, organizing the first such big meeting with the head of their own diplomacy in years. Finally, they committed themselves to establishing the scale of support for teaching Polish - a thing that has not been arranged for years - so that we will know how much they spend for this purpose. This is the great efforts of Minister Dziedziczak. Let me remind you that Poland spends PLN 145 million on teaching German for the German minority, and so far we did not know how much Germans spend on teaching German for Poles. These contacts finally allowed for such a successful and constructive visit by Chancellor Merkel the day before yesterday in Warsaw. If you do not believe and do not see these successes, because you do not trust us, at least trust the Germans who say that Poland is an important partner today, without which European challenges could not be met. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] There was talk of the Weimar Triangle, there were allegations that he was not active enough. The Polish government took over the Weimar Triangle in agonal state, it was a patient in clinical death, and today you are accusing us that he is still in hospital. Yeah, that's right. We want him to be in better condition, we treated him hard, he's in better condition, but I don't think it's really our fault that the treatment process is still going on since we took him in agony. In June there was a meeting of ministers of European affairs of the Weimar Triangle, in August - an anniversary meeting of the heads of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Weimar, in September, which is important, in Kiev, in the format of the Weimar Triangle, in order to talk about Ukraine. The Weimar Triangle will operate more effectively. After the election in France, I believe the most resistant, relatively least interested in this format corner of this Triangle... [[Le Pen's friend?]] ...will also be more active. It is also the activity of our establishment in Berlin under the new ambassador - since August, so he did not have much time, but in a short time created a network of contacts with the most important figures of political, social, economic and media life. He systematically organizes debates, publishes in German media, has already organized three exhibitions in which he cares about the memory of Polish history: "Exile 1939" - about the expulsions of Poles from Wielkopolska, "Like the Phoenix from the ashes" - about the reconstruction of destroyed Warsaw, "They risked their lives" - about Poles saving Jews. It also takes care of the new quality of contacts with Polonia. He co-organized the Congress of Polish Organizations in Germany, often met with Polish organizations. At his initiative in December, a concert summarizing the anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the Treaty with the participation of the presidents of Poland and Germany took place in Berlin City Hall. Undoubtedly, the great challenge facing him, which was finally announced after so many years of waiting, is to start building a new embassy, which will be a real card for Unter den Linden. The new ambassador will oversee it. Finally, in conclusion, I will say that the Ministry also supported parliamentary diplomacy. Here, of course, the main actors were the marshals and gentlemen of the Vice-Marshals, but also bilateral groups. An example of such successful cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Polish-German bilateral group is the project of the Institute of Łukasiewicz. It's a project that fights the lying history of the Polish camps. The project under the patronage of the President of the Republic is supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose partner is the parliamentary group. It is a trilingual website - in Polish, German and English - and a publication that goes to German and European politicians and media. I have had the opportunity to publish such a publication as you can see here, it is English, it is also in German, and to pass on to Deputy Chief of German Ministry Stephan Steinlein. In 2017, we face challenges. It is an effective security policy and a common front with Germany against the threat from the East, followed by a sensible energy policy, so our consistent opposition to Nord Stream 2 and reminding it of what happened during the visit by Chancellor Merkel. It is a reform of the European Union which refers to the voice and will of the citizens, but respects the powers and sovereignty of the States. It cares about the right of the Polish minority in Germany to an equal level of funding for language learning, as well as a status that this minority still does not have. Good relations with Germany after the year of the Treaty anniversary is a good starting point to meet these challenges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u93	Thank you. And I ask Mr Tomasz Lenz to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Waszczykowski was delighted with the speech by the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence, Mr Michał Jach, but I must say that I am disappointed in this speech. I'll tell you why. Well, I remember very well that the parliamentary delegation representing all the parliamentary clubs at the invitation of the American Embassy before the NATO summit in Warsaw stayed, among others. At a meeting in Brussels with NATO representatives, she was also in the base of warships in Spain, where we met with American sailors who presented us with a defence system, a missile shield system. I remember very well that all parliamentarians, everyone, PSL, Platforms, PiS, Modern, sought the best results of the NATO Summit in Warsaw. We discussed how to achieve the best effect for our country, and today the chairman of the National Defence Committee is part of the policy of the Cepa which PiS represents in this Chamber, trying to say that only PiS was interested in making this summit work. Mr Halicki also spoke about this. Mr President of the Committee on National Defence, saying that it was a problem that the National Stadium was not booked to the NATO summit is ridiculous because the National Stadium belongs to the state and is managed by a State Treasury company. It's not a restaurant, there's no need to bunk. Secondly, if someone says that you did not know who to call before this summit, I inform you that there are calls to all military attachés at all NATO embassies in Warsaw. These are basic things, Minister, and it's really worth learning. I'd like to draw your attention. also to the fact that Mr Głębocki, as he says about reporting on Poland, is probably saying that you reported that there was an assassination in Smolensk, which even Mr Macierewicz does not believe anymore, that you reported that elections were being falsified in Poland, that you organized happenings and supported Poland in the European Parliament. That's what you can talk about. That's where you hit the jackpot. That's what you did, indeed. [[Applause]] You also said that Minister Waszczykowski's policy was a success. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No, it's a drunken policy - from wall to wall. First of all, your main partner is Hungary, and now they're not. You're trying to build a policy with Great Britain, it's Brexit. You have no one left to build this policy with.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u95	I regret to inform you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u96	Your Prime Minister said that the election in the United States is a choice between cholera and plague.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u97	...that the time spent in this debate...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u98	Really from wall to wall. And you don't know what's gonna happen next year because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u99	...for the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u100	...your statement has shown nothing concrete about this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Shame, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u101	In view of the above, the Civic Platform has already exhausted all the time allocated to the Civic Platform Club. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish foreign policy in 2006 was very strongly directed at Polish and Polish affairs abroad, which was given priority in the government's activities, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Polish diplomatic and consulates. Doors for Polish people around the world have been widely opened by Polish diplomacy. Cases concerning our compatriots and their presence in the world are of fundamental importance today for the Polish state's right, they form a fundamental part of it. Our contacts with Polonia and Poles abroad are as intense as ever. Meetings with Polonia and Polish environments have become a permanent element of the foreign visitation programme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Polish affairs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have taken over its powers as Secretary of State. Today our compatriots know very well that the Polish government and Polish diplomacy will not be indifferent to the fate of Poles living even in the most distant parts of the globe, that they will consistently respond to violations of the rights and freedoms of residents, national minorities, for example in Lithuania and Belarus. Over the past year, we have been extremely intensive in claiming the rights of Poles in the East, as well as the rights of our compatriots living and working in Western European countries. Intensive dialogue with Belarus led to silence of harassment against activists of the Polish Union in Belarus, and issues of education in Lithuania, Polish education in Lithuania, have been the subject of many political interventions. Following the attacks against Poles in the UK, rapid intervention was undertaken at ministerial level, including foreign affairs. In cooperation with Polonia, a new look at the opportunities it brings for the implementation of the key tasks of the Polish state in the international arena, especially in terms of shaping the positive image of Poland in the world and defending its good name. During the last year, the activity of Polish Councils operating at diplomatic institutions has been intensified. It will, as we hear, be developed and it seems to have another good effect. As for tomorrow's challenges, it is a fundamental issue as regards the East, to support Poles in the East in their daily lives and to strengthen their ties with their homeland for generations to come. It is also important to support young economic emigration and its contacts with Poland and mother tongue, among others. in Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and wherever necessary. Another challenge, an extraordinary challenge, is to support the teaching of Polish language and the transfer of knowledge about Poland. A government team was launched last year to deal with the strategy of teaching and promoting Polish language in the world. The Ministry placed particular emphasis on historical education of the young generation of Polish and Polish people abroad, future ambassadors of Polishness in the world, so as to strengthen and shape the ability to defend the good name of Poland. We will want to make full use of this potential for the benefit of our country and our fellow countrymen outside the country. However, we also expect that Poles will want to return to Poland and contribute to its comprehensive development, not only those from the West, but also those from the East. I think it's a nation that has 40%. his citizens outside the country without any Polish document, he owes them at least a good repatriation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u103	Thank you. And Mrs Barbara Bubula, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Out of the wide range of activities of our foreign services, special attention should be paid to what is used to be called public diplomacy. This is a team of works in which it is especially necessary to catch up with many years, fight against stereotypes and activity of hostile Polish environments. We need active, active policy, support for our friends, informal ambassadors, we need to use a reinforced network of Polish diplomatic offices. This is indeed the case, as demonstrated by the concrete achievements in 2016 and the concrete plans for 2017. I would like to stress in particular that recognition, support and strengthening, regardless of political strength, deserve the achievements and plans of the Ministry in the following areas: taking care of the good name of Poland and its impeccable image, promoting Polish history in foreign opinion-making environments, restoring the memory of Polish Righteous and supporting the development of Polish language teaching and Polish studies in foreign academic centres. The biggest challenge of Polish historical diplomacy is to effectively pass on to the public abroad through diplomatic institutions the truth about the contemporary history of Poland and the former history of Poland. In 2016, one of the most important projects was the promotion of the opening of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews. The Ulm families in Markowa. Nearly 40 foreign offices of the Republic of Poland from 29 countries were actively involved in this project. The activities of Polish historical diplomacy in 2016 are special activities during the World Youth Days, when the Ministry created and distributed a publication, available in paper and online form, with a total of 750 thousand. copies of 1050 years. A guide to the history of Poland was also created for those who took the pilgrims, titled "Ambassador of Polishness." Next year, the primary task is to present Poland on the eve of the century of regaining independence. In 2017, Polish diplomacy wants to focus on figures such as Tadeusz Kościuszko, Józef Piłsudski or General Haller. There will also be co-organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs large international conferences: near KL Gusen, the place of the execution of Polish intelligence during the Second War, and in Rzeszów, concerning the Polish Righteous, connected with the first anniversary of the opening of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews. In view of these actions, in particular, the opposition should unite in Polish foreign policy with Law and Justice, and we hear only during this debate today from you that it is all exclusive on your side, and after ours it is only to be ashamed. It's time for you to stop taking this approach. This foreign policy has led directly and indirectly to decisions such as Brexit and the refugee crisis. Foreign policy of the Government of Law and Justice fortunately has left these errors, builds on permanent foundations, where there is room for national dignity and a desire to gain friends around common values. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u105	Mr Przemysław Czarnecki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u106	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to refer to the exposé of Mr Witold Waszczykowski, Minister of Foreign Affairs. But before I go to the point, I have to regret this brook, or actually the sewer of accusations and insinuations from the opposition. International politics is not about who likes whom, but about whether you are respected and whether you have a real impact on your decisions. In all rankings of the most disliked countries, the USA is leading. Is this supposed to be evidence of a weakness in the international position of the United States? We are a nation to be reckoned with, and here I will concern some of the opposition Members, we are a country with which our partners count, which is the best example of this week's visit by Chancellor Merkel. 2016 was undoubtedly a good year in Polish foreign policy and no opposition Members will interfere with this. It is worth noting that despite the unstable political situation in the world and despite some opposition procedures, Minister Waszczykowski fulfilled his plans and intentions from last year's exposé, for which I would like to thank him from this place. Last year has passed under the sign of intensifying Polish foreign policy in many directions, both those considered traditional so far and those considered more exotic so far. Moreover, the Minister's words in today's exposé clearly show that the increase in the activity of the Polish government in the field of foreign policy does not have a single dimension, but is to be a long-term trend. The most significant example of this is the opening of four new diplomatic missions this year: two embassies opened last month, the Republic of Panama and the United Republic of Tanzania, as well as two consulates, the United States and the United Kingdom. The reopening of the post in Panama, after more than 8 years of break, was preceded by a meeting - for the first time at such a high level - the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda and the President of the Republic of Panama Juan Carlos Varela, which took place on the occasion of World Youth Days. The strategic location of Panama and the fact that almost 1/4 of the world commercial fleet are registered in Panama justify the decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to open an embassy in Panama as much as possible. An additional factor that strengthens the validity of this decision is the desire to provide adequate care for Polish pilgrims who are about to go to Panama for World Youth Days in 2019. The Republic of Panama already has an embassy in Warsaw since 2007. The second of the newly opened or actually reopened embassy is the embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Tanzania, which is more than three times the size of Poland, is certainly a very exotic country for many Poles, but we must remember that of more than 50 million inhabitants it is the sixth or even the fifth most populated African country. Also, the rate of economic growth, the gross domestic product at 7 percentage points, which is one of the highest in sub-Saharan Africa, makes the re-opening of the Embassy in Tanzania an all-right move. The fourth consulate in the United States, which will be opened in the fourth largest American city in Houston, will join the consular centers this month. Houston's position in the economy and economy of the United States is not subject to any discussion, and the most striking example is that the state of Texas, of which Houston is the largest city, would be treated as an independent state in the 12th world economy. The last of the planned diplomatic missions is the Consulate General in Belfast. It is also worth paying attention to the announcement of raising the consular agency in Iraqi Irbil to the level of the Consulate General, which could translate into an improvement in relations with almost 30 million Kurdish communities. The fact that the announcement of increasing the activity of the Polish foreign service through the extension of the network of diplomatic posts is not a word without coverage is best evidenced by the last year of activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The reopening of the Dakar embassy in Senegal and the start of full operation by the Chinese Consulate General Chengdu are the best examples of this. The part of my speech so far was to a certain extent enumerative. A similar character is a reflection that necessarily comes to mind. Congo, Cambodia, Laos, Yemen, Costa Rica, Panama, Senegal, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Uruguay, Mongolia, Turkmenistan, Afghanistan. What do these 13 countries have in common? In all of them, Polish embassies were liquidated during the 8 years of the PO-PSL coalition, which means that almost 200 million inhabitants of these countries were deprived of direct contact with the Polish state. Members of the Civic Platform will be spared the full list of liquidated consulates, as they have a total of 16 such facilities that have been decommissioned in cities inhabited by 85 million inhabitants. In return, only four such facilities were created during the PO-PSL coalition. It is a pity that there is no Minister Radosław Sikorski in the plenary room - the person directly responsible for the liquidation of 32 embassies, consulates and Polish institutes, i.e. the destruction of the network of Polish diplomatic offices - as he would have the opportunity to explain his decisions. I think everyone in this room wants Polish foreign policy to be effective and effective. One of the most important means for such a policy is the extensive and professional network of diplomatic offices. We don't have to rediscover America because it's enough to use proven patterns. If we want to be part of the first international policy league - here I have to worry about what some people have, that is the goal and this is subject to the work of the Foreign Minister - we have to equal the best. Of course, I do not expect that we will have a number of embassies comparable to France, 163 embassies or with Germany, 153 embassies, but that today our network of diplomatic offices is compared with Hungary, a country four times smaller, or Lithuania having the same embassies as Poland with more than ten times less demographic and economic potential. Therefore, Minister Witold Waszczykowski's policy to increase the activity of Polish diplomacy can count on full support of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice not only during the period covered by today's exposé, but also in the long term. Directions of playback and development of Polish diplomatic institutions, such as embassies in the Philippines and Mongolia, or - in the event of an improvement in security - in Syria and Libya, are as much an expression of the Polish state of affairs as possible. Among other initiatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, special attention should be paid to those related to openness to the problems and needs of citizens. Public diplomacy is an important, not always appreciated element of foreign policy. Therefore, initiatives such as the Consular Information Centre in the United Kingdom and Ireland, together with an integrated on-call phone, will be a great support both for everyday consular matters and, unfortunately, for repeated attacks on Poles, who - which is worth noting - are already receiving full support from the Polish embassy today. Another one of those... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[I'll pay attention, because my friend is...]] That's why I'm trying so hard to put it all together pretty quickly. Support of the Polish community in the field of legal and psychological counseling in the Polish language, i.e. continuation of programmes already implemented in the UK, Germany and France; assistance in matters concerning the interference of foreign social services in the exercise of parental authority by Polish citizens residing abroad - is a very important social issue and is pleased that the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs is acting decisively and will defend the interests of Polish citizens - the opening of the Polish Institute in Tbilisi, which can only improve the already very good relations with the Georgian people - these are very important issues and, which is very happy, they have been expressed in the Minister's exposition. Therefore, the effects of the actions of Minister Witold Waszczykowski and his entire office can be safely counted by the year of good change in Polish politics, including the foreign one. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u107	I invite Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] [[Oh, Marshal, two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u108	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! 39 seconds is a relatively short time, but one issue was not raised during today's debate. Well, foreign policy, international policy we conduct on very many levels, in very many fields: this is the level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that is the level of individual ministries, Mr. Marshal Terlecki spoke about the parliamentary level. I would like, on behalf of myself, but also of my parliamentary club, to address these parliamentarians, these Members, those politicians who have conducted foreign policy as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] outside the existing institutional system and they did everything to make the Polish case public as much as possible outside Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u109	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u110	...so they did a lot of bad things. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u111	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. First Mrs. Joanna Lichocka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a short and quite practical question. The Minister in his exposé spoke about many efforts made by the Polish government to ensure that Poles who live in the UK do not lose their rights after Brexit. And I'd like to ask you about those who would like to go to college in the future. Since September 2018, British universities will be twice as expensive for Polish students as at the moment. At the moment, Poles pay as much for their studies as the citizens of Great Britain, and this is expected to change since September 2018 and this sum is to double. I am asking for attention to be paid to those people who would like to study in the UK, because this, as you know, is one of the best universities in Europe and it would be good for our young people to still have the chance to complete their education here in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I would like to know what we will do to help Polish students in the UK after Brexit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u113	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u114	Dear Marshal! Minister! The Minister mentioned energy policy in his report, which included: He's going to take care of the ministry. You also mentioned ratification of the Paris climate agreement. We all remember the famous press conference after the return of Minister Szyszka to the Prime Minister, which presented the excellent results of the signed agreement of November 2015, which included. committed the European Union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 40% by 2030. This agreement subsequently became the basis of the so-called Commission's introduction on 30 November 2016. the winter package. And what does this winter package come up with? There is a reduction in public funding, for example. Construction of a power plant [[♪ The bell ♪]] based on stone coal. What happened, Minister? Where was the Minister then? What have you done not to get those records there, even though the Minister of Energy clearly states that a year of consultations on these documents...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u115	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u116	...and they've been involved in these conversations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u117	Thank you very much. I would ask you very much to comply with the time limit. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Let me be brief: Russia. In your brochure, which counts 56 pages, p. 34, there is an Eastern Policy slogan. I think it's not enough because Russia is a difficult partner, but it's still our neighbor. It's very different with the neighbors. We can argue, love, fight, but it's worth talking about, and I feel like we're all talking about a problem right now: Russia, and your speech lacks a plan, a way out, a solution to this problem, because it's a challenge. For us. And here I bow to you as a minister from me as a Member of Warmia and Mazury: firstly, a small border traffic, because it is such a gateway to contacts with Russia, secondly, nevertheless, I ask you - it is already for all Members - we do not still have the bilateral group Poland - Russia. We have Poland - Jamaica, we have Poland - China etc., [[♪ The bell ♪]] we do not have Poland - Russia. Do we want to build an Eastern policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u120	Thank you. Dear Minister, Let me read a sentence: At the moment, the removal of the disputed points from the Polish-Lithuanian agenda depends solely on the goodwill of our neighbours and can only be done through internal regulations of the Republic of Lithuania. It's a white flag, isn't it? It's a white flag, because that means we can't force the rights of our minority on the Lithuanian side. I'd like to ask you if you know who wrote this. This was written by Mr Jan Dziedziczak on 21 December 2016. He's the one who put up that white flag. I would therefore like to ask when these disputed matters with the Lithuanians will be handled. What's the agenda for the meetings, any schedule? These people are waiting for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u121	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party. There isn't. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. There isn't either. Mr Robert Winnicki... [[I'm sorry.]] [[Please.]] Good. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u122	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! I listened in today's speech by the Minister for Information that we will apply the principle of sovereign choice of the people in matters of Eastern policy, especially to the closest neighbours - countries that were once Soviet or Soviet republics. And that is a very wise rule, there is no doubt, provided that the nation has the opportunity to speak on the fate of its state. I am referring specifically to Belarus, which is an important, close - also heart, not only territorially - neighbour. I feel like this Polish politician has made a 180-degree return. I have been carrying this gift for years from the Belarusian opposition, which is the white and red and white flag of independent Belarus, to remember that besides Alexander Lukashenka and the administration, there is still a Belarusian opposition living there, which must not be forgotten. I would like to ask: will you - and your policy - be [[♪ The bell ♪]] uth remember those democrats who fight for a free election in Belarus? Nothing else. It's not about overthrowing Lukashenka, it's about being able to take part in elections that the OSCE will consider compatible...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u123	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u124	...with European or global, democratic standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u125	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! My question to Minister Waszczykowski concerns a vision, because that is the exposé on foreign policy. What is the vision, what will the future of Polish foreign policy be if two possible things are fulfilled? First of all, what happens if, as a result of the transfer of forces to the Pacific United States under the leadership of Donald Trump, they decide to withdraw their troops from Poland? You place these troops as the crowning argument of our security. Secondly, what happens if Marine Le Pen wins the presidential election and the European Union disintegrates? What is the vision of a Polish, sovereign foreign policy, which is not based on international agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The safety of the country is mainly associated with the lack of danger from other countries. In a situation where the third year of war continues in Ukraine, fueled by the Russian Federation, the threat to Poland increases and is very real. This poses new challenges for Poland. It is also difficult to ignore the strengthening and expansion of the Western War District of the Russian Federation. The militarisation of the royal circuit continues, i.e. deployment of new types of weapons, i.e. medium-range missiles capable of transmitting nuclear charges. We also know that the President of Russia has signed a decree to suspend the agreement with the United States for the disposal of the plutonium. I have a question for you, Minister. What actions did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs take to increase the security of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can we today feel safe against the aggressive attitude of the Russian Federation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u129	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you are responsible for the image of Poland. In 2017, as you say, you will focus on promoting Poland as a creative and innovative country. But in 2016, the government's actions led to Poland being shaped as a country ignoring the recommendations of the Venice Commission, non-chalant to the recommendations of the democratizing European Commission, creating a budget on the border of legality. Indeed, it takes a lot of creativity to shape the image of Poland as a country in which the constitution guarantees legal stability of decisions. How, therefore, do you intend to promote Poland as a country where it is safe to invest? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u131	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. Mr. Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u132	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have the impression, Minister, that you're very far-fetched. You think success is a success, but it's not true. You're moving out. us to the outskirts of the Union. The position of Poland has never been so weak. Slowly, ladies and gentlemen, you are moving Poland out of the Union. [[Oh, my God! Do you hear me?]] In many cases, the European institutions treat you as an enemy. All you can do is criticize, block, and consolidate the division between the center and the periphery. You're not a good strategist. Until last year, you set the example of Britain and assumed - as Prime Minister Szydło assumed - that it was our greatest ally, only that this ally is leaving the European Union and instead of promoting closer cooperation with the Union, you agree to represent the interests of the British, very different in many cases from ours. And now the question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you mean, today, that Poland will be able to repair the European Union? I'm afraid that this renovation of yours isn't a construction disaster. Thank you. [[Sin!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u133	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the Seym, and in particular in the deregulation committee, work is being done on a law commonly called a pharmacy for a pharmacist. This is one of the many laws that we are working on in the Polish Parliament, and there would probably be no reason to talk more about it if it weren't for huge interest and powerful lobbying. It is probably not surprising here either, because it is a certain attempt to regulate or change the market with the value estimated at about 35 billion PLN. My surprise, but I think it's not just me, but it's lobbying and interference directly in the process of making foreign embassies law. Yes, the ambassadors of the four states have even allowed themselves to be taught to Members. To be honest, I've been in Parliament for a while now, and I'm meeting with something like this for the first time. In view of this situation, I have a few questions for the Minister. Does the Minister have any knowledge of this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this the Minister's standard? Are such embassy interventions an accepted form of lobbying? Does Poland use this type of activity? If so, could you give the Minister an example? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Pieta, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Please, Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u136	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Dialogue with Polish neighbours is extremely important, at many diplomatic and working levels. More than a year ago, Professor Adam Rotfeld resigned as President of the Polish-Russian Difficulty Group. From now on, this group has practically failed. Why is the Government of Law and Justice having difficulty launching its work and has its new President been appointed? How many members of the group have been mentioned during the so-called rule. A good change? Second question. Can the change of President in the United States involve a relaxation of sanctions against Russia? If yes, please answer the question in which formats Poland negotiates whether it talks about sanctions against Russia. Are we also having a dialogue with the United States in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u137	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The security of the Republic is based on several pillars, not only transatlantic relations, but not only NATO, but also our membership of the European Union. Minister, in 2002, when Poland joined the European Union, the President of the Council of Ministers appointed a body called the Council of Ministers. Integration, National Council for European Integration. Isn't it time to reunite all the environments, including the opposition, and also the parliamentary majority, in such a body, to discuss the directions in which Poland will be going, the direction it will give to this Union, because we are a large country and we really should have this influence. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u139	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask, what about Poland's cooperation within the framework of the so-called. Eurocorpus. Many bitter words have been made to the previous government today, but it was the former government of the PO-PSL coalition that took quite firm steps to strengthen cooperation and Polish participation in Eurocorp. It seems to be a very good initiative, especially in view of the concerns raised by the North Atlantic Pact, as a response to the challenges of defence, on the one hand, on the other hand, the migration crisis and threats on the outskirts of the European Union. Second question. Today, the Minister has not mentioned anything about the policy of the Polish government towards Turkey, which on the one hand is struggling with internal crises, but on the other hand, also within its geopolitical position, [[♪ The bell ♪]] plays an important role. I would very much ask for an answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The war in Syria, which has been going on for years, imposes a duty of solidarity and humanitarian assistance on those who are affected by it. The Syrians cry out for help, but they want to be helped in their home, in their country. To this day, we still hear a beautiful testimony from a young Syrian woman, Aleppo, from World Youth Days. Among the Syrians there are also those seeking refuge in other countries, 1/4 looking for security asylum in Europe. In 2016, the Council Poland allocated nearly PLN 35 million to humanitarian aid to victims of the war in Syria. Minister, how much funding is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs planning to allocate to humanitarian aid to Syrian refugees in 2017? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u143	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask about the funds allocated to Polish aid, referring in part to the previous question. In 2016, the Polish aid in the foreign minister's budget amounted to PLN 113 million and was higher by PLN 10 million compared to 2015. That was the decision of the previous PO-PSL government. More, within the framework of the multiannual plan adopted by the previous government, it was decided that the Polish aid budget would grow every year. Why didn't the PiS government leave this commitment and raise the Polish aid budget in 2017? Does the Minister intend to increase expenditure for these purposes and since when? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u145	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern Club. There is no Member. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u146	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I'm asking you the following questions. How do you see the further development of relations with the Central and Japanese States, and in what specific areas is the government planning to step up cooperation with these countries over 2017? Question two. How will the Minister explain and justify the fact of such a very deep and dedicated friendship between the peoples of Poland and Hungary, especially in view of the recent visit of the President of the Russian Federation to Hungary and the issue of ensuring energy security for Hungary? Third question. Can the Minister explain to the High House the consequences and consequences of strengthening Russia's presence in the Middle East, of course with regard to possible consequences and consequences for our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u147	Thank you very much. I invite you, Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister two questions on German issues. Germany is our main trading partner, this country, which is the leader of the European Union, it is also our neighbour. In his exposé, the Minister said today: Poland seeks to restore the balance of the Member States in the European Union. We will counteract Europe's different speeds. At the same time, leading German politicians talk about Europe at two speeds, about integration of the kernel. The question is: What is the actual state of Polish-German relations? Second question. Professor Andrzej Przyłębski, Polish Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany, announced the construction of a new embassy in Berlin in his exposé. This need to build a new embassy is undisputed - a prestigious new place, a new unit. Like he said, he's on his way to work. And I wanted to ask you what happened to the annulment of the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the selection of the general contractor of the new embassy in Berlin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u149	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask about the safety of our citizens in Ukraine. Again, we have information that there has been a worsening of the conflict and that there is a lack of security in the east of Ukraine. I would like to ask whether we have such information, whether Polish people living in Donbasa or in the immediate vicinity of the conflict with a request for evacuation or resettlement to Poland are reporting to our Ministry of Foreign Affairs or our diplomatic offices in Ukraine. Let me just remind you that in 2015 the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party organized twice this type of evacuation. Question: "Do we have signals about such reports and such needs at the moment?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u151	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is hard to resist the impression that Polish diplomacy under the rule of the PiS directs history and hysteria instead of cold calculation. On the one hand, current relations with Ukraine depend on assessments of difficult history from more than 70 years ago and Kiev's cut-off from the UPA, on the other hand, relations with the Union and its countries have been leading hysteria for more than a year. First, the PiS government broke up with the principle of solidarity by refusing any assistance from EU partners on refugees. Then, by breaking the contract on the caravan, instead of doing it in accordance with civilized principles, he insulted France and insulted her. The whole EU policy, based on hysterical concerns about sovereignty, was based on the UK, which is leaving the European Union. Diplomacy under the guidance of the PiS has as much in common with Realpolitik as as astrology with astronomy. Vocabulary is partly the same, but conclusions and observations are a dream... [[Same thing.]] ...they exist only in the heads of PiS politicians. Therefore, in the face of the last announcements of the PiS politicians, we should ask: What exactly does the government want to achieve by reopening [[♪ The bell ♪]] discussion of the European Treaties? What is the PiS going to do in a situation where the opening of this discussion... [[Keep your voice down.]] ...will lead Poland to the margin of European integration? And where is the Polish state right here? [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marcin Duszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Does Poland support Ukrainian society in the face of conflict in the east of Ukraine? What action is being taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with frequent phrases such as the Polish concentration camps? Can the Ministry of Foreign Affairs somehow support the organisers of the campaign to Polish camps financed only by Internet users? And one last question, Minister. How does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs support the work of Polish missionaries in developing countries today? On this occasion, it should be mentioned that the development aid funds were able to build a school in Tanzania open several days ago, together with the Aid Department. We thank Minister Witold and Minister Jan Dziedziczak on behalf of the missionaries for their support so far and we declare our cooperation within the Parliamentary Group for Affairs. Supporting Missionary Works. We're at your disposal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs finance the competition "Support for Democracy" which is announced annually by the International Solidarity Foundation under the authority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Let me remind you that the competition is about allocating grants to NGOs carrying out tasks in dozens of countries in the world where there are problems with democracy and human rights. The Foundation has not yet announced such a competition for 2017, although it is usually announced in November or December of the previous year. Doesn't the PiS government simply want to support democracy because it has a problem with respect for democracy in Poland? Second question. You stressed that the priority of the Polish government's actions is the repair of the European Union. In my opinion, in order to be effective in repairing the European Union, it is necessary [[♪ The bell ♪]] follow EU standards at home as well. Do you not see that in these actions there is no synergy with what the government is doing in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's debate shows how the Polish diplomacy suffered a great loss in foreign policy last year. Probably one of the main reasons for this is the bad HR policy. Instead of dismissing Minister Waszczykowski, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was cleaned up. I would like to ask what is the scale of dismissals in diplomatic offices and in the entire Ministry, including ambassadors and consuls. Is it true that, in view of the planned revision of the Foreign Service Act, up to 1/4 people can be set aside? The Minister told us that this brochure shows how strong Poland is on the international stage. It's best to say, Minister, your picture on page 30. We're definitely not in the big leagues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Catherine Czochar. There isn't. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform. Absent. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. Excuse me, Mr Michael Szczerba is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u160	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister Waszczykowski said: "The cooperation with Great Britain has been strengthened. We know about the critical voices, whether it is worth working with the country that is leaving the Union. It's worth it. Minister, not only is it worth it, but it has to be done, and it has to be done effectively. Yesterday he proved you couldn't do it. Instead of choosing pictures for your publication, a rather narcissistic photographer, you had to take care of almost 900 thousand. our compatriots living in the UK. The Minister in his exposé did not care about their rights. He did not mention that yesterday, at the request of the Government of Theresa May, British Conservative Members rejected the amendment concerning their rights, the preservation of their rights after the UK left the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What did you do about it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to congratulate Minister Waszczykowski on one thing. In December 2015, you invited the Venice Commission to Poland. This is your absolute success. Congratulations on that. We'll keep that in mind for a long time. You were indeed defending Polish democracy at that moment. On the other hand, I would like to ask why there was not a word in your exposé about culture. Are you ashamed of Polish culture? Well, instead of the Weimar Triangle that you're demoting... The Polish Theatre from Wrocław presented at the Odeon Theatre in Paris Wycinka, directed by Krystian Lupa, we were in Beijing with Adam Mickiewicz. Remember that. And besides, there's another very important thing. There are two state rations: the PiS-owska state rations, the PiS state rations, and the Polish state rations. These are two different state rations. [[Applause]] [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Czerwińska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I ask the question: What practical effects, the effects of the amendment of the Polish Charter Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am president of the Polish-French Parliamentary Group, so I will ask for cooperation with France and about the Weimar Triangle. Minister, you said that Poland was interested in best relations with France. What the PiS government has done for a year shows one thing - you are only interested in good relations, and you are doing something completely different. The style in which he was broken, as you put it, a single commercial contract, has caused a clear cooling of relations with France. The proof is, for example, this publication - five photographs: one of February, four of June 13, 2016. It'd be hard to find anything since September. Why are there no more regular meetings of foreign ministers? This is such a good year of cooperation with France. Next question: What steps will you propose to continue using the Weimar Triangle? Last year in Paris there was a meeting within the Triangle at the level of the Sejm's chiefs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Bundestag and the National Assembly. Our allies have made it clear that Poland is entering a one-way road, and in international contacts it should be a two-way road. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question: "Why did the Polish government withdraw so much from Eastern policy, the policy of supporting democratic change in the Eastern Partnership countries?" The current Ukrainian government, the current President of Ukraine, has certainly been the most politically determined since Ukraine's independence to actually bring Ukraine through this difficult path of transformation, and Russia is now the most determined since Ukraine's independence to destabilize Ukraine. And I have the impression that Poland has withdrawn from the policy of supporting the process of transformation of Ukraine and this strategic interest of Poland has changed into historical policy. Historical policy has come to the fore in our relations with Ukraine, and our business, which is stable, democratic Ukraine, has gone further. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Questions: What are the tools? Are you even going to continue your support policy and what will be the role of the foundation for European democracy in this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Entrepreneurs' groups address, among others: to me on the delay in issuing visas for Ukrainian citizens who would like to come to Poland and work here for a long time. So far, there has been no positive change in this area, at least for a few months now, so I wanted to ask why there are these difficulties and with the lodging of visas, and with the process of examining them, why it is so extended and what the Polish consular services intend to do to change this state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A year ago, in your exposé, you were kind to say that we are not avoiding the commitments made by the previous government on the issue of relocation of refugees. Today you mentioned the Holy Father Francis and his visit to Poland, and after all, the Holy Father called for the reception of refugees. Last year, however, even the reception of refugees, which Caritas Poland wanted to organize in the form of humanitarian corridors in cooperation with Caritas in Syria, was refused. I wanted to ask you if, in the face of this huge humanitarian disaster that we are seeing in the Middle East, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in view of the readiness of Polish local governments, Caritasu, parishes, episcopate appeals, the readiness of NGOs to accept a number of refugees, and after careful checking whether they are... their identities, Poland will revise its policy here. Would this not have a very positive impact on the image of Poland, which in this case also has the worst opinion in the world? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u174	Dear Marshal! Minister! Your domain is a tabloid foreign policy, and this publicist approach is your main weakness. Here I will mention a number of unthinkable words that have come out of your mouth. It can be said that a true book, even an encyclopedia, has already been written out of these words. And worst of all, you are constantly opening up new cards for these failures, causing at least an embarrassment to the international public. You do not spare any frivolous comments about Polish citizens, including women from black protest, telling them to have fun. You rightly pointed out by the Minister that he is not from caring for the good image of Poland, because he cannot do it, but he also did not add that he is actively involved in the policy of the PiS government based on unjustified phobias, Euroscepticism and a feeling of lack of understanding of mechanisms. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the rulers of the modern world. So I will ask: Where do you see the future of Poland, if not in the heart of the European Union? And at the same time, Minister, the Modern will change this misguided course and bring us back on track...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u175	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u176	...European integration without complexes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u177	Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! How do you assess the current state of cooperation within the Visegrad Group? Only Slovakia has adopted the euro from four countries. By what actions do the V4 States intend to defend these autonomous, sovereign decisions serving their economies, their national and political interests? Will and possibly how the Group states intend to strengthen the message at the March jubilee summit on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome in order to defend their position and not be blackmailed politically by many EU politicians, including the billionaire and stockbroker George Soros? How do you assess the chances of introducing what Poland is proposing with other countries of the Visegrad Group in order to limit the authority of the institutions and pass on to them more national Parliaments? Is the whole Visegrad Group compatible with and wants to strengthen the role of national states within the European Union? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u179	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You criticized Minister Sikorski for his so-called. Twitter diplomacy, saying that social media is not the right place to present our narrative in foreign policy. Meanwhile, you actually have a very active Facebook profile. Explain: What is the difference between Twitter diplomacy and Facebook diplomacy? I see one fundamental difference between the Twitter account of Radosław Sikorski and your Facebook account. Because Radosław Sikorski's account is watching almost 900 thousand. People from all over the world, and your Facebook account has only a few thousand likes, mostly from the voivodship where you ran. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u181	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: absent.]] There is no Member. Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In January this year. In his speech, President Andrzej Duda outlined the main principles of foreign policy and the directions for its action in 2017. The president's priorities will be to work to increase security in our homeland. We are all aware of the dangers that lie beyond our eastern border. The annexation of Crimea was horribly disgusting and fierce fighting continues in Ukraine and people are still dying there. Russia's policy towards its neighbours is irresponsible and unpredictable. Russia's politicians act in fear and anxiety in neighbouring countries. Therefore, Minister, a question arises concerning our safety, which concerns two ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence, and it reads: Will the American missile shield still be built in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u183	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a European, I am struck most by foreign policy, precisely by the Minister's policy. The Minister begins his conquest of the world by insulting vegetarians and cyclists, himself invites the Venice Commission to Poland, and then his colleagues, Marshal Terlecki, says that they came to visit Warsaw. The Venice Commission says that no country in the world has insulted them as much as Poland. There have already been three debates in the European Parliament about Poland in the context of human rights violations, women's rights and the democratic rule of law. In addition to such topics as conflicts in Kenya, Somalia or Syria, the UN also deals with Polish policy, expressing its concerns about human rights in our country. It's just a shame. Ministers of the PiS Government [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're driving. to the islands instruct the British, and they give permission to racist behavior. Minister Morawiecki says it's a choice between the plague and hell, forgetting that one of the candidates just became president. Chiefmaster speaking, Minister Chiefernaker...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u185	Madam, finish the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u186	Yes. Minister Chefnernaker speaks of 10 orphans as ravens, and Minister Kownacki teaches the French, says they learned from us to eat with a fork. This is a tiny summary of the state...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u187	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u188	... Foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u189	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. There isn't. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I come from the Piotrkowski district of Radomska, where there is a furniture pit. There are about 600 furniture plants on Radomszczańska soil. Fameg, one of the world's largest bending furniture factories, was founded over 130 years ago by the Thonet brothers. And that's the question. What will be the cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the Ministry of Development in supporting exports and promoting Polish products and Polish entrepreneurs abroad? We know that the changes that have been made with regard to ambassadors have already brought tangible benefits in the form of a 4-billion-dollar surplus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u191	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Over 190 million inhabitants of our globe live outside the country of birth. In this group, our compatriots have a leading position in terms of numbers. Abroad Poland currently lives about 20 million Poles and people of Polish origin. Poles living abroad often do not have much contact with our culture and often forget about it. Helping to promote the proper image of the country is a value that is hard to overestimate. Other important challenges include: legal regulations strengthening relations with Poland. I think everyone will agree that it is very important to build as close as possible relations with a young generation living abroad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! My question is: Is it true that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs puts particular emphasis on the new quality in Polish politics? What concrete actions will be taken by the Ministry to support the teaching of Polish language, preservation and strengthening of Polish language...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u193	Madam, please stop asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u194	...identity and the possibility for Poles to participate in national culture? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u195	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you have announced such a policy of getting off your knees and indeed you are leading it. You have a policy of getting up from your knees, only every time you get up from your knees, the Poles get hit on the head. One such group is entrepreneurs. I would like to ask you about your economic diplomacy. In addition to the measures taken by the Ministry of Transport, what measures have you taken to protect our transport companies, which are the most powerful in this field in Europe? They carry out 1/3 of transport in Europe, bring very high revenues to the Polish budget. However, some European countries introduce regulations that, unfortunately, limit the possibility of expansion, make it sadly necessary for our entrepreneurs to flee from individual markets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, these trends are increasing. Under the leadership of France, a meeting was held in December to group these countries together to block the provision of such services by countries, let's call it Central Europe. In this connection, the specific question is: What actions our diplomacy is going to take, what actions it has taken up to now, in order to protect our entrepreneurs who are doing their services, for example. in France, Germany...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u197	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u198	...or other countries in Western Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u199	Mrs Anna Paluch, Club Law and Justice. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the publication that we have all received, it is important to say that cooperation with Polonia is an important element of foreign policy. That's very good. It is very important to state that learning Polish is a priority. This theory is good and should be adapted to it practice, and it is not. During his speech, the Minister spoke about a school saved in Latvia. That's very good, too. But I do not know if the Minister knows that in the case of a school in Salem near Boston, but far enough that it is an important institution of Polishness, for six months the management, parents and even students turn to where they can. I don't think there's an institution. I don't think there's an important minister whose door they didn't knock on. What's the effect? The effect is that the school has now been expelled from its [[♪ The bell ♪]] The places where the lessons were conducted, she works in the parish kitchen. It's hard to say that a big school with a long tradition can work like this. Minister, this is the 2015 report. It was in 2015 that the efforts of the faculty, teachers and parents of the Salem school with a long tradition began, as I said. So we're not just asking for a theory, we're asking for practice, we're asking for real practice...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u201	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u202	...so let the theory go with statements and accomplishments. I look forward to this kind of work for this very school.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u203	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u204	Let me add, Senator Anders was there, and she promised the school would be there. There's no school. It's very sad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u205	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! How many MGIMO and University graduates Lomonosova in Moscow still works in Polish diplomacy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? My second question: How many people are educated at the Diplomat Academy, which has just been opened? Third question: What actions will the Polish government take in this term of office so that Poles in Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine and Germany are treated as national minorities in Poland? I hope that the Civil Platform will join the fight for equality between Poles living in Germany and how Germany lives in Poland. I very much regret that the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Polish Sejm has not asked your chancellor to improve [[♪ The bell ♪]] the situation of Poles in Germany, and is so concerned about the situation of Germans in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u207	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Lenz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In your speech, you spoke of the need for a new look at the Eastern Partnership. You may remember that during the previous term of office in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have often discussed the current effects of implementing various types of projects that are included in the Eastern Partnership project. This is a good and expected declaration, because I believe that, as part of the European structures, the need to balance the Eastern Partnership policy with the neighbourhood policy in the Mediterranean should be raised all the time, and that it is necessary to seek further funding for the Eastern Partnership project, but it is also necessary to assess the situation of the different countries of this partnership, namely Belarus, Moldova, Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Armenia, to adapt this project to the internal situation in these countries, as well as to our current policies. I therefore expect you to know what the implementation of the Eastern Partnership is going to be like, what we are going to do in the Eastern Partnership and how we are going to influence [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the European structures for this project to be further implemented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u209	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My questions will address the resolution of the migration crisis and humanitarian aid. Well, as we read in the paper presented by the Minister to the High House, a concept has been developed and proposed more broadly in the framework of Visegrad cooperation. flexible solidarity, in which instead of forced relocation, we want to help the most deprived there. Due to the fact that in recent days, in recent days - even today in the debate this topic has also changed - we have heard a lot about those children who would be willing to come to Poland, to Sopot, and about the refusal of the Polish government to come to Poland, I would like to hear from the Minister's mouth, whether this is the position of the Polish government, not to help children, not to help those who are most in need from Syria, from Aleppo. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what measures last year the Polish government, or perhaps more broadly: the European Union has allocated to support precisely there, in Syria, for those most in need, including children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u211	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! All this time you tell Poles that Poland has risen from its knees, and meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, you are moving in foreign policy like an elephant in porcelain. [[Voice from the room: In the lineup.]] Foreign policy is completely subordinated to national policy, one party policy. There is a lack of vision and a lack of long-term action. As far as the questions are concerned, you have announced that you will lodge a complaint with the International Court of Justice on the return of the wreckage of the tupole. I hope this isn't an announcement you'd like to buy in time. But I would like to ask if Russia has made a declaration in the MTS which requires it to respect the judgments of this Court. If she hasn't filed a complaint, what's the point of bringing a complaint to the Court? In your election campaign, you have often said that once you have taken office, you will immediately return the wreckage to Russia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You accused the previous government of inactivity and goodwill. Minister! Please say: How many official notes did he send? Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Russian administration to handle the matter, to whom exactly and when were they sent? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u213	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform. [[I'm surprised, but I'm here.]] It's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, how to reconcile the motto of increasing the role and strength of national states in the European Union with the demand to compensate for direct payments to Polish farmers in relation to payments to German, French, Danish farmers, etc.? What particular countries are coming with us and will support us for this right purpose? What exactly are the arrangements for today? Minister! For the first time in my work for the sake of our beautiful Poland I meet with such an attitude of total disrespect for the achievements of my predecessors and expressing it outside our country. It has to give birth and give birth to mistrust, shows selfishness. If you don't change that attitude, we'll be alone with our hands in the potty. Nobody can stand selfish people, and you always have to live in peace with your neighbors, not just see your own nose. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This has nothing to do with valor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u216	Minister! Are there any concrete measures taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure that at least the descendants of the Polish minority in Germany are considered a minority? During the last meeting, Prime Minister Szydło and Chancellor Merkel promised to speak freely with the Lands so that it would be possible to learn Polish. It's a pretty smart runway. Well, that's what they've been talking about for 25 years now, and it doesn't make any sense. Secondly, if Poles obtained minority status, then learning Polish because of this status belongs to them. So let us not be deceived. Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs taking action on establishing the status of a Polish minority in Germany? What? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's not be afraid of our own courage. There are always more important things, but I think this is a moment that may not happen again when it comes to this particular case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u217	Thank you, Member. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Minister of Foreign Affairs boasted about his last year's diagnosis of Poland's international situation and considered it key three crises: the security crisis, the crisis of the neighbourhood and the crisis of the European project. However, it turned out that these were not the Minister's analytical abilities, but the announcement of the consequences of his foreign policy. I ask that the Minister try to assess, preferably on a scale of one to six, how much did the PiS government increase these crises? Security crisis by the devastation of the Polish army, from which 30 generals left. Crisis of economic security by destabilising Polish public finances. The crisis of the neighbourhood by such words of Jarosław Kaczyński about our western neighborhood, I quote: the democracy there has been properly eradicated. It was about Germany. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, the crisis of the European project by lifting the flag of the European Union from the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło expressed from this speaker about a huge degrengolad European club. Minister, if you are unable to estimate this today, I ask you to answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Melak, Law and Justice. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! I quote the Minister: instead of standing on the sidelines and rooting for the main players, we entered the international arena ourselves. That's what the Minister thinks. I would like to make you aware that you have entered the backup field, where no one is there, because everyone is already trained, and the main players are on the main field, unless you mean the circus arena, because then perhaps you are right, because our partners are looking at us as something that is unheard of, a state that violates human rights and fundamental democratic values, i.e. They look at us with embarrassment and pity. You also said that the priority is the security and repair of the European Union. You have already fixed the Constitutional Tribunal and many other institutions. God forbid you're gonna fix it like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When we are being monitored by other European institutions, it is simply funny to say that we want to fix the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u221	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Mosiński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You are treating, dear Platform, to participate in this debate your numerous complexes as regards Jarosław Kaczyński, who has a stronger impact on the policy of the European Union from Warsaw than your Donald Tusk from Brussels, the complexes concerning the effective political present government. I have the impression that in the perception of diplomacy, you have stopped at the level of homo sapiens fossilis, a man from Cro-Magnon - like a caveman, but no longer living in a cave. Sad is a statement. Do you believe that everything should be said in foreign policy? In diplomacy, relations between politicians that arise in the privacy of offices play an important role. I have a question about that. What was the intensity of the Minister's bilateral contacts? And last but not least, thank you for publishing. Yes, it was a good year of Polish foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If the cure for fatal foreign policy is to insult the opposition Members expressing their concern, who speak constructively, I congratulate you. It wasn't the Minister, so this digression wasn't for you. My question, first of all, Minister: Has employment changed in Polish diplomatic institutions in the last year? Please answer this question in writing. What I mean is, what number of people, in whose facilities, in which mode they were eventually mentioned, and what this resulted in. Second question. A few days ago, President Trump informed us that he would abolish visas for Poles within two weeks. Has the Ministry taken swift action to ensure that this promise is fulfilled? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a short third question. Ladies and gentlemen, why aren't the humanitarian corridors prepared by Polish Caritas and Caritas in other countries supported by Pope Francis prepared and considered dangerous for the status of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u225	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three questions. First question: When can you expect a website with a free Polish language course for people who do not speak this language? Second line. What's the matter with the Polish media? What is the place in the whole ministry, the politics of the ministries, the Polish media? And the third point, a question that has not been raised for a long time and is unfinished, namely the result of the seizure of Zaolzia before the war was the situation in which the Germans occupied Zaolza as Polish territory in 1939, while after the war according to Czech law the property which was taken from Germany was treated as German property rather than Polish property. This has some legal implications, while there are heirs and people who are interested in it. This applies, of course, to Poles living in Zaolzie. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u227	Thank you, sir. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk. There isn't. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members! The Minister spoke a lot about diplomacy and, therefore, I wanted to ask you how you evaluate the activity of Polish ambassador Andrzej Przyłębski in Berlin and TVP correspondent in Berlin. Both of these people are on an unpretentious list of troublesome Berliners, I'm sure you've heard of it. I wanted to ask you to assess this activity. And secondly, I wanted to ask if the Minister is planning to do something abroad in connection with not very flattering opinions that appear in the foreign press about Poland, and not just Poland. For example, the Slovak journal - I quote - says that Kaczyński acts as a communist companion, leads the state without any function. And the Czech journal - another country, which was supposed to be our partner - says that PiS is conducting activities through which there are few allies in Europe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u230	Dear Marshal! Minister! Progressive globalisation and increasing interdependencies between nations make economic issues an increasingly important factor that affects contemporary international relations. That is why economic diplomacy is very important, which I would like to ask you about, because you have repeatedly stressed the need to support Polish entrepreneurs in foreign expansion, which, moreover, is quite clear about the plan for responsible development of Prime Minister Morawiecki. You have repeatedly declared this support, but after three quarters of 2016, let's see what the international investment position looks like. The difference between Polish investments abroad and foreign investments in Poland was negative and increased by PLN 16 billion. This means that the dependence of the economy on foreign capital has not only decreased, but has even increased, which was completely incompatible with what you said and said before. How, then, [[♪ The bell ♪]] you intend, Minister, to make economic diplomacy more effective and what are you going to do to make foreign investments of Polish companies better supported? What are you doing so that Polish companies can invest without complexes abroad, so that this dependence of Poland on foreign capital will decrease rather than increase, as we have seen in the last three quarters of 2016? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir. Come, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, if you don't mind, I'm here about energy security. And in your speech, and in the statements of Members, and in the statements of the President, there was a strong improvement in Poland's energy security during the last year. Therefore, I will ask what about the expansion of the gasport, because it is an element of building the energy security of the country, and what about the construction of the interconnection between Poland and the Czech Republic, which according to the original assumptions, plans prepared by the previous government and the decisions taken at that time were to be completed in 2018. According to the information available today, this connection could be built at the earliest in 2020, and this is a very important issue, as we speak, we know the importance for the energy security of Poland in 2019 with the opening window of negotiations on access to gas in Jamal. These are very important issues. We're talking about building this security. What are you, Minister, saying? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the first three quarters of last year Poland purchased more than 1.5 billion m3 gas from the eastern side than in the same period of the previous year, at the same time as the decline in domestic extraction? How do we build this security, independent of the east? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u233	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I lacked the Minister's speech to address the emigration of our citizens, especially as regards the British Isles, because until recently very often and the Minister stressed, and PiS, that you will do everything you can to get the citizens of our country back to Poland. I wanted to ask you about statistics, about how this, Minister, looks about 2015, about the year 2016. Is it true that Polish citizens from the British Isles are returning to our country in a wide wave? What concrete actions, apart from the slide policy, especially in the performance of Prime Minister Moravian... [[Moravian.]] ... Do you realize Moravianism so that Poles would be happy to return to our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u235	Thank you very much. And Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u236	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You, and rightly so, pointing out in your speech that you expect the European Union to quote that the legal framework and the projects implemented must strengthen security of supply - energy, of course - all Member States and not the dominant supplier as in the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. You also rightly point out, quote two, that you oppose protectionist practices, the creation of new barriers, especially with regard to the freedom of movement of persons. Their manifestation is, among other things, one of them. amendments to the rules on posted workers. I'd like to ask... Because it is by virtue of the Treaties, these are the Treaties, and the Treaties, this Community policy, which the European Commission is defending. I wanted to ask you how this is related to the declaration made by your boss, saying that the competences of the European Commission for countries need to be reduced. I mean, the countries are supposed to defend themselves? That's when it's protectionism. I wanted to ask you where the consistency is. And I wanted to ask you why there was no hard declaration that you would defend us against Nord Stream 2. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have often emphasized that you will defend yourself. It wasn't there. Can you declare that I will defend, I will do everything I can to prevent him from rising and that he will not rise? Nord Stream 2? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u237	Thank you very much. And Mr Sylwester Khrushch is the last to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a personal question. When are you going to make real personnel changes in your ministry? When you remove all the resorting children, the people who are still in Moscow schools, [[Applause]] According to real papers, they're just after SB schools, so that our diplomacy can finally live to get a new spirit into it? You have very good deputies, Konrad Szymanski, Mr. Dziedziczak. So to this way of thinking, people who understand what happened in Europe, what's happening... [[But Mr.Dziedziczak speaks no language but Polish.]] ...why was Brexit, why you won Trump, why Europe is changing, we need people not from giving you Professor Geremek, but from giving you a good change, who think with spirit and understand in Polish. Thank you. [[Sylvek, fear God.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u239	Thank you very much. I'm closing... The Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u240	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! If there was a request for a detailed answer to the written question, we will of course provide it. Many questions were rhetorical questions, and it is difficult to answer them. But I will try to answer some of them, and then I will address a few things more widely. Lobbing is governed by European law. In the countries of the European Union, it is allowed. The ambassadors have the right to cooperate, to demand the fulfilment of requests, explanations from various Polish institutions. And we're taking advantage of that situation, too. Polish diplomacy, Polish ambassadors also, where legal, permitted, enjoy such privileges and operate in European countries, and not only in Europe, demanding our common policy. A few questions were beyond the realm of fact, beyond the sphere of knowledge, so I find it difficult to relate to them. Then there were a few issues concerning Syria, migration, so I will answer them specifically. This year we predicted an increase in aid to Syrian refugees mainly there in that region. We have access to Lebanon, we have access to Jordan, we have no access to Syria. These areas, which have been overrun by the Bashar al-Assad regime, are not available. You can talk about corridors, but they don't work. So this year we have allocated or are planning to allocate PLN 46 million to this direct aid. On the other hand, speaking of migrations, I would like to remind you that actually the Holy Father Francis referred several times to the issue of migration, to the issue of refugees, but in his speech at Wawel, and I had the honour to participate there, referring to Poles, referring to Poland, he said that there were various forms of help. And in our case, he did not call for Poland to accept refugees or migrants. In Krakow he said that there are various forms of help and understood absolutely that Poland has the opportunity to... [[Poland meant it.]] ...helping in a different way. And in my dealings with Vatican diplomacy, it was also emphasized, raised, that we were helping... [[Don't overthink Francis' words.]] ...and we don't have to accept refugees that aren't in Poland right now. On the other hand, I stress once again, Poland participates in many aid schemes. As a member of the European Union, we are making a huge contribution to the fund for Turkey. This fund amounts to around EUR 3 billion and is to be used to help Syrian refugees who have reached Turkey and are there. We participate in various other funds, such as Madad, we have a Polish-German fund and programme for the reconstruction of schools in Lebanon together with Germany, and we provide financial assistance to Jordan. I'm sorry to jump, but those questions were also jumping. Thus, the tender for the construction of the embassy in Berlin was cancelled because it was conducted in such a way that it had to be submitted to the prosecutor's office, and this problem has now been reported to the prosecutor's office. Someone designed an embassy about a 14,000 cubicle. m3 by allocating about 160 million. If you wanted to build such a building, it was unnecessary, as it turned out, Poland would have to spend about 100 million more. This bid had to be cancelled and handed over to the DA because it was a scam deal. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in other resorts in Poland there are no purges, because the purgatory was Stalinist politics. On the other hand, for years, as far as the various resorts are concerned, for the previous power, and for the current power, of course, there are amendments to the laws, there are modernisations of employment. Many Members did not listen to my exposé, and therefore it is difficult to address the triple or quadruple questions of Mr Szczerba, Mr Mieszkowski, Mr Rutkowska, Mr Szłapki, Mr Nemś, Mr Marchewki. Other questions do not concern the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because the issues he raised, for example, Mr Rutkowski, these are issues that the Ministry of the Interior is dealing with... [[Rutnicki.]] [[There is no such envoy.]] Rutnicki, I'm so sorry. ...and Administration. I remind Mr Gawlik that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not build a LNG terminal or gas pipes, so it is difficult for me to answer that question. [[Economic diplomacy, Minister.]] We support, create an atmosphere, create agreements that are then executed. LNG is built and will be expanded, but not by the forces of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of course. On the other hand, I mentioned in my exposé that we would be helping to build a Baltic gas pipe that would connect us to Norwegian gas. Short digression: of course, you can use Twitter as a form of talk with the world and gain popularity in 900 thousand. People who are interested in magle can also use Facebook simply as an instrument to inform about what is happening in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I think that this form is better. We're building a missile shield, of course. We started construction in May. R., which means half the time has passed. I hope that by the end of the year, at the end of 2017/2018 this base will be dedicated. The status of Polonia in the Federal Republic of Germany is our priority. We have been discussing since the beginning of our government's existence on the status of Polish society in the Federal Republic of Germany, and I will remind you that even in my first exposé a year ago I announced that it would be one of the priorities, and that is what we are talking about. Unfortunately, on the German side there is no response, the case is also known; the veil is a large number of Turkish citizens who are used as an excuse to not restore the status that we had years ago before World War II, Poland and Poles. The Diploma Academy, as I mentioned, adopted this year, a few days ago, 32 applicants. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there will be these people if they pass the exams in a few months, already formally employees of the Ministry. There are still about 80 MGIMO graduates in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we have introduced a draft amendment to the Council of Ministers to the Foreign Service Act, which will also regulate this issue. I can only mention the Polish Charter that we have adopted 27 thousand. applications for a new card. What will be the implications and further results of this process, we will only say when we examine what it looks like. Today this process was only started after the modification and adoption of the Polish Charter. V4 and regional integration. V4, i.e. the four Visegrads, has already become a brand in Europe, an institution, an organisation, an informal organisation, contacts with it are desirable, consultation is desirable. This cooperation is sought by the Weimar Triangle, the Benelux Group is pursuing. Also countries outside Europe want to consult from time to time, I am thinking about Japan, Korea, China even, so it is a formula that has worked both in this part of Europe and outside Europe. This is, as I have mentioned many times in my exposé, an element of various structures, various figures that we develop in our part of Europe, up to the largest, or Tri-Moor, or ABC. Once again, I stress that regional integration does not serve to be against someone, it serves to help itself that our region is not a periphery of Western Europe, so that we do not build the European Union... Today, the centre is located in Western Europe, e.g. in a three-way between capitals such as Paris, Berlin, Brussels, and we are either a periphery or a transit area between the East and the West. We would also like our region of Europe to catch up with the development of Western Europe with time - the sooner, the better. For this, additional regional links are needed, aimed at the development of road, rail, environmental infrastructure, etc., because the Carpathians, which are in the centre of this region, can share, but can also combine, so that all are subordinated to integration programmes of our region - first of all, once again, I stress, for us, to integrate this region to make it feel better and function in Europe and not against someone. Three issues relating primarily to Eastern policy. Well, Poland - Ukraine... It is regrettable that we have not heard about the extensive political, military relations, the visas that we have granted in over a million dollars. I was talking about historical dialogue, I was talking about it - I can say again now - that we want to have a dialogue with Ukraine, not like my predecessor yelled at Majdan a few years ago: sign an agreement with Yanukovych or you will be dead. [[It wasn't in Majdan.]] During Majdan, February 20, 21st. [[But not on Majdan.]] Mr Nowak, we have sent to Ukraine all the best: Balcerowicz, Nowak. [[Not just, more.]] We're waiting for the economic miracle they're going to build. [[Applause]] We are waiting for this economic miracle. Balcerowicz and Nowak. [[Don't mock Ukraine, the Ukrainians hired them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u241	Please remain calm in the courtroom. [[You don't have any specialists.]] Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u242	Relations with Russia. Group on After all, it was created after 2000, it died in the days of the Civic Platform, it died in that time, we are trying to recreate it. We've already selected Professor Filipowicz, who's been given a ticket to reconstruct it. We have a number of candidates we want to appoint, and we assume that within the next few days such an arrangement will be recreated on the Polish side, because the response on the Russian side is difficult to expect at the moment. But we're driving... Although, for obvious reasons, there are no meetings with Russia at the highest level, because the partner does not respond, the so-called. working level - this is the level of deputy ministers, experts - cooperation is taking place between foreign ministers and development ministers. We have a cross-border cooperation programme. The suspension of small border traffic has indeed occurred, but this does not mean closing the borders. The border is functioning, multiple or multi-annual visas are honoured and we did not feel, according to statistics, a reduction in the presence of inhabitants of Kaliningrad or the Kaliningrad enclave in these neighbouring voivodships. The sanctions continue to include Russia, these sanctions include Russia for its aggressive attitude towards Ukraine and are imposed by a large part of the world, while this does not interfere with us together with the Ministry of Agriculture and other ministries to seek - and successfully so - new markets for goods that have not been able to find outlets for some time due to sanctions in Russia. We're going against Nord Stream 2, just like you didn't go against Nord Stream 1. So far, Nord Stream 2 hasn't been formed. The key to this is, of course, in Brussels and depends on officials, among others. Brussels. Speaking of Ukraine - I will also talk about Belarus in a moment, there was also a question about the Eastern Partnership - I will remind you that it is, however, a programme with which not only Poland is identified, but it is a formal programme of the European Union, so that the Eastern Partnership programme must work, there must be will, will, determination and finances on the part of the European Union, it is not enough just the desire to continue it by the Polish side. As far as Belarus is concerned, again, please do not link - as I said, I explained this to you yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs - the Belsat TV issue with support for civil society. Nothing has changed in this respect. All civil society support programmes are functioning and maintained by both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other institutions cooperating with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not the owner of Belsat and it is not possible to influence how it works. We're one of the donors, and right now we have a lot of problems, a lot of tasks, and we need to redirect some of the money... [[This is a disgrace. This is a disgrace.]] [[It's a shame!]] ...which doesn't mean we're shutting down the Belsat grants completely because they are. We are able to keep the Belsat editorial office at work, but we are not able to finance some programs, and this is a problem that needs to be solved together. [[You won't even tell the truth in the Seym.]] I'll be down in a minute and you'll answer. What's with the yelling? [[I'm saying you're not telling the truth.]] I say again, we don't close, we don't own Belsat, we don't decide what happens next. [[Are you talking about Lukashenka? You're ashamed to admit it.]] On the other hand, we have close relations with the Polish Union in Belarus, with civil society. You're the ones who had a problem with civil society, and I'll remind you of the Bialyatski situation. We have now started a very broad dialogue with the Belarusian society on history, on education, on religion, on economic issues. [[Speech outside the microphone]] [[You're stupid.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I would like to say that I very much thank the Members of the Law and Justice for having approached my exposé in a factual way. I am pleased that many of you have developed the thesis I presented in the exposé, some, of course, in a short way. I also take the presumptuous criticism that it was possible to do this or more, and we will, of course, be in cooperation with both the club and the Committee on Foreign Affairs to develop this programme that I have presented. I am sorry, however, that most of the opposition did not participate in the substantive debate. [[No, it's a PiS, Minister.]] [[You weren't in the middle of this debate.]] I've heard dozens of adjectives, invectives instead of facts, personal tours instead of facts. I heard about the May bombing, I heard about him being drunk from wall to wall, about his hands in a potty, about the circus, and so on. These are not substantive issues for discussion, this is not a way of discussion. Of course, there's also a lack of knowledge about CETA. The countries from PSL and the countries that negotiated should be asked. [[But that wasn't a question for us. No, it wasn't us.]] In fact, a few years ago, you reported all this, years ago, you could explain, negotiate and perhaps accept a better agreement. But we are the ones who have maintained the possibility that, now that CETA is in force, it will enter into force after parliamentary ratifications. So you will be able - because we have ensured - to express your opinion in the next two years and possibly accept it or reject it. I understand that the total opposition must deny the facts, and we know that if you don't accept the facts, that's worse for the facts. That's why we printed this brochure, which is just an illustration, is an example of the efforts of diplomacy... This isn't a year's chronicle, it's not gonna have to be a fat, big book. The painting is, as I said, worth a thousand words, it cannot reflect... [[To Belsat.]] ...over 70 trips and several dozen accepted visits to the country. It is a pity that this total opposition often compromises itself, because the head of total opposition is, after all, the head of the prestigious Committee on Foreign Affairs. It would seem that, as always, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee would work with the head of diplomacy, and today I did not hear a substantive reference to my exposé... [[You've got to be kidding me.]] ...in turn, as I said, I heard many invectives, epithets, shame, shame, etc., which is difficult to relate to. No debate. There's frustration, there's screaming, there's frustration about lost elections, there's appeals... [[What are you talking about, man?]] The appeal from this man, among other things, is that which calls for a man. [[He doesn't show his finger. The minister's pointing at you?]] Appeals... I pointed it out with my hand.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u243	I'm asking you to dull your emotions, okay? Because it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u244	Reset calls.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u245	All of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u246	So...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u247	Everyone. [[Minister, listen to what he's saying.]] I ask both sides of the room to remain calm. The Minister is now speaking. Very...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u248	Is he under the influence again?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u249	Sir... Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u250	Everyone suspects.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u251	Minister, I'm calming down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u252	I'm so happy for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u253	I'm asking you to take it easy, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u254	I'm so happy for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u255	...answered questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u256	I've been here for hours. 9... [[You're a blank.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u257	I've been here all day, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u258	And this gentleman...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u259	But, ladies and gentlemen... [[You're blowing an emptiness.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u260	So there are calls for reset. What's that? Let's just keep it that way. But what did you decide when it was, what was it like? For example, on European issues, the issue of the euro. You blew over EUR 6 billion to your wife. And what's the effect of that? Where were you allowed to make any decisions or discussions? Ukraine. In your day, formats were created, Normandom format, Minsk format. Where have you been? After all, you were criticized by the previous minister, Minister Schetyn, who demanded a few years ago that we should enter such a format. Migration. In a great discussion in 2015, you were deceived because everyone who came to Europe in a great wave of several hundred thousand people and then passed the Balkan route to central Europe, the European Union qualified as refugees and tried to solve the issue of hundreds of thousands of people, of whom 80% They were migrants. Even from countries like Kosovo, Macedonia, Albania. Albania belongs to NATO. They could not be regarded as refugees. So all of these people -- you've been deceived -- they've been found refugees and they've been forced to vote and accept against the right article. [[Have we accepted anyone?]] You don't want to act, you don't want to talk about the future, you don't want to talk about new solutions. It's just about the reset, so it's going to be like it was, so I'm telling you, it's not going to be like it was. [[And that's what we're afraid of. That's what we're afraid of.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u261	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the Civic Platform requested that information be rejected. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Penal Code and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Social Policy and Family Committee submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask your first question: Anna Milczanowska, Joanna Borowiak, Lydia Burzyńska and Michał Dworczyk from Law and Justice on the deployment of American forces and other allies in Poland - to the Minister of National Defence. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Tomasz Szatkowski. The first question is asked by Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u262	One.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u263	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u264	High Izbo! Minister! The increase in the defence capacity of the Republic of Poland is one of the priorities of the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and headed by your Ministry. To date, it has been increased thanks, among others, to last year's decisions made at the NATO summit in Warsaw. As part of the real improvement of the level of security of Poland, support was received from allies from NATO. Currently, in Poland a heavy US armored brigade is already stationed, the battalion NATO fighting group and US tactical aviation are about to appear. The first American soldiers are stationed in the west of the country, including in Żagań and Bolesławice. This significantly increases the Alliance's fighting power in this part of Europe. However, it is worth noting that further work on increasing the country's defence capacity requires action on the location of more military units in the eastern part of Poland. This area, which is extremely important from the defence point of view of the country and the entire Alliance, is characterised by a deficit of defence potential resulting from the post-1989 method of deployment of military units, further enhanced by the actions of the Civic Platform-PSL government. The dislocation of the leopard battalion to the east of the country already decided by the Minister will undoubtedly affect the achievement of this objective. In view of the above, I would like to address the Minister of National Defence with the following questions: Can we say today, in what areas of the country will the next army of the Alliance and the United States be stationed? Will they be in constant readiness to respond to aggression? What actions is the Ministry planning to take to increase the defence potential of the eastern part of Poland? Is the decision to dislocate a leopard battalion to the east of the country just the beginning of the restoration of the army to the east [[♪ The bell ♪]] The country? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u265	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Tomasz Szatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The transfer of an armored battle squad of United States land forces went according to plan. In January, the U.S. forces were working towards integration and preparedness at Żagań and Drawsk Pomerania. Then, this month, part of the maneuvering battalions according to previous plans will move to other countries of the eastern flank for temporary exercises with allies in those countries. As far as the dislocation of U.S. forces within the armored battle team is concerned, most of its elements are located in the area of the complex in Żagań, but there is also the distribution of additional elements within the Powid complex. These will be elements both as part of an armored battle team as well as additional support elements outside of the armored battle team. At this point, we cannot yet give you complete details because there are arrangements with an American ally. Another important element of the American and Allied forces in Poland will be the fighting group of forces, which will operate in the presence of NATO. This combat group, which will consist of the core, or battalion of maneuverable American forces, beyond this armored fighting group, as well as Romanian and Croatian forces - and this is a novelty - will be deployed from April as part of the Bemowo Piskie complex in north-eastern Poland. Of course, we encourage our American allies to carry out a large part of their tasks on the field in eastern Poland, including the Bemów Piski field. As far as the readiness of the American forces and allies is concerned, the battle group - the battalion, for now on Stryker transporters, British, Romanian and Croatian elements - will be ready so-called. ready to fight tonight; it is ready to count in hours. If in turn we are talking about an armored battle group, it is ready ready to fight, also very high, which involves the possibility of moving elements across the entire eastern flank. In addition, we should mention here the construction of a very important element of NATO defence forces on the eastern flank, the international North-East division in Elbląg. She will be ready in a short time in an efficient way to lead NATO combat groups and other allies throughout the eastern flank. The U.S. troops' rotation is scheduled at the turn of September and October, when the additional element arrives, means the next rotation of an armored battle team. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Thank you very much for your precise, detailed answer. But I'd like to ask you about the east wall. Raising the military potential of the eastern part of the country could be an attempt to build on existing military infrastructure. The actions taken by the government of PO-PSL caused a significant part of military installations and military equipment located in the eastern part of Poland to lose its usefulness for military purposes. However, due consideration should be given to the possibility of using the infrastructure in these areas for the needs of newly located units. Does the Ministry of Defence have a recognized infrastructure in the east of Poland so that it can create military units there as soon as possible? If so, when will that be possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u269	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u270	Maybe I will start with the element that I left on the first question, i.e. actions related to strengthening the defence of the eastern part of Poland. Of course, dislocation of modern tanks and other equipment to the east is only an element. Other elements include raising the level of combat readiness and additional equipment for other brigades in northern and eastern Poland, as well as building territorial protection just from the eastern and northern walls. The three brigades will be ready to start this year. On the other hand, in terms of infrastructure elements, there has indeed been a significant reduction in the capacity of the units and infrastructure in the eastern flank in 2009 and 2011. The 1st division of the mechanized was removed, the entire complex of Ciechanian facilities was destroyed, a number of smaller training elements. Of course, we have this inventory, we are trying to recreate the readiness of these facilities, which still remain within the resources of the Ministry of National Defence, we are even trying to increase the capacity of the fields, and we are acquiring new facilities as part of the construction of territorial defence elements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u271	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, Sławomir Nitras, Joanna Fabisiak from the Civic Platform... [[Now you can get out.]] ...on refusing to accept orphaned children from Syrian Aleppo into Poland. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, under whose authority the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration will be responsible. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Last week we were moved by the information that the government, and more specifically the Ministry of the Interior, in a letter to the Sopot authorities refused to accept orphans from Syria's war, and refused any assistance in bringing their children back to Sopot. Therefore, I wanted to ask: First, has the Ministry of the Interior appointed a person to contact the Sopot authorities so far to help with this matter? Is it true that the next reply from the Chancellery of the Prime Minister for President Sopot Jacek Karnowski suggested only that the Sopot authorities cooperate with non-governmental organisations on this matter, and despite public declarations that the government is ready to help on this matter, nothing really has been done about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u273	It's time for you to share. Sławomir Nitras, further part of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u274	Thank you. Minister! I am pleased that you personally have decided to answer this question, and I appreciate the fact, but I do not know whether you know that the next cities express their will - in a formal way - to accept orphans, refugees from Syria. Today Wrocław adopted a resolution on this matter, we know that there is a declaration by President Kołobrzeg, I know about the declaration by President Gdansk, discussions on this matter are being held by councillors in my city, Szczecin. I would like to ask: are you mentally prepared, because I know that organizationally yes, but are you mentally prepared to have with the local governments who want in the case of this dramatic situation which... In Polish history we had similar ones. Can you mentally sit down with these people and prepare a Polish cooperation programme, without money from you, which will ensure that local governments can provide humanitarian aid to the victims of these dramatic [[♪ The bell ♪]] events in Syria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of the Interior and Administration, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, when I read those questions that were asked, I had the impression that either the authors of these questions had not read the writings of President Sopot... [[I'm sure.]] ...and the answer given by the Director of the Department of Analysis and Migration Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, or they already have their thesis and answer they are not interested in. There were additional questions just now. Of these four, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, three refer to the same case, here are other words used, but everything revolves around one issue, which in writing does not appear at all in the speech of President Sopot. There's no comment in President Sopot's letter on 10 orphans. No. President Sopot's letter asks for helping orphaned children and families. And, indeed, from the point of view of Muslim civilization, that's how it is. Besides, Mrs Janina Ochojska, who is hard to suspect of any relationship with my political formation, said so directly. There are no orphans in Muslim culture. In Muslim culture, children who lose their parents are under the care of relatives. [[Applause]] Muslim families are very numerous. So the speech of President Sopot should be read as an application for resettlement or as an entry into this relocation mechanism, which the government of the PO-PSL coalition, tearing down the solidarity of the Visegrad Group, accepted, i.e. the mechanism for accepting thousands of migrants from North Africa and the Middle East. In this context, the director of the Department of Analysis and Migration Policy was responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, it looks like you're just fighting your war, war with the government. And there's nothing weird about it because you called yourselves a total opposition, so... [[Not a word about it.]] ...through the streets and across the foreign world, this war is going on. But just taking advantage of... [[About the kids.]] ... children [[Applause]] To your political war is despicable. [[Get to the point.]] That's despicable. Of course, you won't believe what I'm saying, or you won't listen to what I'm saying, so I'll quote you... [[We're listening.]] ...spoken by Fr. Prof. Waldemar Cislo, representing the Church's Help in Need, an organization that helps Christians effectively in the Middle East every day, because they are persecuted, they are murdered. Well, the professor publicly said: "I know the victims of this war personally. I understand that using them for political purposes can be a good card, because suffering causes feelings - but it's immoral, it really doesn't fit. The children we pulled out of the rubble in Aleppo were so traumatized that they couldn't even cry, and today in Poland someone is trying to play it?! And you're trying to play it. And you're trying to play it. [[That's the answer to the question? That's the answer to the question?]] That's the answer to your question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The question is... it's outrageous!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u277	Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm shocked to hear your answer. I'll tell you a story like that. It's 1988, winter, a terrible tragedy in Armenia, 25,000. People die, 0.5 millions are without a roof, including many children, many children lose their parents. Poles react sensitively, normally. They don't ask if they're Muslims or if they're Christians. [[Yes, sir.]] They were like that and they were like that. We know there are sick kids out there. I am one of the people, I am a person who, together with friends next year, invites 150 children to the holiday and organizes this. We're having trouble eating for these kids, with the money... [[Tell me about the Communists.]] ...with their location. We don't have one problem with the authorities. [[Communist.]] The communist authorities are helping these children to come, to give money. You shouldn't have. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a lot of things to get money. Marshal, let me finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u279	But very briefly...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u280	Minister, then poor Poland to Poland, hungry Poland invited thousands of sick children on holiday. Enough for everything, but there was kindness. What you just said, using only one argument... [[That's disgusting.]] ...paper, not that kind of culture, is just disgusting. It's just very sad. Sir, I'm asking you to do one thing... [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Asia!]] I'm only asking you to look at your children as children, not like a clerk to somebody who doesn't know what kind of things. These are the children who need treatment, Minister, they will return to their Muslim families. Let's give them what they need. It doesn't matter what the president wrote, it doesn't matter what decision you make. Take what I've taken. When I was much younger than you, I didn't know how I was gonna do it, we did it with friends, 30 people invited 150 children. We gave everyone food, we gave everyone two months' sleep. [[Well, that's good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u281	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u282	That's all I'm asking. It's about human attitudes. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u283	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This support of Communists by Members of the Civic Platform does not surprise me. [[Voice from the hall: Jesus Mary...]] [[Jesus! I'm leaving.]] [[Voice from the hall: Come out, come out and don't come back.]] On the other hand, if you want to be involved in helping the victims in the Middle East, go ahead. The Government of Law and Justice provides such assistance. Last year 46 million zlotys were transferred to it. Specifically: meeting the urgent needs of Syrian refugees and poor Jordanians in the field of refuge, the project is carried out in Jordan Caritas Poland. The amount of the grant is close to PLN 2.5 million. [[But you didn't answer the questions, Minister.]] Support for basic medical care and improvement of hygiene conditions in the province of Dijala for internal refugees and local population, the project is implemented in the Iraqi Kurdistan Polska Medyczna Mission. The amount of the grant is close to PLN 1.5 million. Support for the Polish Centre for International Aid supporting 10 thousand. Syrian refugees living in Lebanon. This aid is financed by the Polish government in coordination with the structures of the United Nations. It's about living and medical care in Lebanon. It is also about the use of money within the framework of this 46 million PLN... [[Minister, that's not what I asked. We asked if the Ministry was ready to help local governments.]] ...to build a school for Syrian children so that they can continue their studies after graduating from primary school. And the last initiative, please join it, please. [[We've asked other questions, Minister.]] A fundraiser will soon be announced for the construction of the Aleppo hospital, about 300,000. Euros. The Polish government, I spoke to the Prime Minister, will be involved financially. [[Applause]] You're welcome to join us. You're welcome to this. Then you will effectively help those suffering people, and you will not... [[Will you answer our questions? Will you help the local governments?]] [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] ...to use it in a disgraceful way for his political upheaval... [[Will you help the local government?]] ...sick kids. Thank you. [[This is outrageous!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u285	Let's move on to the third question. Members of Sylwester Chruszcz, Krzysztof Sitarski, Paweł Grabowski and Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz club15, ask a question about the number of complaints and complaints about administrative decisions that have been made to local review colleges throughout the country, addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. The question is asked by Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As an architect with many years of practice, I would like to ask you about the number of complaints and complaints, i.e. appeals which SKO issues, and now, and in previous years, which have gone to the SKO, i.e. the municipal appeal college, throughout the country. Today we are sure that because of the lack of law, chronicity, length of procedures many construction investments are paralyzed, and these are often very important investments for a given community, for municipalities, as well as the achievements of life for someone who is building a house, just someone who wants to live, wants to realize his investment, maybe the only one in his life, and every month for this community or for this citizen is important, this time is very important. In these procedures, which I often carry out, or my fellow architects, it often happens that one of the offices which issues decisions, permissions, conditions, derogations, mistakes in its procedure and SKO often rejects then... A fellow architect is staring... [[Curious.]] I'm sure you've come across these procedures, too. Often by the chronicity of the SKO rejects the decision, it must then be re-examined. As a Kukiz club15, we want to apply rules that bring the citizen closer to the time of permission, and we want to know how many of these appeals go to the SKO. We ask you to answer in writing because we want to build ourselves a picture of how big a problem this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u287	Thank you very much. Will you answer now, because if you want to speak in writing, then the Minister is not very... Minister, you're welcome. Minister Tomasz Zdzikot will answer this question, but I understand that there is also a request for a written reply. [[It's about numbers, specifically.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question of Members is indeed very specific and, of course, we will answer in writing, it is clear, but I will try to briefly present these statistics, which, of course, we have already prepared. First of all, I would like to point out that they relate to 2015 because, according to the Act on Local Boards of Appeal, the report on the basis of which we can generate such information is submitted by the end of the first quarter, so it has not been received for 2016 yet. On the basis of these data, I would like to inform you that, as the information submitted shows, the impact of 147 334 administrative cases, including among others, was recorded in the local review colleges in 2015. appeals against decisions and complaints against the decisions of the authorities of the local government, as well as requests to reopen the proceedings and to annul the decisions of those authorities. In 2015, local and local review colleges issued a total of 150 777 administrative decisions, acting as bodies of first instance, appeal bodies. Colleagues issued 103 626 decisions, including among others. decisions to maintain the contested decision - 40 694, amending decisions of the body of first instance, ruling on the substance of the case and repealing decisions of the body of first instance and dying proceedings - 12 867, decisions to repeal the decision of the body of first instance, forwarding the case for review - 30 612, decisions to die appeal - 3137. As regards exceptional administrative procedures, colleges acting as bodies of first instance issued a total of 23 109 decisions, including inter alia. decisions annulling the decision of the body of first instance and declaring the decision of the body of first instance in breach of the law - 8291, decisions refusing to annul the decision - 1601, decisions repealing and determining the substance of the case and declaring the decision of the body of first instance in breach of the law, decisions taken after the reopening of the proceedings - 124, decisions refusing to reopen the procedure - 219, decisions refusing to revoke the decision after the reopening of the procedure - 159. In the context of its review of the case law of the authorities of the local government in 2015, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the SKO positively verified 47 181 decisions, i.e. 47.6% the decision, while adversely assessed 51,894 of them, i.e. 52.4% It's a decision. A very specific question - and the answer, of course in writing, will also be sent to the honourable questioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u289	You're welcome. The additional question will be asked again by Mr Sylwester Khrushch. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, the additional question will be asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u290	Thank you very much. Minister! Thank you for your answer. It's about getting more information. We are now on the eve of a major reform of the CCPD. We would like to know what this process has been like over the last period, if possible, 10 years, in addition to breaking up into different voivodships, so that we know where the problem with this administrative procedure is and where the problem is smaller. Therefore, first of all, we would like to be informed about the number of these complaints so that we can assess whether this is an upward trend or a downward trend. In addition, we also pay attention to necessity or possibly taking... I would like you to take this into account. The point is that complaints that affect the SKO should not be returned in more cases to the authority again for re-examination, so as simply not to stop administrative proceedings, because, unfortunately, it is often the case that when an appeal is lodged, the administrative process is blocked and thus... [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is about blocking the decision, dismissing it in time, which is also detrimental to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u291	Thank you very much. The question is answered again by Minister Tomasz Zdzikot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u292	All I'm going to add is that we're asking for an answer in writing, because I don't think the Minister will be able to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u293	Mr President, I understand that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u294	Yeah, it's about the written answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u295	Yes. What we can achieve right now is an agreement on the provision of written information. My question is whether or not it's enough if we're going to make a list like this from the last five years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u296	I think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u297	Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u298	Yeah, five years is gonna be okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u299	Okay, great, that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u300	Because I understand that here the Minister will not be able to provide us with this information comprehensively.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u301	In the previous four years, not at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u302	Thank you very much. So we're talking about five years back, comprehensively.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u303	We'll give you the information in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u304	In writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u305	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas and Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, on the effect of sealing the tax system in 2016 and on the reasons for resigning from the government's representative. combating financial irregularities to the detriment of the Republic of Poland or the EU Mr Wiesław Jasiński in the middle of the sealing process. The question is addressed to the Ministry of Finance. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, asks the first questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! December's income data were shockingly weak. In December, Minister Morawiecki assured us that the government would generate a very large surplus in relation to the 2016 VAT plan. After the publication of the preliminary data, it turned out that not only was the surplus not developed, but also that the VAT plan was not implemented and, even worse, the real collection of VAT fell. Threats and repressions directed at Polish entrepreneurs therefore did not produce any positive results. Saying that the reason for this is the return of VAT on investment write-offs, in the face of the release of the three principals of key departments and the vice-minister responsible for the sealing process, is a little mocking the public. We ask: What are the real effects of sealing the tax system in 2016? Did the government manipulate numbers in the course of the year, thus overestimating VAT receipts? We would like to know what the individual months from January to December 2016 looked like in terms of VAT reimbursement obligations for businesses. I understand that today maybe the Minister will not answer this question, but in this situation we would like to receive an answer in writing. Data from factoring companies clearly indicate that the average turnover of VAT refunds in Polish companies has increased. We would like to ask: How do you want to implement a very high VAT income plan established this year, since you have come up with false, overstated plans, assumptions related to the implementation of VAT receipts for 2016? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When can we expect a correction of the budget for this year?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u307	Thank you very much. Minister Marian Banaś will answer the question of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can see that unfortunately you have no real data here, so I'm going to present the data as they actually look. According to 2016 estimates, the revenue of the state budget was, please, higher by almost 8,8%. as compared to revenue generated in 2015 On the basis of preliminary information, the revenue of the state budget in 2016 amounted to almost PLN 315 billion and was higher than forecasted in the Budget Act, by about PLN 1 billion. The revenue forecast set out in the 2016 Budget Act was implemented despite the fact that the macroeconomic conditions of the previous year were less favourable than those adopted in the Budget Act. Despite the more difficult macroeconomic conditions for the implementation of the state budget, the income from personal income tax and excise duty were met by a total of about PLN 3 billion. The corporate income tax revenue was close to PLN 26 billion in 2016. At the same time, in 2016, VAT, CIT and PIT revenues amounted to almost PLN 239 billion, a direct increase for 2015 of around 5%. , with the highest increase in income from individuals - more than 7% , in corporate income tax and in value added tax of around 3%. There is no doubt that coordinated control activities carried out by the services under the finance department, such as Customs, Tax Administration and Tax Control, have contributed to the increase in excise and VAT revenue. In this respect, it should be pointed out that procedures that have not yet been applied have been used, inter alia. managing the convoy of goods, deleting the taxable person from the VAT and VAT registers of the European Union and analysing the risks when typing entities for checks. In the fuel area, almost 2 million litres of diesel, fuel, petrol and lubrication oils were stopped in 2016. It should be noted that, in three quarters of 2016, the estimated consumption of liquid fuels on the legal market increased by more than 10% compared to the three quarters of 2015. At the same time, only consumption of diesel has increased by 1800 000 in the last 5 months. m3 and diesel exports fell by almost 50%, which shows increased demand on the domestic market. In 2016, for 2015 almost 18% were recorded. - an increase in the number of cigarettes seized, almost 740 million units were detained and 76 illegal factories and locals were removed, with information and reports still being received that such activities are being undertaken and illegal activities are effectively detected. This translated into an increase in the revenue of the State budget for excise duties on tobacco products by more than 4% for the previous year. For the first time in years, cigarette manufacturers have shown an increase in sales of their products by 5%. At the same time, market research shows a drop in the shadow economy in tobacco products by 1.5%. Year-to-year, from around 18.3% in 2015 to 16.8 in 2016, which means halting the growth trend seen since 2010. In addition, the legislative changes in force from January 2016 on intermediate tobacco operators trading in tobacco drought have contributed to a decrease in their number from 185 at the end of 2015 to 15 at the end of 2016, which clearly allows better control of their activities and the elimination of pathology in this area. In 2016, there was also an increase of 23% compared to the previous year in the amount of tax losses disclosed in the course of tax checks and control procedures carried out. The highest findings were made by the control authorities in VAT - 27,5 billion PLN, which represents an increase of over 26% for 2015. It should also be pointed out that there is a significant increase in disclosure of CIT tax losses - 75% as compared to the previous year, which is primarily the result of the commitment of fiscal control and the Customs Service to counter tax optimisation and abuse of transfer pricing. In addition, in 2016, tax offices in the country carried out activities to remove from the VAT and VAT registers of the European Union unreliable entities, thus enabling them to be removed from their economic turnover. A total of 62 560 entities which did not make a declaration of duty on goods and services were verified and as a result 30 776 entities were deleted from the VAT register, representing almost 50% and 12 730 entities were deleted from the VAT register of the European Union, representing more than 20% of the verified entities. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the reform currently being implemented and the creation of a tax administration in the country will make a decisive contribution to achieving even better [[♪ The bell ♪]] financial effects in the current year. To answer the second question, regarding the reasons for the resignation of Minister Wiesław Jasiński, I would like to say that those reasons were family and personal reasons. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u309	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u310	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, you were talking about everything, but not what your friend was just asking. We have clearly talked about the income from the tax on goods and services and the sealing of this tax. On the other hand, you have generally talked about the revenue of the state budget for the previous year, and these revenues do not consist only of tax revenues. You know that the question of profits from NBP or LTE-related amounts also affected the state's income. On the other hand, as far as the tax on goods and services is concerned, the VAT gap in general has increased, as revenues have only increased by 2,8%. , which, with a real 3% increase in consumption, states that by 0,2% the VAT gap has increased. I also have a question about an instrument that has been introduced, about a single control file. This instrument has already been introduced for large taxpayers since 1 July 2016, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and for medium-sized entrepreneurs it has already been introduced since 1 January 2017. But I'm asking about 2016. Is it true that there are no analytical programs in the Ministry of Finance and in the tax camera that will allow us to make full use of the data associated with the single control file and thus the possibility of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u311	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u312	...Eliminate empty invoices? I don't know that just because of the taxpayers' information that's been asking in the IRS about this data...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u313	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u314	...but also from the IRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u315	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Marian Banaś. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! To answer the last question, regarding the single control file, I would like to say that yes, we are in the process of working on the analyst of the single control file. At the moment we also have analytical instruments, and it is not that at the moment we have only data and they are not analysed. They're subject to and there's first results, and they'll be even bigger for... [[Either you're working, or...]] As for the previous question, regarding the details, as you asked, we will also answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u317	Thank you very much. The fifth question is asked by Mr Marek Kwitek, Mr Krzysztof July and Mrs Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club, on the current situation of fruit and vegetable producer groups in Poland, addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The first question is asked by Marek Kwitek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The seed farms in Poland are fragmented and the farmer is not able to negotiate prices which are often lower than production costs. The creation of producer groups was supposed to be one way to improve the situation of agricultural producers in terms of processing. Currently, there are about 300 groups of fruit and vegetable producers in Poland, and they deliver around 20% to the market. the general production of fruit and vegetables. Unfortunately, these operators are not able to effectively reduce supply and stabilise prices on the market. It should be noted that the producer groups received huge EU aid of PLN 7.6 billion in the period 2007 to 2013. The Union audit has shown major irregularities in the formation, functioning and financing of the groups. The aid was intended for groups created by family-related persons, and the groups themselves were often created as a result of the early division of holdings. Some groups incorrectly used the funds by concluding contracts for the purchase of inputs and real estate with members of the group, as well as the investment costs. Bad use of EU money was questioned in the case of 53 groups. Massive resources have been spent from the European Union budget, without building an appropriate control and verification system. Agriculture ministers of the previous PO-PSL coalition bear responsibility for this situation. Hence, after years of spending, the need to pay a huge penalty - PLN 700 million, which reduced the envelope for financing the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. Did Poland appeal this decision? What measures have been taken in this regard? Why didn't the EU spending control mechanism work? The judges in the producer groups say that, without decisive corrective action, disaster may soon occur. The great success of Polish producer groups and organizations can turn into a giant failure. It is not only about the wrong spending of money, because many groups do not function as they should, they have financial problems that could lead to their bankruptcy. There are also prosecutorial proceedings. Fruit and vegetable producer groups [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're afraid of foreign takeovers. Much can still be saved if concrete and rapid corrective action is taken. Will the Ministry take such action? Is it real that producer groups can go bankrupt because of financial problems and be able to buy from syndicates and take over by foreign capital? Is the Ministry considering...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u319	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u320	...to create for the state sector a fund that would recapitalise problem actors and carry out restructuring? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u321	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Jacek Bogucki will answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to inform you that the mechanism for the preliminary recognition of groups of producers of fruit and vegetables was implemented on the basis of Community provisions of Council Regulation No 1234/2007 and the current Implementing Regulation No 543/2011. As you have said, as a result of the European Commission's and the European Court of Auditors' audits, national procedures were considered insufficient and incompatible with European Union legislation. The highest number of objections were raised in relation to the conditions of preliminary recognition, and initial recognition was carried out at the time by the Marshal's Offices, and to the producer groups themselves in respect of overpayment of the purchase costs of machinery or investments. Following audits by the European Commission's auditors and the ECA in 2010 and 2013, this type of action was abandoned. As a result of these allegations, Poland was obliged in 2014 to introduce a recovery plan. With regard to the question on the consequences of the implementation of the corrective action plan, this plan is actually only being implemented since the Government's accession to the Law and Justice Government, so it is the end of 2015 and 2016. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture conducts activities concerning the control of spending of funds, while the Agricultural Market Agency, which took over documents from marshal offices, carries out a process in respect of initial recognition and recognition of producer groups. All groups with regard to the control of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture have been audited, including 51 groups which have not been able to confirm the fulfilment of the conditions for preliminary recognition. On the basis of these checks, the Agricultural Market Agency against 43 groups initiated verification procedures. At the moment, administrative proceedings are pending in respect of which appeals are made to the authority of the second instance, the Minister of Agriculture, and then decisions are brought before the administrative court. Only after the administrative procedure has been exhausted will it be possible to ultimately talk about the settlement of these cases and possibly further proceedings against these groups. In the proceedings of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, 1107 applications for financial assistance for 193 pre-approved groups were verified. It was found that in the case of a significant proportion of these groups, the reasonableness of the costs and the correctness of the granting of the aid could not be confirmed. To date 273 decisions have been issued on the determination of funds unduly paid. Unfortunately, Poland was punished by the European Commission in 2015 by EUR 55.5 million for the first check period, while for the second check period the decision was finally issued last year and concerns EUR 115,8 million. We appeal against these decisions. At the moment, the appeal concerns both the first and the second decisions. There are no final decisions in these matters. Current payments of 25% of both 2016 and 2017 are also suspended. Unfortunately, we cannot continue to support producer groups because the fruit and vegetable producer groups have been excluded from the possibility of such support. I can add that, in relation to some administrative procedures concerning the granting of aid and producer groups, there are also actions by law enforcement authorities on the finding of irregularities in this area. These proceedings take place, documents are collected. We don't know their results yet. The most difficult situation was the groups that were legally acting and are in financial difficulties at the moment, because we cannot help these groups, as I said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] aid for this type of group, for all groups, has been excluded in the new financial perspective and there is no possibility to provide financial assistance to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u323	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u324	Dear Minister, Yes, the Marshals and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture interpreted the law and issued decisions on the basis of which the aid was paid to the groups, and now the groups are blamed for the fact that they benefited from this aid. After all, those who created these artificial conditions for helping groups should be responsible. Meanwhile, it is farmers who appeal, who are dragged into this difficult process that the Minister spoke about. If today a decision is made that the groups are to repay the aid, it will result in the bankruptcy of further groups and the property can be transferred to foreign capital. Guilty of this state of affairs [[♪ The bell ♪]] They left the department of agriculture and agricultural agencies after the lost elections. Unfortunately, the consequences are borne by all of us. Why should farmers suffer the consequences of irregularities committed and not those responsible for decisions taken? What did the Ministry do about it? The European Commission has accused the lack of checks on the consistency and correctness of the control procedures...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u325	Please proceed to the punch line.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u326	...executed in marshal offices. It must be noted that the Ministry of Agriculture responsible for the action plan cannot question the decisions of the marshals' offices. Unfortunately, it happened...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u327	You are welcome, Member, to leave.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u328	...that these offices have annulled the negative assessments of the paying agencies concerning the status of recognition of the groups. There was therefore a need to amend the law. What has been the result of the revision of the rules in this respect and with what effect has the recovery plan been implemented since December 2014? According to the Ministry...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u329	Member, please finish. You've been out of time a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u330	...these statutory actions are sufficient? Thank you, Marshal, but this is very important to farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u331	I understand, but I have to apply the same measure to everyone. Please respond to Minister Jacek Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I would like to reassure you that the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and the two agencies on this matter is really very prudent. There is currently no recovery from producer groups on a scale that could be considered. The competent authorities are responsible for this situation, whereas administrative proceedings which take place where there was no irregularity in obtaining assistance under the applicable law at that time do not concern the recovery of money from groups. No group for this purpose has financial problems, no group for this purpose is recovered. Only small amounts are recovered where the group has actually incorrectly used the funds or wrongly settled in accordance with the applicable law at the time. So here I'd definitely like to cut it if the signals are coming. Among the many groups that work and work well, there are groups that were created only to obtain a grant. If such cases are proven, these groups will be recovered. But at the moment, as I said, administrative proceedings are ongoing, which do not have the effect of having to pay back money. Perhaps those who set up groups on purpose to recover funds, farmers, perhaps even their members, try to explain the problem of the group in this way. We approach each group individually, each group is individually analyzed and only if the group has simply committed fraud, simply fraud, is recovered. If the group acted in accordance with the law in force at that time and not today, the law does not work backwards and is therefore not recovered. The Minister of Agriculture has made a notification to the prosecutor's office about the crime, but it does not apply to farmers, it concerns officials where we have actually established on the basis of a check that the crime could have occurred. This is a notification in the case and not against anyone, because the relevant authorities of the State are from the point of view of explaining these situations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I would definitely and unambiguously like to say here: if there are problems in any group and the group acted in accordance with the applicable law, they do not result from the implementation of a recovery plan, from the recovery of anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u333	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Dorota Niedziela, Zbigniew Ajchler and Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Club, on the situation of poultry farmers in the face of highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N8 spreading throughout Poland. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Responsible for the Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The first question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My question is related to a difficult epizootic situation concerning the rapid spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N8 in Poland, the primary outbreak of which was found on 3 December 2016 in the municipality of Deszczno in the Lubuskie voivodship. Currently, on 8 February, a 43rd campfire was found in Oleśnica in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. Please answer the questions given to us by the injured breeders at the meeting with the breeders. First of all, why did the first small fire, 1800 geese, last 16 days in Rain? In the absence of a timetable for the collection of birds, the prolonged elimination of the outbreak poses a huge threat to the rapid spread of the dangerous virus. Secondly, why have farmers, even though measures have already been taken, not yet received any compensation? Farmers are waiting for this, have huge costs, increase both the costs of disposal and the losses themselves. So far they haven't been paid any damages, no one has given them any gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u335	Thank you very much. Still in that question, right? Right now? [[Yeah, yeah, we're in the block.]] You're welcome. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Why did you, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture on 26 January on the situation in the poultry market, deliberately lie to all its participants, including Members, denying in your reply to my statements and questions concerning the progress of the liquidation and euthanasia of poultry in the Gorzów district that this was not true and that this did not happen? During a live meeting with farmers in the Rain, organized by the village's governor, all the allegations I made at the agricultural committee meeting remained 100%. Confirmed. In addition to what she mentioned, there was no decision on the opposite slaughter in the outbreaks of still uninfected turkeys, and after three or four days there were gigantic losses. The transport and disposal of the litter took place as if the fertilizer was being spread over the road. There wasn't enough transport, there was no coordination. It was all chaos, we had our ears clogged before what people were saying in the Rain. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, that information wasn't from any of the opposition's informants. It was information from breeders who, in fear, blocked their names because you were scaring them. Finally, Minister, as a Member of the Republic of Poland, I will say this: you should be ashamed of such an attitude, for such lies. It is unacceptable for a minister of this rank to do something similar on the agricultural committee. We've been to the breeders. If you were there, they'd lynch you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u337	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u338	...for the non-work, the lie, and the lack of money. These people have nothing to live on.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u340	That's where people come in...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u341	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u342	...with various financial papers...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u343	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u344	...so they can secure their goods. Minister, this is not acceptable to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u345	Thank you very much, sir. However, please observe time discipline. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ewa Lech, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by saying that the avian flu, the African swine fever, and any public-controlled viral disease have no political colors, and I will not engage in any discussion. [[Yes, sir, I agree.]] As for Mr Ajchler's claim that the Minister for Agriculture was not there, perhaps Minister Jurgiel himself was not there, but I have been personally twice, and I assure you that the meetings were absolutely factual, we were explaining to ourselves some things about who it belongs to, what obligations are under the responsibility of farmers and what are the responsibility of inspection and the minister of agriculture. As far as questions are concerned about the actions of the Minister of Agriculture, there are two directions. Firstly, the creation of legislation, the giving of legal instruments, secondly, the provision of financial resources. And both are, and as far as EU rules and compensation are concerned, we have 90 days to do so. 90 days have not passed, the money is in the account, as requested by Lubuskie Voivodeship 13.9 million PLN has already been transferred to this purpose. Farmers will receive compensation, the principle being that farmers who have been killed by healthy poultry will first receive compensation. We wanted to take a step forward, which is to avoid the spread of fires, but unfortunately nature turned out to be such that this flu was spreading very quickly, and yet we are still dealing with its spread. Today we have a new bonfire in Wielkopolska, Lower Silesia, and I don't think I want to lie yet, another three bonfires. [[43.]] [[45.]] Yeah, but they're gonna be big flocks, like. one herd - 80,000. Ducks. So not only do we have the disease, but also in Europe. In Hungary we have 220 bonfires, in Poland we have 46 so far and no one will ensure that there will be no more bonfires. High Izbo! As regards the elimination of outbreaks, the elimination of birds, the export of birds for disposal, this is one problem, while the elimination, export of litter is another problem. There's a lot of stuff out there. This is several times more than the birds that have been destroyed, and we have to deal with it. Unfortunately, not in all cases farmers, farmers cooperate with us. They're just waiting for someone to do it for them, and the truth is, when they sell poultry under normal conditions for slaughter or for slaughter, they're moving the litter themselves, because it's a routine activity. In this case, however, we could count on it, and we do not always find such help. Indeed, the problem is big, because there is a lot of litter, but we are trying to manage it as much as we can. It's not just the disposal, because the rendering of this, first of all, an expensive process, you have to transport away, second, the rendering plant devices are just clogging themselves, so we're trying to mound it. Some farmers had the conditions to mound it at home, on the farm, some avoid it, do it in their fields, and in other cases, in probably three cases, we do it in old gravel pits and, of course, it also meets the protests of local farmers. So there are a lot of problems. I absolutely do not accept criticism that we are idle in this regard. We do what we can, but as always, when there is a major failure, there is initially some confusion, but it is not true that we have not contacted the breeders. The funds are provided, farmers will be compensated. In addition, those who did not have outbreaks on the holding, i.e. there was no avian influenza, and those in which they were taken out of an inspection order, i.e. farmers who do not belong to these groups, will receive money from national funds in accordance with the Council of Ministers Regulation, i.e. compensation for loss or inability to sell or decrease the value of poultry in protection and surveillance zones, i.e. those with avian influenza and those who have been killed by animals, birds under inspection will be compensated and the remaining farmers in the protection and surveillance zones will be compensated. It'll be about 25 zł to the turkey, 15 zł to the geese, ducks and 4 zł to the chicken, I think 5 zł. [[EU?]] No, it'll be national money. 30 million PLN, i.e. from all protection and surveillance zones. The Minister's actions are therefore absolutely visible. Of course, it's not the money where you go and get the money. As far as compensation is concerned, the farmer who received the decision granting such compensation will be compensated after the final closure of the outbreak, because certain obligations are imposed when the outbreak is established in the decision. After these duties have been carried out, such compensation shall be due. I still want to go back to compensation for farmers who didn't have flu. This will be paid on the basis of the calculated poultry pieces at the time when the decision was made whether the information of the district veterinarian that the flu was found, so the actions are broad and in our assessment sufficient. On the other hand, we are counting on the cooperation of breeders and that is all. [[They want to cooperate, but nobody listens to them, Minister.]] I don't agree with that opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u347	But I'm really, really asking, okay? [[Voice from the hall: Let him speak.]] Excuse me, sir, I'm in session, sir, okay? I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: If co-operation is to block the road on the export of the spawn, it is not co-operation. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Dorota Sunday - question. No? Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Iwona Michalek, Grzegorz Piechowiak and Michał Cieślak, the Law and Justice Club, on the need to abolish the mobile quota threshold for the existence of a crime of theft in place of the lower limit of 25% the minimum wage, addressed to the Minister of Justice. The first question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The moving threshold has been in force since 9 November 2013, when the fixed amount of PLN 250 was replaced by the equivalent of 1/4 of the lowest salary. Currently 25% The minimum wage corresponds to PLN 462,50, but since 1 January theft of this amount or object of this equivalent is already a violation, as the lowest salary is PLN 500. Currently, many traders complain that thieves, when they shoplift, calculate how much the loot is worth in order to respond in criminal mode if caught. This is a procedure in which due to a short limitation period it is easier to avoid liability and, moreover, police authorities are often unprepared for the role of a public prosecutor in a criminal offence against property theft. Moreover, the legislator did not conclude that the crime threshold of the theft was a value of one quarter of the monthly remuneration in force at the time of the act, and therefore the courts would always apply more appropriate rules to the perpetrator, and thus, at the time of the judgment, the act may already be a criminal offence, and the statute of limitations. Therefore, theft should be classified as a criminal offence or offence always the same, according to the real value of the stolen property, and not the amount of the minimum wage. Returning to the old methods of qualifying crime theft, I think, should be beneficial for an increased sense of justice in the application of the law to all citizens. I'd like to ask you about that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister: Is there any indication of the impact on the number of cases in the courts of the introduction of a mobile quota threshold on the minimum wage? How many of these cases have been statute-barred in court? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u349	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Warchoł corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. This is an important question for the exercise of justice in these minor matters, it would seem, but very burdensome. Every day it is heard that traders, traders, people running small local shops have a problem with a wave of petty thefts, and they are not able to hire professional security companies, just like large commercial networks. So that is indeed a major social problem, and also a problem related to the justice system, because the current system unfortunately allows for this kind of impunity. Why? Namely so-called. The walking threshold between the offence and the crime in the case of the theft, introduced, as you rightly pointed out, on 9 November 2013, when the fixed amount of PLN 250 replaced the equivalent of 1/4 of the lowest salary, just caused the problem that we are talking about here. And the statistics confirm it. Namely, we received data from several commercial networks which show that in July 2014, when the threshold of the theft was PLN 420, there were 21 such events. Then, when the threshold of the theft increased, and this was a year later, when it was already 437 PLN, the sum of losses and the number of the theft increased twice. Then a year later, when this was examined in July 2016, the catch limit was already PLN 462.50, there were 66 thefts for a total of over 22 thousand. zloty, or the sum of theft increases, the number of the theft increases, which upsets criminals. Definitely thieves are calculating in their criminal activities the threshold mentioned by the Member. So that the end of impunity in such cases, because they cause further acts, often much more serious, because nothing is as impudent as impunity. That is why there is our determined intervention in this direction and we have made appropriate changes. Namely, the legislative work is now at the stage of drafting a bill, which aims to change the method of overfishing carried out just in 2013 in relation to the offences referred to herein, art. 119 of the Code of Offences, but also of Art. 120 of the Code of Offences, Art. 122 Code of Offences and Art. 124 § 1 Code of offences, and we return to the quota criterion of defining this limit at the level of PLN 400. The question also concerned statistics. As far as statistics are concerned, in 2013 - I may limit myself to 2013 and 2014, the comparative period when this amendment was introduced - was terminated as a result of a limitation of 195 cases, proceedings were opened in 60 028 cases, the court of first instance settled in 57 842 cases and 195 cases were dismissed as a result of a limitation. A year later, these cases were dropped by almost 100 more, since in 2014 277 cases had already been dropped due to the limitation on the impact of 76 839 cases. A year later, 274 cases were dropped. In the middle of this year 169 cases have already been dropped due to limitation. It can be estimated that there will be more at the end of the year. So we see a fundamental change from what was before. Before that, there was a reduction, and I will remind you: in 2011 - 149 cases, in 2012 - 133 cases, in 2013 - 195 cases, and after the change there were 277 cases dropped. It is only unfortunately that we do not have statistics on the impact of the change in the threshold, and what other causes have had on this remission, e.g. The statute of limitations, but rightly pointed out that this 2013 amendment introduced an uproar of criminals who not only calculated themselves at the stage of the theft, but also calculated themselves at the stage of the proceedings, because it was good for them to postpone proceedings to pass on 1 January and to fall into a misdemeanor. Moreover, it was illogical. Imagine two thieves stealing things of similar value at the same time. One was judged in the old year, December 30, and January 1st, January 2. And already another responsibility - the one for the crime, the one for the misdemeanor. There's no logic here. So that I do not know what the legislator was driving in 2013, making such a change. What's more, this could be a situation... The courts state that they have to solve the problem so-called. total judgments. This forces the courts to re-qualify penalties, to re-qualify judgments, and there are problems with that. The amendment is therefore necessary and necessary. However, with regard to the second and third questions, as I said, unfortunately, we do not have full statistics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For my part, Commissioner, I can instruct the Institute of Justice, which is my responsibility, to investigate this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u351	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u352	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! In view of what you have said, the question is, where is the amount of 400 PLN coming from at the moment. This amount was PLN 250, then PLN 1/4, which is PLN 460, and now you're talking about PLN 400. When can we expect this project? That's the second thing. And last one. If you've been so kind and all the data you've read, you've provided us in writing, we'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Warchoł again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker! At the moment, in connection with this walking threshold of overfishing, this is 500 PLN, which is why we are lowering by 100 PLN, to 400 PLN. Why 400 PLN? Full agreement, there's always some arbitraryness here. We could choose 350 PLN, 250 PLN. We have taken into account, of course, the rise in prices, we have taken into account any other macroeconomic factors that should be taken into account here, and we have found that 400 PLN, i.e. the reduction from the current 500 PLN, will be the optimal threshold. Nevertheless, I stress that there are also allegations of arbitraryness, and I fully agree with that, but we cannot avoid that. We are therefore considering a thorough reform of the Code of Offences, which would systematize these offences. The point is to make criminal acts, such as: Just theft, the rape of a person, art. 130 misdemeanors, of course, leave them in the courts. We recently announced a proposal for a change. Perhaps here the judges of peace would have their share. However, the rest of these acts, we do not know in what direction This will continue, in my opinion, to be successful in administrative proceedings, simple, easy to judge and often, for example. on the verification of goods sold on the local market by the inspector, e.g. a health inspector who is competent in such matters. He could successfully lead these cases, and the appeal would be to the administrative courts. The execution would be faster, simpler and more understandable to the average citizen. Given that these authorities today have mandate rights, they would only exercise justice in administrative and legal proceedings, as is already the case today. Note the speeding of drivers at 50 km/h in the built-up area. I mean, it's up to the governor, which is the administration. But these are plans. As the reform of the Code of Offences is also being prepared, such questions are very much needed and helpful to us. As for the last question of the Member, on the issue of numbers, of course all these figures, statistics, we will pass on. [[When's the project?]] When's the project? The project is already at a fairly advanced stage. I estimate that we will be able to carry it out effectively this quarter. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u355	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask if this is true, as the Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Development claims, that due to a delay of 10 months in starting the tasks from the current financial perspective of the European Union for the 2014-2020 period, i.e. the current one, it is estimated that Poland will have to pay more to the European Union for 2016 than it will receive from it. During the 11 years of Poland's presence in the European Union, for every zloty paid by us to the common budget, there were 4 PLN, which came back to us. Since the beginning of our presence in the Union, Poland has received a net of around 74 billion euros. In 2016, this trend has stopped for us. As regards 2016, Poland has become a net payer in the European Union for the first time, which means we are paying more than we received. That's the first question. Second question. Do you know, the State of PiS, that because of the chaos concerning education reform, even the states of the ranks are breaking and the regional structures of PiS in Gdańsk today at the city council session did not support the resolution of the PO adapting the school to this country's resolution, the law? The question is whether it's a split or cowardice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kwieciński is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you so much for that question. The question was appropriate, because in fact at the end of 2015, and especially in November, the government forecasts indicated that Poland would be a net payer for the EU budget in 2016, i.e. He will receive less money than he will pay. This was absolutely justified because during this period the amount of funds which the Commission transferred to Poland as a result of transfers, e.g. in cohesion policy, it was zero and Poland was last in line with the use of cohesion policy. But I would like to assure you that this situation has changed dramatically during 2016 thanks to the preparation and implementation by the government of a plan for speeding up and increasing the effectiveness of operational programmes under the 2014-2020 financial perspective, as part of the Partnership Agreement. The result of this plan is that Poland was the only member country of the European Union in 2016. certification plan, i.e. spent money, certified it for compliance with operational programmes and forwarded it to the European Commission. Poland received the most transfers for projects carried out in 2016, almost EUR 3 billion - another country, Portugal, that was 1,200 million - which resulted, among others. that 1/3 of all payments made by the European Commission came from Poland to all Member States. These actions have definitely translated into the balance sheet of transfers. At the end of 2016, transfers from the European Union budget to Poland amounted to 10 billion, payments to the budget amounted to 4.5 billion, which means that net Poland had a surplus of 5.5 billion, i.e. thanks to government actions we obtained a positive balance of transfers between Poland and the European Union. I can also give you the data here. The accumulated transfers since the beginning of Poland's presence in the European Union - these transfers from the European Union amounted to PLN 133 billion. At that time Poland paid 44 billion and received EUR 89 billion from the European Union. So thanks to the government's efforts it managed to maintain a positive result of transfers between Poland and the European Commission last year. Most of these transfers actually came from cohesion policy, more than 5 billion. Next: from the common agricultural policy it was about 4.5 billion, from the Connecting Europe Facility - over EUR 200 million, from other items - slightly less. So that we were able to save ourselves from oppression in this situation, because this is what these preliminary forecasts were actually pointing out at the end of 2015. Thank you very much. The second question, I understand, wasn't addressed to me... [[Oh, no.]] ...because it concerned the sphere of education. I would ask you to refer him to your colleagues at the Ministry of Education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u359	Thank you very much. Once again, the question is asked by Mrs... [[No, thank you.]] There's no second question, thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Wojciech Buczak, Law and Justice. You're welcome. First Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, right? You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u360	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Direct oversight of aviation in Poland, including amateur aviation, about which we want to ask, has the Civil Aviation Authority. According to him, there are more than 3,000 registered and registered in Poland. airplanes. However, practitioners point out that of this number maybe 1/5 has a constant ability to fly, of which only a few dozen are amateur planes. When we compare the situation with other countries, it turns out that we are at the gray end. We look worse than Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, not to mention France or Germany. Why is this happening? Well, Poland is probably the only country in the European Union that has not taken advantage of the opportunity offered by the Union, to remove amateur aviation from the strict supervision of ULC and to transfer it under the supervision of social and non-governmental communities. As a result of this decision many Poles summer, yes, but in foreign colors, and thus not subject to Polish supervision, pays contributions and other fees to foreign associations, makes licenses and reviews in other countries, and the related industry develops abroad. Over the past years, the representatives of the previous government have been unsuccessfully trying to get through to the representatives of amateur aviation, but the previous government has been deaf to their requests. And isn't that the hope of an innovative development of this sector? Isn't this a chance for new jobs? Isn't this a chance for Polish licenses or finally for white and red colors in the Polish sky? Minister, what is the position of the Ministry on handing over aviation oversight to amateur social and non-governmental organisations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u361	Thank you very much. Responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Jerzy Szmit. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Dear ladies and gentlemen, The problems of ultralight aviation or small aircraft in general since the start of operation of the Government of Law and Justice have found a very valuable place in the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. We have received very many signals from the aviation community about the need to change regulation in this regard. To make the case run, in May ub. The draft law was sent to the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, I apologise, and was sent to the list of government work by the draft law. It was entered under UD85, and on 25 July it was addressed to a broad public consultation, which received many comments and concerns from the environment, which are currently being analysed. We sent this project for analysis to 26 environments. All the environments have responded, and this is indeed a rare thing when it comes to consultation, but we are all the more pleased that this project has echoed such an echo. I am talking about 26 entities, but some of them also represent a number of other entities, these are federations, associations bringing together different environments, so we can say that we have received dozens of opinions on the bill. They are very different, they relate to different aspects. And these projects, and these amendments, and these proposals we are examining very thoroughly. Our goal is to really direct the bill to further work at the end of March and April. On the other hand, High Izbo, we have two problems here when it comes to the regulation of ultralight aviation. The first problem concerns the way in which it is carried out, which is actually the entity that will supervise this type of aviation. Let me remind you that this is about aircraft with a maximum take-off mass of up to 600 kg. This is one thing, which is who, how it is: whether it will be ULC, whether it will be another regulator... As you said, it may not be in all countries, but there is a part of the European countries where the oversight of this type of aviation is carried out by social bodies which are excluded from civil aviation authorities there. On the other hand, the second scope of regulation for this aviation sphere, and it seems to me that even more important, is the scope of the matter, and therefore what we will regulate and how will be the criteria for allowing aircraft to fly, which qualifications will have to be met by pilots who want to use these small aircraft. This is the second necessary area of regulation. Faced with this issue, because even if we were to change the regulatory entity itself, which would be one or another, we need to define the framework for its functioning. It cannot be that if there is a right, if these are entities that perform de facto certain tasks for the State, the State must define their assessment criteria, the scope of operation, responsibility, etc., the entire procedures. In order to be able to do so, we have also started to work on amending the regulation on the exclusion of certain provisions of the Aviation Law to certain types of aircraft and to lay down the conditions for the use of these ships. In short, I will give you a number of directions which this regulation will cover. Point 1: Extension of the scope of the exemptions contained in the existing Regulation based on Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 4 of the Aviation Law Act, on other flying equipment classified in the Aircraft Classification Regulation. Paragraph 2: linking possible formal, operational, technical and requirements to persons operating flying equipment. It is about making requirements more flexible, which today are very rigid and described in a very rigid way. Point 3: Minimisation of formalities relating to aircraft production. Paragraph 4: placing emphasis on the responsibility of both airmen and those who manufacture, manufacture or construct aircraft. Paragraph 5: to increase the availability of technical assessment of flying equipment by, for example, extending the catalogue of operators that may carry out such assessment. Paragraph 6: abolition of the obligation to carry out a number of administrative activities by the President of the Civil Aviation Office or an entity authorised on the basis of provisions issued pursuant to Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 10, that's a departure from these powers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Point 7: Simplification of a number of provisions. Paragraph 8: Simplification and harmonisation of formal requirements in sub-categories of similar flying equipment, including removal of similar and duplicate content in individual Annexes. Finally, reducing both the volume of the Regulation and increasing its readability, and consequently the above. Changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u363	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Wojciech Buczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I thank the Minister very warmly for his actions in this direction and for what is important, what is a new custom, that this is done in dialogue with the environment, taking into account the opinion of the environment. But I have a question for the Minister if it is not possible to speed up the revision of these rules and simplify them, because we have signals from people who are dealing with this problem, that they are already at the brink of endurance of these various associations and organisations dealing with ultralight aviation. That's one thing. Secondly, legislation must be radically simplified in this respect. In comparison, it takes a week to register such an ultralight aircraft in the Czech Republic, maybe two, in Poland it takes several months. This causes that only 20 aircraft were registered in Poland last year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and that was less than in 2015. This also affects the development of the aviation industry, the production of ultralight aircraft also in a region like mine, in the air valley. A hot request for acceleration and a question of whether this is possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Szmit again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We are really doing everything we can to present both the draft law and the draft regulation as quickly as possible. We're close, I think. I have even given specific dates, maybe: I have set dates, because they were not deadlines for the day, I have outlined the horizon of the time in which we want to present concrete projects for further work, for such real consultations both external and internal, within the government. On the other hand, I also wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen, about the very good effects of the law, which in August ub. r. The High Sejm decided to adopt, namely the Act on the change of classification of airports. It is about giving the possibility to obtain the status of an airport of non-certified public use. This is very easy when it comes to accessing airports. And I must tell you with great satisfaction, to present this to the High House, that, thanks to the decision of the High House, 21 airports have already submitted requests for conversion, for use of this law, in 15 cases this procedure has already ended and has in fact been granted. And here are airports in Zielona Góra, in Jelenia Góra, in Leszno, a very important glider airport, airport in Nowy Targ, with a very ambitious aviation environment, or in Poznan-Kobylnica. About the other airports, and I said 9:00, the procedures are in progress. And 2 airports, which today are only airfields, want to turn into airports, so they also raise the issue of access to them by users who will simply be able to enjoy all the attractions and all the opportunities offered by flying or flying other aircraft. High Izbo! We want to do this as soon as possible, to the fullest extent possible, but the matter is indeed complex. We must remember that the Law of Aviation is the law that also determines the life and health of people. Because, you know, aviation is such a human activity, which is because we're floating above the ground, just dangerous. It can be dangerous for both those who fly and those who are on earth. We must therefore take all these aspects into account. But once again, the will of the government to present as soon as possible the far-reaching changes in this area is and I think that we will soon be able to present and evaluate the relevant projects to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u367	Thank you very much, Minister. Now we move on to the next question that will be asked by Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Dariusz Starzycki from Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Premium services are currently one of the biggest problems that mobile customers can face. Premium SMS is a payment method for activating the service. The most frequently paid text messages are sent in connection with participation in the competition, obtaining a code for accessing content on the Internet, wanting to get a horoscope, tracking people after giving a phone number, etc., etc. Premium service managers can come up with different ways to get subscribers to activate subscriptions. Unfortunately, they often omit information about the cost and consequences of activation of the service. However, it seems to me that the problem could be partly resolved by imposing clear information obligations on the operators of the parties, responsibilities for reliable information on the price of the message and by imposing sufficiently high sanctions for non-compliance with those obligations. My question: Is the Ministry planning to take action to protect subscribers of mobile networks from increased premium fees?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of this problem, could it not also be possible to apply such legal solutions to ensure that the inclusion of a premium service requires an informed decision of the customer? So by default such services would not be available when concluding a contract or activation of a card. Today it is the opposite, which causes - as my colleague Gonciusz said here - a lot of problems, unnecessary nerves in people who have come into contact with this type of service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Woźny corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! To answer this question, first of all, I would like to point out that we certainly do not have a situation in which subscribers are vulnerable to these services and to those risks that relate to services with increased charges. We must be aware that when it comes to any kind of fraud, including those that are carried out using premium rate services, i.e. services with increased charges, it is a continuous game of cops and thieves. It is so that when some kind of restriction is introduced, those who are dishonest entrepreneurs offer unfair services, think about how to interpret laws or how to invent a service that escapes those regulations that have been introduced. So, I would say, in any kind of service of this kind associated with an increased fee this logic of permanent escape and play police and thieves is included, that is some kind of certainty. The point is that the state reacts actively and quickly to what is happening in this market. Maybe I can tell you what it looks like right now with regard to the regulation of services with increased charges, so that we know where we are and what actions can be taken in the future. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that, as of today, in telecoms law, we have provisions that require telecoms service providers to communicate to subscribers, together with the service, price information for these increased services. Operators who provide mobile services, i.e. service providers, are required to provide information on services with an increased fee and are required to provide this information in a clear manner. If it is so that subscribers use services with an increased fee in a repeatable manner, the supplier should provide a clear and legible information on the user's use of the service. The provider of a publicly available telecommunications service shall be required to indicate the name of the entity providing such services with an increased fee. These are the obligations of suppliers and telecommunication operators, because, remember, rarely do telecommunication operators and mobile operators provide these services themselves. They simply give access to their users to such service providers with increased payment. The second point is that, with the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, there is an open register of numbers with an increased fee. What is very important is that telecoms and mobile operators have entered into standardization agreements that provide for uniform numbering in all mobile networks for the needs of these high-charged services as well as uniform numbering ranges. So the market has sorted some issues itself, because already based on the numbers that we send SMS to use premium services, we can find out if we can figure out what kind of fees we should count on. Let us remember that according to the regulations that operate in Poland at the moment, the subscriber already has a number of possibilities to block premium services: he can tell his operator that he is going to block these services at all, and then he will not have access to these services, he can indicate the type of services that he does not want access to, he can indicate the maximum unit price for the service he is offered, and finally he can set the threshold for the services he wants to pay for using the increased fee. If those provisions are not respected, then the President of the Office of Electronic Communications shall be able to impose a penalty on the telecommunications trader, the operator who does not allow the use of those rights to the subscriber. That's what it is today. What is the problem that has been diagnosed recently? It turns out that these dishonest service providers instead of offering an opportunity... There are two, I'd say, right now the pathologies we're finding. Firstly, in the case of services with increased charges, the way of editing information about these services is illegible enough to mislead users as to the cost of using these services and the expected financial effects of using such a service. That's one thing. The second thing: instead of premium services, free SMS messages are sent instead of premium SMS, which tells you that if you want to get a benefit, you have to send a SMS to some account number or call somewhere. As of today, Polish law does not provide for blockades or opportunities to protect subscribers from receiving free text messages, i.e. actions that we will take in this area... Once, it is an action on the practice of implementing these rules. Together with the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, we are currently registering all cases of unfair suppliers, all cases where the communications provided by suppliers are illegible enough to mislead users. We also conduct these studies in such a way that we try to find out what the level of readability of the message that is sent to them is and how much they have the ability to recognize it. We are also thinking about introducing legislation that will prevent them from receiving these free text messages that they are redirecting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] then to use paid, unfair premium rate services. However, what is important, we must remember that in such situations we need to know about not pouring out a child with a bath and to protect from pathologies, not vanquishing, not annihilating the entire market of paid services offered to mobile subscribers, because this is a market worth about PLN 1 billion. People want to use these services. We have to do it in such a way as to exterminate...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u372	Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Piotr Woźny: ...these unfair practices, and give the opportunity to provide services to honest entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You said the market was worth about 1 billion. Are these data that are really detailed? Do you have such data from operators - specifically from each operator - about what is traffic on the network, just when it comes to premium SMS? If such data are available and available, I would ask you to inform us of the real size they are. If this is, as you mentioned, a market worth PLN 1 billion, then the money is actually quite large. I went to the living room myself and asked. A few, sometimes several people with complaints about this premium SMS are reported to such a mobile phone shop every day. Doesn't the ministry foresee e.g. some information campaign, because not everyone is aware that SMS premium entails such costs, or can it work in this direction so as not to fire a baby with a bath? And so do I. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What my friends said earlier...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u375	...men, however, so that operators are obliged in the contract to ensure that these texts can be blocked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u376	Mr Piotr Woźny again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u377	Mr. Speaker! We will provide details, we will obtain them from the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, who collects information about services provided by operators and prices for these services, this is shown in reports on the telecommunications market in Poland. I think the idea of an information campaign is, I would say, extremely important. What we are talking about here today, and this question perfectly fits into the process of reviewing the resorts, which lately Prime Minister Szydło led along with the ministers. Minister Streżyńska informed during this review that the issue of premium SMS Rate and protection of users against unfair entrepreneurs is one of the most important things that we have on the agenda this year as the Ministry of Digitalization. I think the information campaign... It is so that in order to effectively make these changes... I have tried to provide information on the kind of obligations that telecom service providers have today. These are, I'd say, duties that seem to close fairly tightly, quite tightly against abuse. I also talked about the kind of rights that subscribers have. So here we have the obverses and the reverses, the responsibilities and powers of the two sides of the telecommunication contracts. As I said, the biggest pathology for today seems to be free text messages, which then redirect to the use of paid text messages. Regulation for the purposes of this type of situation is not yet in the law. The value of the market is quite significant and significant, so we know that telecom operators, these four mobile operators, will cooperate with us on the development of such regulations, because they are also interested in ending this mechanism, because it is ultimately against them that fury, anger and frustration of subscribers turn. So I think all kinds of ideas... One thing is the practice of implementing these rules, the other is the appropriate regulation, which is certainly needed when it comes to the issue of these free text messages, and the third is an information campaign for which we can use telecommunications operators, as we used them to register prepaid phone numbers, which ended at the end of January. There was a crash and a great drama on the telecommunications market, stopping and stopping a whole lot of telecommunications traffic and telephone calls. Nothing like this has happened, i.e. if these changes are introduced by the administration in cooperation with mobile operators, they are well planned and then communicated both by the administration and by the operators, then we are able to fight the pathologists effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u378	Thank you very much, Minister. The last question is asked by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Please answer what the Minister of Culture does to save from destruction such a valuable technical culture institution of Poland, which is the Museum of Technology and Industry. It is an institution, an institution important for Polish culture, education and science. Thanks to the great sacrifice and many years of work of two directors of this museum: Mr Czesław Ługowski and the late Pope. Mr Jerzy Jasiuk, the museum has become an extremely attractive educational institution, shaping young people's interests and patriotic attitudes. It reminds us of the great achievements of outstanding Polish scientists and engineers. The Museum of Technology and Industry was established in Warsaw in 1953, in the Palace of Culture and Science has been operating since 1955, continuing the ideas and works of the Museum of 1875 founded on the initiative of Prince Jan Lubomirski and Count Józef Zamoyski, as well as the Museum of 1929, which he created in the Eng. Kazimierz Jackowski, murdered in Katyn. In 1955, the Museum was entrusted to the General Technical Organisation and was located in the Palace of Culture and Science. Currently, the museum began the process of group redundancies. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage continues negotiations and does not intend to take over the fired workers or the costs of running a technical museum. Due to lack of resources, the Chief Technical Organization refused, there is no possibility of running a museum and started a group release procedure. The dismissal of employees will begin the process of winding up the technical museum. You have to know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that most of the museum collections - Mr. Marshal, really two more words - come from private donations. The museum has unique, valuable collections in the field of the history of Polish technology, it also has several branches that document the glory and size of Polish engineers and Polish technology. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u380	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few words about the professor's history. I will only say that in the light of the legislation of the Polish People's Republic, when the museum was founded, the museums did not have legal personality and all were treated as state institutions managing the property of the State Treasury. The situation changed after 1989. In 1991, state and local museums obtained the status of cultural institutions and legal personality. Only such institutions, set up by central offices and local authorities, could be financed directly from the budget. Other museums have become organisational units of legal entities such as universities, associations and other organisations. One such museum was the Museum of Technology and Industry of the Technical Organization. In today's legal state, the museum is therefore a private museum with no legal personality. It is managed by the Federation of Scientific and Technical Associations NOT having the status of association. This organisation represents 40 scientific and technical associations of 110 000. engineers and technicians. This means that formally the collection of the technical museum has the status of a private collection and in extreme circumstances it can actually be put up for sale or placed on a commercial auction. This also means that as a cell of a non-governmental organisation, i.e. a private organisation, it cannot be kept by public funds. Over the years, Polish governments did not care about the actual legal status of this institution and continued to finance it directly from the state budget. Until 2011, the funding of the facility was included in the budgets of various departments: economy, and this is the treasure, and this is the science, most recently, in the years 2004-2011, in the budget of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. With the reform of science in 2011, permanent financing of the museum's activities became impossible and possible support was limited to the competition procedure in the programmes of the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Obviously, such a method of financing of activities prevented the smooth operation of the museum and led to a loss of liquidity as it was not a guaranteed grant, it resulted from competitions. As the professor mentioned, the long-term director of the Museum of Technology and Industry, Jerzy Jasiuk, for years, proposed the creation of a national technical museum with the status of a state cultural institution, because he was well aware of the threat posed by the private status of the collection and the possibility of losing permanent funding. Professor, for several years, with the support of the Ministry of Culture, there has been an inter-ministerial exchange of correspondence aimed at resolving this problem and renewing permanent financing so important from the point of view of the Polish state of the museum. In 2015, it was considered that the best formula would be the creation of a museum by the Minister of Economy and co-hosting it together with NOT, following the Piłsudski Museum in Sulejówka, which is co-led by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and the Foundation of the Piłsudski Family. The draft agreement and the statute were confirmed by the then Secretary of State in the Ministry of Economy, Jerzy Pietrewicz, unfortunately the project was not realized because at the last moment of signing the agreement Janusz Piechociński refused the then Minister of Economy. But here I also need to make some criticisms about NOT. The Management Board of NOT has not developed any funding model for years, nor has it used other available possibilities to finance museum activities both in the field of education and exhibitions and investments, e.g. - we have checked this - from the programmes of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage or from the European funds for which NGOs can apply. We have not found such conclusions in recent years at the Ministry of Culture. The lack of fixed revenues caused the payment for rent for the rental of premises in the Palace of Culture and Science to be suspended. The company managing the Palace of Culture belongs to the M.S. Warsaw, a rapidly growing debt for unpaid rent caused termination of the contract by the management company of the Palace of Culture and Science and the issuing of an order to leave occupied premises until 30 September. That's when we came in. The Minister of Culture and National Heritage, although he is not a party to this dispute, in recognition of the huge historical value of the collection gathered and in respect of the experience of the long-term employees of this institution, sent a letter to the president of the capital city of Warsaw on 30 September, declaring his willingness to create a national museum of technology - a new state cultural institution based on the collections and a team of employees of the previous Museum of Technology and Industry. Minister Gliński declared his willingness to co-host the new museum by three ministries: Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Development and Ministry of Science and Higher Education with the participation of NOT as co-founder. He also offered to co-host the institution to the authorities of Warsaw, but they delayed with a clear answer for the next 4 months. In November Ub. In implementing the September declaration, the Minister of Culture sent a draft letter of intent to the potential co-organizers of the National Museum of Technology on this matter, which was to be preceded by an agreement on co-hosting the institution and giving its statutes. At this stage it seemed that the national technical museum could be established on January 1, 2017. Unfortunately, the Management Board of NOT questioned some of the provisions of the letter of intent, demanding not employment, but the acquisition of employees currently employed in the technical museum, as well as the payment by the budget of the State of NOT's debt to employees. However, this would be illegal because NOT is a non-governmental, private, legal and independent financial policy organisation. In this situation, the negotiations are at a dead end. In addition, NOT, seeing that repayment [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government's debts are not possible, it has withdrawn from the previous declaration of gifting the collections to the national technical museum and proposed the Minister of Culture to sell them, i.e. to buy them, which completely changes the existing arrangements. Nevertheless, in the interest of the value of the collection and the well-being of the staff of the institution, three vice-premieres: Gliński, Gowin and Morawiecki maintain the will to create a national technical museum, but the changed conditions laid down by NOT require further talks.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u382	Thank you very much, Minister. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: I'm almost done. At the end of January, the Deputy President of Warsaw declared, in turn, that the city of Warsaw is interested in joint responsibility for the new institution, which was accepted with some surprise, because we waited for it 5 months, but positively. So the conversations are going on, and we want to create a national technical museum. Thank you very much, Minister. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: It will be a museum of three ministers, just three Deputy Prime Ministers, and - I hope - m.st. Warsaw, but first NOT has to settle its affairs. Thank you very much. Thank you. Will the Member ask an additional question? Please, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to thank Minister Sellin very much for these optimistic messages. I think the Chief Technical Organization and its authorities will understand how valuable the collections collected at the museum are. I would also like to say that many of these collections - apart from the collections there is still a huge archive - prove the great glory of Polish technology. Minister, an additional question. The museum included several very important branches, among others. Museum of Steel and Machinery Industry in Chlewiska, museum in Gdansk, Museum of Ancient Steel in Nowa Słupia, Museum of the Old Polish Oblast in Sielpi. So that these branches are extremely valuable and they show the huge achievements of Polish industry and Polish culture, and Polish technology. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's gonna happen to those troops?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u384	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Sellin again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u385	Professor! Mrs. Member! Unfortunately, I am not able to answer this question precisely at this moment, except for Gdansk, because I am also a Member from Gdansk. There was a water forge from the 17th century, also as part of a technical museum. NOT simply stopped taking care of this branch, handed it over to the city and the city of Gdańsk has now decided to finance, maintain and repair, because this facility required significant renovation. It is a very important monument in the history of the city of Gdańsk. I must say that, according to the knowledge I now have, but I can verify it and in writing reply to it, simply NOT expresses its désintéressement here for a moment. And I'm gonna check the other three, and I'm gonna answer in writing, too, because I'm just not sure at this point. [[They're very old, beautiful museums.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u386	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current meeting of the Sejm will consider information on the labour market situation, the lowest in the history of unemployment and the rise in wages in the economy, facilitations for companies and new investment zones, innovation as part of development policy, which was requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. The time allowed for considering this point shall not exceed 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Sławomir Zawislak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u387	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! After badly assessed by voters during the PO-PSL coalition, the government of Law and Justice, rebuilding Polish statehood, took care of neglected in many areas of the labour market sector and takes effective action for the development of the Polish economy. 2016 was a good year on the Polish labour market, started with more than 1.5 million unemployed people, ended with a number of 200 thousand. less and an unemployment rate of 8.2 percentage points. That's the best score I've had in 25 years. At the same time, almost 1.5 million job offers were submitted to the labour offices last year. That's another record, too. This is partly the result of the external economic situation, but without the government's particular activity, the financial resources involved would certainly not have been such a great success. Current labour force participation and employment rates in Poland have significantly improved compared to indicators in other countries of the European Union. Thanks to the 2016 decisions, the minimum wage from the new year amounts to 2 000. zł. For the first time, it was also taken care of those who worked on civil law contracts. From 1 January, the rate of 13 PLN per hour applies. Raising the tax-free amount of PIT is lower taxes for more than 3 million of the least earning citizens. The government supports employers to want to hire new workers, and encourages them to hire workers for employment contracts, not to leave them in the grey zone. The means for combating unemployment are better used, directed where they are really needed. At the same time, I would like to emphasise the improvement of the professional activation of the unemployed. Last year there was a significant increase in the number of activated. The Government of Law and Justice is building a solidarity economy and therefore its policy is aimed at the even development of all regions of the country. Since the beginning of the term of office, the difference between the unemployment rate in the most and least affected voivodships has fallen. The idea of rebuilding the Polish economy is based on the idea of economic patriotism. The measures implemented include: support for the development of companies. It is also an effort to increase investment, investment in innovation. Easier for entrepreneurs is proposed. In implementing the new economic development policy of the country, the government presented a plan for responsible development. the plan of Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The deregulation law entered into force on 1 January. It is savings for entrepreneurs and the introduction of a legal certainty clause to protect their business from the effects of changes in the interpretation of tax law. The constitution for business was announced, the second stage of the reform of Polish law, to facilitate the conduct of business in Poland and a package of 100 changes for companies. The CIT tax for small companies was reduced to 15%. He'll be able to use it for nearly $400,000. companies, i.e. about 90% CIT taxpayers. The process of recolonization of the banking sector and the effective defence of Polish economic interests abroad began - here was the intervention of Mr Morawiecki's Deputy Prime Minister in the Ursus case. It is very important that the Government of Law and Justice focuses on investment, innovation, exports, highly processed products, not on credit or consumption. It is very important for economic development to speed up the use of European funds with a view to 2014.2020. Thanking for the projects already taken good for the Polish people, while waiting for the next, I have a question to Minister Jerzy Kwieciński about the possibility of changing the law, among others. the law of 3 February 1995 on the protection of agricultural and forestry land, with a view to abolishing the provisions on the obligation to exclude from agricultural land production within the limits of special economic zones and economic activity zones. In particular, the provisions imposing an obligation to pay charges and annual charges for land removal, which significantly increase the costs associated with their conversion into construction sites and thus adversely affect the investment climate in the economic activity area, usually the eastern regions of a country with lower, uninvolved, communication and investment attractiveness, such as. Zamość city area. Given the sustainability of all regions of Poland, I believe that the current provisions have a negative impact on competitiveness [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ww. regions resulting in economic slowdown in their territory. One last question, Marshal. I ask you to assess the extent to which European funds are used by voivodships and to assess their impact on the country's economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u388	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The answer to the questions we have asked is divided into two parts, I will refer to the situation in the labour market, Minister Jerzy Kwieciński will address the second part of the questions concerning the facilitation of companies concerning the plan for responsible development of Mr Morawiecki, so that there is full knowledge. Of course, I can only confirm that with regard to the situation on the labour market, we have the best situation today for 25 years. We have the lowest unemployment rate: in December it was 8.2, in January it is 8.7% unemployed, 1300 thousand. people without jobs. As I said, this is the lowest result, but also the dynamics of the drop was very high in the last year. It is important to know how many jobs there were - more than 1.5 million jobs have been reported by employers in 2016. And of course this is an increase compared to previous years. This also shows the situation with regard to the labour market. As far as issues related to the level in the various regions of the country are concerned, we still have a large diversity of unemployment, from the lowest rate in the Wielkopolska voivodship, from 5% to the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, where unemployment is more than 14% Unfortunately, there are still areas, districts where unemployment is two-digit. These data are very good and we are happy with these data, but of course in all of this it must be made clear that if we are talking about unemployment, we are currently dealing with a more difficult situation when it comes to activating people without work. Almost 60% of the unemployed are long-term unemployed, i.e. unemployed over 12 months. The problem is also that most people return after registration from unemployment, after various forms of activation, to unemployment again. That's the problem we have to deal with right now. An important element in this work on low unemployment is the resources that we spend on active forms of combating unemployment, both from the Labour Fund - more than PLN 3.5 billion and from the European Social Fund - these funds are complementary, over PLN 6600 million for active forms of combating unemployment. Over 500,000 were created from this. jobs, e.g. reimbursement of job creation costs, financing of business start-up costs. The loan system that we implement with the help of Bank Gospodarki Krajowej also works well. More than 700 loans have been granted in this area, which also create jobs. These are statistics that talk about a good situation on the labour market. Of course, we are happy with the first part, but as I said, the long-term unemployed who are returning are the biggest problem facing us. We also want to amend the Promotion Act in order to spend funds even more effectively and effectively. As for the part of the wage question, last year was the year in which we made very brave decisions, on the one hand raising the minimum wage to 2 000. zł, it was even higher growth than the social partners proposed. The second point is the introduction of a minimum hourly rate for contracts-contracts at the level of 13 PLN from 1 January. This is the element to which we very much point out that, together with the good situation on the labour market, there must also be an improvement in the situation with regard to the level of wages. When we collide with the information that the average gross wage in 2016 was more than PLN 4200, these are optimistic figures in terms of wage increases. This is short information on the labour market situation. As I said, we are preparing to amend the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market in order to spend even more effectively and effectively on the active fight against unemployment, but also on creating jobs. I think the second part will be presented to Minister Kwieciński. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u390	Thank you very much. Now I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Jerzy Kwieciński for a second part of his reply. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you so much for the questions. I would like to make it clear that the government has prepared a strategy for responsible development and has consistently implemented it since last year. One of the most important elements is to ensure the sustainable development of our country as a whole. Among other things, this is based on abandoning the existing model, which was a polarised and diffusion model, for sustainable development. We want to end with a breakdown between Poland A and Poland B in terms of the implementation of our country's development strategy. Examples of new actions may include: large infrastructure projects, which are implemented in Eastern Poland, e.g. Via Carpatia or Via Baltica project, which also passes through less developed areas. We also see that e.g. The 500+ programme, which is implemented as part of family-friendly policy, social policy, the Responsible Development Strategy, has effectively eliminated poverty in the poorest regions of our country. We are making effective changes in the economic environment, especially in the environment for companies, and especially for small and medium-sized companies. As part of this, we plan to prepare and implement the business constitution, the most important part of which will be the law for entrepreneurs. We are implementing legal changes within the package of 100 changes. 30 of these changes have already entered into force since the beginning of January this year. Among other things, these changes are such that taxpayers will no longer have to apply for an individual tax interpretation, honest entrepreneurs will have less control, companies not up to 20, but already up to 50 employees will not have to create an occupational social benefit fund or prepare, issue labour regulations and pay regulations. We are working on another seven pieces of legislation that will allow us to implement all these 100 changes this year. This means not only simpler rules, but more money in the accounts and pockets of the entrepreneurs concerned. We are also making changes in economic zones. In 2016, we extended the borders of 12 out of 14 economic zones, only with the exception of Kamienna Góra and Suwałska, where these changes were not made. We expect that this will result in investments of PLN 26 billion, which will allow the creation of almost 200,000 directly and indirectly in the environment. jobs. What is very important, thanks to the changes introduced in these zones, they invest not only foreign companies, but also companies with Polish capital. For example, in 2016 from 305 completed investments in 162 zones, investments were Polish investments. As for innovation, this is very important for us, it is one of the most important elements of our It concerns reindustrialisation measures, i.e. giving a new dimension to the industrialisation of our country. We also want to introduce innovation in Polish companies, we want that it was the key to building capital in Polish companies and to going outside. Within the framework of the "Strategy for Responsible Development," we have prepared a number of so-called ones. flagship projects, e.g. In the program Electromobility we have a project for electric bus E-bus, we have a program e.g. concerning the Luxtorpeda rolling stock. So we have a lot of these actions. We are planning changes in the area of innovation law. Since 1 January there has been a small act on innovation, we are preparing the second so-called. a large bill, e.g. We want to increase the benefits for research and development to 10%. We are successfully implementing the program for start-ups.Start in Poland. We want Poland to be established [[♪ The bell ♪]] approx. 1.5 thousand. companies. In the budget we have almost PLN 3 billion. This is one of the biggest programs in this part of Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u392	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development Jerzy Kwieciński: I'm almost done. And... [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. There are 46 ladies and gentlemen on the list. Therefore, I have to set the question time for 1 minute, because otherwise most of you would not be able to speak. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz is the first to speak. I'll keep you informed that I'll keep time disciplined.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am very pleased with today's debate and I am immediately approaching the question. What are the measures taken by the government to eliminate the use of junk mainly for young people and to protect further generations of young people from economic emigration or from pushing them into trash employment? And my second question. Are changes envisaged in the Employment Act and the labour market institutions, which will finally force district labour offices to carry out professional rehabilitation? She's been in the bill for a very long time, but so far, no county offices have done this job. Will it finally be imposed on the county offices and will it be enforced effectively? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u394	Thank you very much. Ms Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, the Civic Platform Club, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The labour market has been in decline for some time. This trend was launched in 2014. It helped the economy, which unfortunately slows down, and labour market reforms implemented in the previous term of the Sejm. However, the signs of slowing economic dynamics and hindering investment are worrying, which, together with the weak use of structural funds, could result in a deterioration in the labour market. What we managed to rebuild after the first crisis could be lost by the PiS, maybe not yet in 2017, but in the following years. What does the government intend to do, what ideas does it have to sustain the prosperity of the labour market launched by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL? The idea of centralising labour offices does not seem to be a good idea. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a recovery from the situation before 1999. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u396	The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have a question for Mr Jerzy Kwieciński from the Ministry of Development. Do we have an estimate in the ministry that would show in the case of investments, if we have EU subsidies, our grants, government grants, internal grants, how much of one dollar goes back to Western companies? Are we aware of how strong our construction companies are, how strong are the companies that operate telecommunications, ICT infrastructure? So a specific, short question: Do we have an calculation in which part of one zloty the grants are used by Polish companies and in which part - with western capital? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u398	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u399	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that you are drawing from the achievements of your predecessors, which is an example of the program "Milch" which has been operating for 7 years, although Poles probably expect more from the rulers than just adding a plush to the name of the program. You're focusing on the past. But I'm interested in the future. Mr. Minister mentioned the 500+ programme, so I would like to ask: will you support the request of the Polish People's Party to introduce in the 500+ program the principle of zloty for zloty, in accordance with the judgment of the NSA, which has recently occurred in Gdańsk? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u400	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u401	Last year, the Supreme Audit Chamber concluded its audit on support for innovative entrepreneurs in 2013 and 2016. It was, among other things. about the effectiveness of this support and the functioning of innovation centres. The results of the audit show that quite large public funds, which have been distributed, have developed modern technical infrastructure in innovation centres, e.g. in the form of technological parks or numerous laboratories at universities, however, they did not produce clear results in the form of significantly increasing the innovation of the Polish economy by implementing innovative products or services. One of the barriers, as it turns out, is that the economic potential of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is too low because the cost of implementing innovative solutions is very high. Does the Ministry therefore consider State aid in this area under this new strategy, e.g. by using public procurement to a greater extent than before, which would enable such small companies to increase their activity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's just an improvement...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u402	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u403	...interest? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u404	The question is asked by Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The lowest unemployment rate in the quarter of a century and the prospect of employment growth show a false picture of the Polish labour market. The current condition causes euphoria, but when we look into the future, we see a black script. The job supply is dropping at a rate of about 50,000. people per year and the dynamics of this decline will grow. Currently 45% employers declare difficulties in recruiting workers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is talk of an improved situation in the labour market, but in turn the tendency of workers to change jobs is increasing. Our...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u406	Thank you very much, Member. [[But she had a shorter time, half a minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u407	But...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u408	The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party. [[Something about time, Marshal, was wrong.]] What do you mean, it's not like that? Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes, there was something over time.]] I'm sorry. Finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u409	There is talk of an improved situation in the labour market, but in turn the tendency of workers to change jobs is increasing. Our labour market is moving clearly towards the labour market, where workers decide on employment conditions and change offers. The increasing number of job vacancies translates into rising wage pressures and this trend towards higher wages is persistent as there is a shortage of workers. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u410	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u411	Like the Ministry...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u412	I'm sure time has been exhausted this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u413	...will he deal with this problem? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u414	The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! I am taking the floor in the debate. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Minister! High Izbo! You added a plus to the little guy, and the new program came out of it. You give unemployment a negative, and I think a new program will come out of it. But yes, Minister - you know perfectly well - it was not because unemployment started to decrease much earlier, one-digit it was already at the end of that term, for Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. You just have to admit it, show us how beautiful it was for us, because it's a constant job. As we hear, because of the 500+ program, a number of people have become unemployed. How does this affect unemployment, and is the government going to do something here? For there is a certain imperfection. It worries that our GDP is falling, but the problem is different at the moment. Does the government have any idea because a number of employers are already signaling the lack of people to work? It's not that a miracle has happened at the moment, it's just that we're running out of hands in many companies, many entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be any action here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u416	Thank you very much. The question is raised by Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After difficult times, thanks to the hard work of the current government, the labour market in Poland is experiencing real growth. The unemployment rate in Poland has been the lowest in 25 years, and our country is in the top European countries with the lowest unemployment - we are in seventh place. In order to improve the standard of life of Poles, Law and Justice introduces new regulations. First of all, since this year, we have seen a significant increase in wages, both hourly rates for persons working on certain contract orders and for the provision of services as well as the amount of minimum remuneration. I have a question for the ministers: Are there plans to support employers who create new jobs? Will the Ministry encourage Polish companies to introduce organisational innovations related to human resources management? Does the government plan to implement new or update current innovation laws? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u418	Thank you very much. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, speaks. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to draw attention to the fact that the decline in unemployment in our country did not start when the elections were won by Law and Justice. This trend has continued in our country since 2013 and is linked to good decisions already made and many other factors. Poland was simply not in ruins when it was taken over by PiS. She had the potential for the government to now distribute money for the fulfilment of their electoral promises. But it's an extremely dangerous, short-sighted policy. During good times, we need to invest in development, in the future of our children and grandchildren, not in distribution. Minister! Many registered unemployed people are only on paper. It's more profitable to work in black and get benefits. So I have a question: What instruments will be introduced into the labour market [[♪ The bell ♪]] or how will they be modified, both on the side of employers and unemployed people, in order to combat long-term unemployment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u420	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! Very positive trends in the labour market are undeniable. However, it is a matter of concern there are still very large differences in economic development between the various regions of Poland. The Świętokrzyskie voivodship is an example of such a region that is separated from the most developed voivodships. The economic situation of this region results, among others. that young educated people leave the voivodship and do not want to go back there anymore. The key to stopping this phenomenon is among others. the creation of new and better paid jobs. Local authorities are also involved in their creation, among others. the municipality of Kurów, which is trying to prepare investment areas. I have a question: What measures does the Ministry intend to take to reduce existing disparities between regions? Are there any special solutions planned for Świętokrzyskie voivodship? What kind of support can the municipality count on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The chicken who asked for help from the Ministry of Development? The last one...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u422	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u423	... I ask for an answer in writing and I will give the materials to the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u424	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With unemployment falling, it is important to individualise the approach to the unemployed. KPMG's research on youth activation indicates the need for a new fit for individual needs of the tools offered. Training profile, targeted traineeships - this requires a reduction in the number of unemployed per PUP employee. Is the Ministry thinking of increasing the number of PUP advisors? Individualisation is also about taking care of the long-term unemployed. The decline in this group is too small, public works or intervention tools do not serve to achieve long-term work. These people require work with psychologists, special workshops, a tool for them to get out of unemployment. Individualisation also applies to regions. The unemployment rate in Poland - 8,7, in Wielkopolska - 5, but in Konin County - 13,5. Is the government thinking about special programmes for regions where unemployment is permanently highest? Finally, the welcome package - I already asked you about it, but I did not get an answer - for those returning from abroad. Are they coming back? Did the government invite you back, [[♪ The bell ♪]] helping them to find their way into the labour market? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u426	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u427	Respected Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The Ministry of National Education has prepared a good change in the vocational training system, which aims to promote a dual education system that meets the needs of the economy. Cooperation with companies in the economic environment of the school is an important element. One form of such cooperation should be the organisation of practical activities for pupils at employers' level so that learning is carried out in real working conditions using modern technologies. The Ministry of National Education intends to intensify cooperation at systemic level with professional organisations, employers and associations and economic self-government. It is important to create conditions [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are conducive to sufficient training conditions for the pupil.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u428	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u429	I have now... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u430	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u431	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Positive labour market trends in Silesia, 2016: job losses in KWK Anna - 1300 jobs, job losses of 1600 jobs in KWK Jas-Mos, job losses of 2000 jobs in KWK Makoszowy, job losses of 2100 jobs in KWK Krupiński. Year 2017: job losses in KWK Redutowy, KWK Śląsk, KWK Wujek, KWK Room. In 2017 PLN 2105 million allocated to the decommissioning of new jobs. Generally in mining according to the plan prepared by Law and Justice 8 billion PLN for job losses. Ministers, I wanted to ask how much money and what programmes you have prepared as a plan for Silesia to create new jobs [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the alternative? I remind you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u432	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u433	...that to one place of work eliminated in mining disappears from the surroundings...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u434	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u435	...from four to five jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u436	The question is asked by Jerzy Gosiewiski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u437	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, According to the 2016 survey, in Warmia-Mazury voivodship unemployment is lower than in 2015, but the unemployment rate is still the largest in Poland. The situation is particularly bad in the north-eastern part of the voivodship, in the districts of Kętrzyn, Węgorzewski, Mrągowski, Piski, Elbląskie and Bartoszycki. This is where unemployment is between 20% and 20%. a 27% , which is largely due to various orders and prohibitions relating to nature conservation. They are with us, but also throughout the country municipalities, where the possibility of developing their farms is completely limited to residents, because practically their entire territory is classified into one of the existing forms of protection. The area of all protected areas in Warmia and Mazury is over 56%. Minister, what is the government planning to do to give Warmia and Mazury a chance for sustainable development? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the government going to review...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u438	Thank you very much. The question you are asking is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u439	...necessary environmental constraints in development...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u440	... Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u441	...a significant part of our region, but also...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u442	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u443	...many municipalities all over the country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u444	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! As a result of the ageing population, almost one million people of working age have died in Poland since 2010. This economic disadvantage is exacerbated by the still low female participation rate, which is 61.4%. This means that statistically four out of ten Poles of working age do not work and are not looking for a job. According to a recent study of the economic activity of the population carried out by the CSO, this may also be influenced by the government's 500+ programme, because women do not work for family reasons, connected with running the house, and this level is increasing, and this is at a record rate. From September to March 2016, as many as 150 000 have indicated this reason for not taking up employment. Women. Recently, such a high level of growth has been recorded in 2008. Question: "What instruments has the PiS government introduced and intends to introduce for both women in Poland and employers who will employ them in order to stimulate the growth of women's activity, and is it true that you intend to nationalise employment offices and take them away from local governments?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u446	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u447	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! The lowest in history, 8% unemployment is not only excellent information, but also a measurable effect of the law and justice government's work. However, there are places on the map of our country where unemployment is higher. This is the case, for example. in Włocławek, where unemployment is 16% , and in the district of Włocławski - over 21%. The concern of the Government of Law and Justice is to balance the development of the country and to help the most demanding centres, hence my questions: Is the creation of a labour market support mechanism for cities and districts where unemployment is still high, two-digit, and is the structure of unemployment changing in connection with the work of the Government of Law and Justice on sustainable development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u448	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u449	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have known for several years that unemployment is falling and the labour market is approaching. Every economist, and especially those responsible for social and economic policy of the state, should put in place appropriate activation mechanisms. I am interested in mechanisms to activate young women returning to the market after maternity leave, because it is they who have the biggest problem just back to work. I am not talking about mechanisms for forcing employers by the Labour Code with appropriate records, imposing further obligations, but about building a system of incentives and some kind of support on the side of both employers and women. What concrete actions do you do to make a pregnant woman feel safe and, on the other hand, that the employer does not treat such a person as a burden on the company? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u450	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Raising the level of innovation in the economy is a key objective of our country's development policy and a guarantee of economic development. This is part of the Intelligent Development programme, which is aimed primarily at supporting innovation and research, as well as strengthening cooperation between science and the economy, resulting in increased competitiveness and innovation of the Polish economy. Therefore, I have a question: What is the current situation of cooperation between business, business and the world of science, universities in the field of innovation? I would also like to ask whether efforts are being made and whether further programmes - or other levels - have been created that will strengthen cooperation, joint involvement of the science and business sector in the field of innovation and modern technologies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u452	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u453	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This all sounds beautiful: record low unemployment, increase in minimum wage, higher hourly rate, but why is it that the number of people who simply do not want to take up work is still decreasing, but rather that they do not want to take up work, and these are not reasons for health or retirement age? There are already more than 2 million of these people in Poland. What measures does the government intend to take to effectively encourage this group of Poles to work? After all, these people will one day be without benefits and still be on the pot of the state. And my second question concerns the citizens of Ukraine. It's pretty massive influx into our country, and there's thousands of people on the job register. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the government have knowledge of how many Ukrainians are currently legally employed in Poland, which regions are most attractive to them and what kind of work do they do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u454	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Nobletka, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! 1 January 2017 came into force the first simplifications of the package of 100 changes for companies prepared by Law and Justice. In addition to the changes introduced to reduce excessive financial burdens and bureaucratic effective forms of aid to entrepreneurs, special economic zones are also important. In many counties, as in the county of Thought, there are investment areas covered by this status. Investment outlays in zones reached a total of about PLN 120 billion, local municipalities gained money thanks to the sale and taxation of real estate, employment in companies in zones reduced local unemployment. Minister, how did government action by extending the borders of special economic zones translate into an increase in the number of jobs created? And second question. An important information not only for the municipality of Myślenice, from which I come, and its inhabitants is also whether the Ministry of Development provides for further expansion of existing special economic zones and the creation of new investment zones in 2017. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u456	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u457	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Recordless low unemployment, higher wages are the joy of workers, trade unions and minister... [[Voice from the hall: Finally I see a smile.]] ...family and social policy, but it's a headache for employers and entrepreneurs. The job supply is dropping at a rate of 50,000. every year, and the dynamics of this pace will continue to increase. It's almost half now, because 45%. Polish employers report difficulties in acquiring employees. This is much more than the EU average. So far, this gap has been filled by Ukrainians, because in the last two years the number of Eastern workers has tripled and is 1.2 million. The wages wouldn't grow like this either, if it weren't for the Ukrainians, i.e. They'd grow even more if they weren't Ukrainians. If this does not go hand in hand with productivity and GDP growth, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not good. You're aware of that. What action has the government taken to keep up with the labour market and to make the economy grow...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u458	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Katarzyna Czochar...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u459	...in an innovative way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u460	...law and justice club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Dear Izbo! The government of PSL and PO introduced a model according to which in Poland the pole of development was large urban agglomerations, while the main problem of regional development was rural areas. Unfortunately, by wrong development policy, many Polish cities and rural areas found themselves in a kind of luce, which was created by not investing on many levels, i.e. investment and renovation, in the areas of roads, municipal economy, etc. Unfortunately, many regions have become an area of external penetration and dominated development. As an example of this, I will give you a part of the Western Opole, which has been described as the crescent of poverty, [[♪ The bell ♪]] including the districts Namysłowski, Brzeski, Nyski, Prudnicki, Głubczycki and Kielborski...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u462	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mrs Katarzyna...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u463	...where unemployment reaches around 14%. Is the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u464	Excuse me, Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u465	I am sorry, Commissioner, Mr Marshal's equal treatment is about to begin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u466	Life, life. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u467	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We are delighted to see an increase in the average wage. We're talking about the fight against unemployment, but it's now, ladies and gentlemen, not these days. We used to talk about having a huge demographic problem with the lack of hands to work. [[He's here, and they're fighting unemployment.]] In fact, we already see it, and in some areas we feel it dramatically. We're talking about this salary increase, and I have a question, ladies and gentlemen. Today, Minister, we have no increase in salaries for highly educated medical personnel. We continue to record the huge flow of young doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and all those who operate in the health system, abroad, to countries where they can make better money. And here we have another problem, how to act so that the wages of these people are worthy to attract them to work in Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because this niche won't be able to be filled with anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u468	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am addressing the Minister of Development here. High Izbo! In Poland there are about 3 million natural persons conducting business activity, over 300,000. commercial companies, there are 10,000. Co-operatives. In my hometown, the 50-thousand-dollar Old Garden of Gdansk operates 2500 entrepreneurs, with more than a hundred contacts. Minister, all these entrepreneurs have been waiting for years to change their regulations, for deregulation laws. They have enough laconic messages about commitments to systematically reduce labour costs, to facilitate the resolution of disputes between entrepreneurs, to reduce bureaucracy, to simplify taxes. The January deregulation law signed by President Andrzej Duda is very expected by all these entrepreneurs. Minister, would you please give us a closer look at the key principles of this bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the president recently signed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u470	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u471	In addition to the deregulation law, does the government intend to make other changes to the law in order to facilitate the functioning of businesses? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u472	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u473	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to ask you a few questions about the plans of the Ministry in connection with these actions, which are included in the plan for responsible development. Namely, it is indicated that the employment rate should be 71% by 2030. However, there are three factors which may be barriers to achieving this: firstly, the excessive increase in the minimum wage, secondly, social transfers which are not dependent on taking up work, thirdly, the reduction in the retirement age. After all, these are exactly the actions that are being taken by the Law and Justice Government, so they contradict what is set out in the strategy for responsible development. That's the first question. Second question. The strategy involves making the Polish economy independent of foreign capital, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2015 in 26 thousand. The entities worked 1800 thousand. employees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a very large number and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u474	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u475	...these are those who act positively on the economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u476	The question is asked by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u477	How? does this apply to actions that are included in the strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u478	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! From 1 January 2017, a minimum hourly rate of 13 PLN shall apply to contracts-orders. Even before the law came into force, which removed pathology in salaries for this type of work, some employers protested loudly, refusing to share this proverbial carrot. Recently, I have been informed that not only in small towns, but also in large agglomerations it is proposed to work a much lower amount, 8 and 10 PLN per hour, in such contracts. Does the Ministry have any information on this? Is the Act implementing the minimum hourly rate for work monitored? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u480	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Szymańska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Although I did not date my previous speaker, I also have a question about the lowest salaries that have been in force since January this year. The question also concerns labour market monitoring. Is there information on the response of employers to increased labour costs? Is it as expected by our opponents that job layoffs are followed and the gray area in employment is growing, or on the contrary, as the lowest wages increase, the wages of those already earning more and the labour market begins to evolve instead of the employer's market, as it has been so far? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u482	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Ryczaltowy ZUS is the biggest killer of jobs in Poland. The tailor, who keeps up with the tailor's amendments and who receives 1000 PLN per month for this, is unable to pay 1200 PLN of ZUS contributions. The Parliamentary Team for Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism has prepared the principles of a law reducing the contribution for such entrepreneurs. Prime Minister Morawiecki joined this project in his plan, and the Ministry is working on the bill. I have a question for the Minister when the bill goes to the Sejm because it is a very important problem for many Poles. This change will also make it possible to return from the UK, as the opposition Members have asked here, because the establishment of the company will involve much less risk, with much more ease it will be possible [[♪ The bell ♪]] Her This is why this proposal needs to be adopted as a matter of urgency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u484	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Last year, the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development started with the first instrument under the government's "Start in Poland" programme. The aim of the pilot competition is to combine the potential of beginner creative entrepreneurs with infrastructure, experience and resources of large corporations, including companies of the Treasury. The piloting process was to involve accelerators to be selected by the State Agency for Enterprise Development in the competition from 15 July to 15 September of the previous year. Gentlemen of Ministers! Due to the fact that 10 industry accelerators were planned to be set up in 2017, it was planned that within the framework of [[♪ The bell ♪]] The next 7 years in Poland are to be created... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u486	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Today we are discussing the situation on the labour market and it is once again coming to our conclusion that we have the best situation since the beginning of the transition and this situation is still improving, which the previously ruling coalition of PO and PSL does not want to notice. It is certainly positive that external factors have a positive impact on this situation, but without properly targeted government action it would not have been so good. And these actions include creating the right business conditions, improving business conditions. I am referring to the activities of the deputy prime minister Mateusz Morawiecki, including a package of 100 changes for companies, but also the activities of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which by appropriate regulations in the disposal of the Labour Fund directed to county labour offices results in better and more effective spending of funds for activation of unemployed people. Here I would like to talk about improving the quality of spending under the National Training Fund addressed to employers in order to finance the training of workers. This prevents possible redundancies and, with rapidly changing labour market requirements requiring continuous workers to be overqualified or qualified, such aid [[♪ The bell ♪]] For employers, it is actually a help to workers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u488	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Wiesław Krajewski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! There is no doubt that statistics on the lowest unemployment rate are enjoyable, but growth and economic growth are not matched equally throughout our country. I am a Member from the Tarnów region, from the eastern part of the Lesser Poland voivodship. Since the 1998 administrative reform, when Tarnów ceased to be a voivodship city, the Tarnowski region has been experiencing economic difficulties, and thus we also have a high unemployment rate and huge labour migration. I would therefore like to ask, as a Member of the Tarnów Region, the question: What are the priority actions envisaged by the government in the Responsible Development Strategy, which will allow for the even development of the regions in Poland, with particular emphasis on the Tarnów region. In this respect, the Tarnów region needs state aid, the Polish government and the Ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u490	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The country-wide special economic zones are a good response from the government and local governments to the needs of entrepreneurs and investors. They allow economic activities to be carried out under preferential conditions. Providing tax relief and the fact that an investor can start operating on prepared and armed terrain are excellent incentives for the creation of many new businesses. Such activities bring with them many other positive aspects, including, among others, accelerate the economic development of individual regions of Poland, significantly reduce unemployment, allow the use of modern technological solutions or increase the competitiveness of our market. There are already at least a dozen economic zones in Podkarpacie, including Europark Mielec, special economic zones in Tarnobrzeg or Rzeszów, which help entrepreneurs and strengthen the labour market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I'm asking you a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u492	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u493	... Minister Jerzy Kwieciński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u494	The question is asked by Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u495	Does your resort plan to create further economic zones in Rzeszów and Podkarpacie? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u496	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I think that today we would not be talking about the effects of the rule of law and justice, the historically lowest unemployment and the increase in wages, if not for the excellent cooperation of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and at the moment the superminister, namely the Ministry of Development and Finance, so that, ministers, for you and for your bosses, for Minister Rafalski, for Prime Minister Morawiecki, great thanks and congratulations. I am saying this because it is very often difficult to coordinate work which, on the one hand, is an activity aimed at workers, that is, expanding workers' rights, for which the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is responsible, but on the other hand it must also be an activity aimed at entrepreneurs, to those who create jobs, and for this is the department of development. It does this perfectly, among others. through legal facilitation, but also financial facilitation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Historically, the lowest unemployment rate in the country is 8.3%.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u497	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u498	In the Stalvowolski district it is 7.1% We haven't had that kind of unemployment in years...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u499	Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Club of Law and Justice, now has a voice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u500	...so that once again, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! For several years now, employment agencies have been operating under the Labour Market Act, both domestic and foreign. They probably did a lot of good work, participated together with some voivodship labour offices in pilot projects and certainly marked their presence very clearly. But there have also been accidents such as an outsourcing scandal with a few hundred entrepreneurs who have been injured and with some stalemate situation. The question is whether an analysis of the functioning of these employment agencies is being carried out and whether any changes in legal legitimacy, in the rules of their functioning, are envisaged. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u502	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u503	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the long-awaited improvement in the labour market, where the unemployment rate has reached the lowest level from a quarter of a century and is about 8%, should be welcomed and welcomed. and the employee market has become a fact. It also welcomes the fact that demand for an employee tends to increase and there is no indication that such a situation will change. But this new reality can cause problems for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who cannot afford to compete for workers with large entrepreneurs, as well as those operating in economic zones offering higher wages and labour packages. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether the government has any proposals for these entrepreneurs to ensure their further development and functioning in a new reality. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u504	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Stefan Strzałkowski, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy, either. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice. The Member is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to talk about a real legacy after 8-year-old coalition governments of the Civic Platform and PSL, so I would like to talk about one of the scandals, I would like to talk about the outsourcing affair. This has already been mentioned today, but I wanted to be more specific about it because it is a big problem. I know that now our government, that the ZUS has now stopped execution, but only to those entrepreneurs who have been deceived. But this problem is very big because he's still unsolved. If this problem is not solved, not only a few hundred entrepreneurs will go bankrupt, it can disappear from the labour market, but most of all will be lost many, many jobs. And that's why I would ask you to somehow step up this effort to explain this affair and at the same time punish it, find it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who is guilty of these frauds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u506	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck, club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Jan Mosiński, Club Law and Justice. There isn't any either. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice. There isn't. Great. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Law and Justice. Why don't we just get to the answer? Is it? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Please. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Good. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Exactly. Mr Adam Oldakowski. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak. [[I'm here.]] It is, it is. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, sir. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe not the last.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! One of the most important dilemmas in measuring unemployment is the problem of youth unemployment. Once the CSO measured it to the age of 25, now to the age of 30. I would like to point out that no matter how long since the unemployment and transformation measurements, there have always been about twice as many as the average unemployed. If we look at the past, we will see that the apogee was 2003, notabene on the eve of the entry into the Union, when youth unemployment to the age of 25 was 45%. Currently, although average unemployment in Poland is 8.3%, the unemployed among young people up to 30 years of age is about 15% . Is the government going to dedicate some special program to this group of people to theirs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] To stay in the country and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u508	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u509	...to ensure a better start in life? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u510	Mr Wojciech Zubowski has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u511	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Listening to today's statements by parliamentarians, it is impossible to ignore the information about a significant improvement in the labour market situation compared to data from a few years ago. However, maintaining such good indicators will require decisive action by the ministries and coordinated government policy at the interface between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Action already taken to encourage entrepreneurs to invest in innovation, to introduce package facilitations for companies in both fiscal policy and legislation itself, to attract investors interested in creating jobs for professionals who do not consider our labour market as a source of cheap labour is just the beginning of the road, and some of the effects of the actions already started will have to wait for at least a few years. I mean, for example, the reform of vocational education. We are still waiting for the introduction of further parts of the package of changes, a set of 100 facilitations for companies of the Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki. It is also a big challenge to encourage those compatriots who have gone abroad in search of work in the last dozen years to return to Poland. During this time, it will also be necessary to monitor constantly the changes that are taking place, because unlike the previous ones, we will adapt actions to the needs of the labour market and the economy, not the other way around. I would like to thank you for the explanations and announcements that have been given regarding further programme work and for the extension and clarification of economic policy measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u512	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask the ministers to speak. First the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u513	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all your questions. Of course, there were a lot of these questions, but they can be grouped according to such several types. I think I'll start with that general statement. It's hard to be sad about low unemployment. If the opposition expects us to cry that it's the lowest unemployment in 25 years, then it's wrong. We're happy, and I think it's a shared joy for all of us, [[Applause]] that we have low unemployment. The second point is what Mr Weber said. Here we are together, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Development. After all, jobs are created by entrepreneurs, not labour offices. Work offices are a supporting element, helping those who have the most difficult situation, helping to create jobs, but not creating jobs. And this is the set of forces that has been presented here today, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of the Family, will give good results for the future, this shows where we are going. It's a pay issue. We made a very good move to ensure at least a minimum hourly wage of 13 PLN gross. This is not money which, I would say, is unacceptable to employers and not acceptable to employers for all reasons the rates which were proposed by employers, at the level of PLN 3, 4 per hour. Absolutely we can't agree to this, we didn't agree, which is why this rate is 13 zlotys. There are, of course, attempts to avoid this, but that is why there is a State Labour Inspection, and that is why checks will also be carried out so that dishonest employers - I say again: dishonest employers - in such situations they have eliminated from the labour market, because the employer who cheats here is also dishonest towards his colleague, because this is unfair competition. As far as the issue of education is concerned, because such a question has been raised, of course we are very much counting on the rebuilt sector education, i.e. industry schools, which will be created. Combining them with business is a very good solution also for the labour market, so that we do not educate future potential unemployed people. And that's the goal we're setting ourselves. If it works, it'll be a big plus. Today it makes no sense that we spend huge money on training under the Labour Fund for those graduates who graduate from school. It is better to prepare them there, so that the employer already has a qualified potential employee, rather than again disturbing them and paying big money for it. There was a question about mining. As far as mining is concerned, no one in the mining industry is left without state aid. There are cover packages, there are holidays, and anyone who has not decided to leave or voluntary departure has been offered a job in other mines. Reform is difficult, but that's what reform is for. this restructuring programme so that we can provide work also for those who do not find this work in a given mine. There was an issue raised in relation to the employment of foreigners. There was often an example of Ukrainian citizens here. In fact, this growth is significant. It is a bit confusing that the number of statements or the number of Ukrainian citizens arriving for a short period of work in Poland is actually over a million, but the number of people is smaller. We estimate about 800,000. people work in Poland. Some people are on employment contracts, some are on contract contracts, and there are a large number of employees on contract for work. We want to make such changes - and this is what we are working on, among others. Minister Kwieciński's team - to try to recruit workers among third-country nationals, i.e. we think of Ukrainian citizens, for longer periods, for permanent stays, so that we can associate them with our country in the sense that where we need qualified workers, and we do not have them on our side so that we can also help in this direction. As far as the problem with doctors is concerned, we spend over PLN 1 billion on young doctors from the Labour Fund. The problem is different, that unfortunately with this pay gap young doctors end up in Poland, finish their internships and go abroad. And here we need to find other solutions. There was also a question about the employment agency. The Council of Ministers adopted amendments to the Act on Temporary Workers concerning Labour. We want to seal this system in some way, and you have also given examples here that labour agencies were created and that workers were deceived. We want this system to be tighter. Regional programmes. Of course, they are, but we want to make changes to the Promotion Act or to create a new law, including a diverse market in terms of unemployment, to create the possibility of impact also through a ministerial or government party. Today in this arrangement, what is it like, where labour offices are subordinated to local government, we do not have that possibility. If someone is talking about Wielkopolska, Poznan - unemployment is the lowest in the country, in another county unemployment is at a level of several percent. There are no instruments that can somehow be improved, changed. Everyone is building their own policies, which unfortunately in many cases is unfavourable. We will try to go in this direction so that where there are areas where there is high unemployment, there are opportunities for support. Time's running out. I also want to pay my time to the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u514	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jerzy Kwieciński will now speak at the Ministry of Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to say that not only is the situation on the labour market unique and not only is unemployment, which we have, but the standard of living in Poland is definitely improving. In the past year, we moved from 43rd to 30th place in the quality of life level according to Eurostat. We're e.g. in front of the Italians. As for the business environment in the World Bank ranking in Doing Business, we moved from 25th to 24th place. According to Eurostat, we are in 12th place in Europe as regards the level of satisfaction in life, in front of Germany and Great Britain, which is also important for the labour market. Poles don't want to go abroad so much anymore. Within 1 year, the number of Poles who said it was better to stay in the country than to leave has decreased by half. All this proves the created new conditions, increasingly better conditions on the labour market for Poles. I mentioned the zones earlier. Finally, Polish companies began investing in zones. As I mentioned, more than half of the new investments last year - over 160 were investments by Polish companies. We're changing the environment to make it more company-friendly. I was talking about a constitution for business, also about a package of 100 changes, 30 of these changes have come into force since 1 January. The next three laws we have at the moment in the Sejm, including a very important amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure, which will give very big, very serious changes. The assumptions for these legal changes that we want to introduce for entrepreneurs are very important and related to the principles of economic freedom, namely: what is not prohibited is allowed, and also, what is critical for entrepreneurs, the principle of presumption of honesty of entrepreneurs, similar to the principle in criminal law. Not only do we have very good data in terms of unemployment, but optimism is increasing in terms of doing business in the country. PMI indicators are at a record high level. Consumer optimism is also growing. We have driven away European funds. In the signed contracts at the end of last year we have almost PLN 120 billion. This will be used primarily by Polish companies, although the growing Polish economy will also cause other Member States of the European Union to benefit from it as well. Orders are growing in companies, and we believe, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that it will be a good year for the Polish economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u516	Thank you. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The fall in unemployment in Poland to the lowest level for 25 years is a reason to be satisfied. At the end of January 2017, the level of unemployment in Poland was not much more than 8%, but the level of unemployment varies from one voivodeship to another. Lowest unemployment occurs in Wielkopolska Voivodship (5% ), and the highest in Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship (13.9% ). In Podkarpackie Voivodship, unemployment at the end of 2016 was 11.6%. Despite a noticeable drop in unemployment at national level, the level of unemployment in Podkarpacie has not changed significantly. The occupational situation of young people up to the age of 30 is particularly difficult. A third of these people don't work. The very difficult employment situation concerns the inhabitants of the Podkarpackie villages. In view of this situation in some regions, does the government envisage introducing special vocational activation programmes in the highest unemployment regions, including Podkarpacie?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u518	I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 28 hours 20 min 29]] We can shorten the break a little bit. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register (Print No. 1230). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The primary objective of the bill submitted is to strengthen the safety of legal trading. This is to be done by resigning from the ordinary electronic signature when setting up limited liability companies in S-24 mode. As a consequence, the signing of the agreement of the company z o.o. it will be possible to apply for the entry of such a company in the National Court Register, as in the case of other companies incorporated in this procedure, only by means of a qualified electronic signature or a signature confirmed by a trusted profile of ePUAP. It should be recalled that it is possible to establish a company with an o.o. using a standard made available in the ICT system, so-called the S-24 mode, and the application for the signature of the contract and the application for entry in the National Court Register of Ordinary Electronic Signature already exists from 1 January 2012. It was introduced to encourage and facilitate business activity in the most popular of commercial companies. As a matter of principle, this solution proved to be a success. From the beginning, from the start of the IT system until the end of 2016, 62 400 companies from O.O. were registered in the National Court Register, 452 public companies and 1781 S-24 limited companies. Unfortunately, in 2016 there were signals about cases of abuse involving the unauthorised use of personal data of other persons to establish a company from o.o. in S-24 mode. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! It is worth noting that this solution, which we propose, is currently... Excuse me, I have to find the document. Sorry about the mix-up. From the information we have, which probably does not give a complete picture of the situation, it appears that the scale of the phenomenon, taking into account the number of all companies from the o.o. registered in S-24 mode in the last 5 years, is not significant. However, the fact is that more than 40 cases of fraud reports related to the unauthorised use of other people's data have been identified to establish the company. in S-24 mode. Such situations may arise because the solution in question concerning the use of the ordinary electronic signature does not give 100% certainty that the person submitting the electronic signature under contract is indeed the person who has been designated as having an agreement with the company. The technical and information system in which the activities related to the establishment of the company are carried out shall only verify the compatibility of the PESEL number indicated by the user with the data contained in the PESEL register. Therefore, the government considered that priority should be given to the safety of trading and that solutions that could lead to abuse should be abandoned. Each such case is a risk to the certainty of trading and causes tangible problems for the victims, which in turn obliges the legislator to take action to eliminate the causes of such a situation. Therefore, the proposed act proposes to withdraw from the ordinary electronic signature when setting up a company with o.o. in S-24 mode and allowing the use of a qualified electronic signature or signature validated by a trusted ePUAP profile in this respect. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the withdrawal from the use of an ordinary electronic signature to establish a company from o.o. In the S-24 system, it should not constitute a significant obstacle to the taking up and pursuit of the business in this form, as it should be borne in mind that the availability of a qualified electronic signature is currently incomparably greater than at the time of the introduction of the S-24 mode, i.e., in 2012, and the cost of obtaining such a signature is not significant - it is about 300 PLN during the 2-year period of validity. A free signature confirmed by ePUAP's trusted profile is much more widespread, and what is important, the Trust Services and Electronic Identification Act of 5 September 2016 provides for an extension of acceptable identification methods for obtaining a trusted ePUAP profile, i.e. the possibility of using electronic identification means used to authenticate banks' IT systems for this purpose. This will make getting this profile even easier than it is so far. As the first transaction system, PKO BP, then Millennium and ING Bank Śląski made available, and further banks are working on the implementation of this option. Therefore, it can be assumed that despite the withdrawal from the ordinary electronic signature when the company was bound by o.o. In the S-24 system, the interested parties will continue to be able to use this system without obstacles, to establish a company with o.o. using a qualified electronic signature or signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile. It is also worth noting that: already all other activities undertaken in the IT system concerning the company z o.o. the S-24 system requires the use of a qualified electronic signature or ePUAP, in the case of other companies which may be established under S-24, including a public limited company, all activities, including the company's contract, undertaken in the electronic system, require a qualified electronic signature or ePUAP. The proposed waiver of the use of an ordinary electronic signature when the company was established with o.o. In S-24 mode it is logically integrated into the existing system and ensures consistency of the applicable regulations. In order to achieve this objective, it is therefore necessary to amend three laws, namely the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the National Court Register Act to the extent indicated in the governmental submission. I ask the High House to support this project. He seems uncontroversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u520	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position towards the government draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register together with the draft implementing act, print no. 1230. We have to agree - and we agree - with the aim that the Council of Ministers had in preparing this project. This is to increase the safety of legal trading by excluding the possibility of using the so-called. ordinary electronic signature when setting up companies with o.o. in S-24 mode. Therefore, as indicated by the applicant, to sign the agreement of the company z o.o. only a qualified electronic signature and a signature confirmed by a trusted profile of ePUAP will be used in this procedure and to submit an application for the inclusion of such a company in the National Court Register. The proposed amendment has been linked to the possibility of setting up a company from o.o. since the beginning of 2012. using the standard made available in the electronic system and the application to sign the contract and to submit an application for entry in the National Court Register so-called. a simple electronic signature. Statistics on the establishment of companies in this mode, they show that this solution was very popular. In 2015, more than 47% of the companies were founded using this procedure. Nearly 80% of them used the usual electronic signature. At the same time, however, there have been increasing signs of abuse in recent months. A simplified form of folding so-called. The mere electronic signature does not provide certainty that the signatory to the contract is a person designated as having an agreement with the company. The electronic system, as the Council of Ministers rightly points out in the explanatory memorandum, only checks the compatibility of the PESEL number indicated by the signatory with the PESEL register. The Law and Justice Club agrees with the government's assessment that it is necessary to give priority to the safety of legal trading and to eliminate the solution that leads to such abuses. As a result, we assume that, as is the case in the case of the establishment of a public and limited partnership in the S-24 system, it should be possible to use only a qualified electronic signature or a signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile, either for changes to the contract and other activities relating to the S-24 company. It is worth mentioning that both of these opportunities are now much more accessible than they were a few years ago. The fact that the proposed direction of change has been consulted with public authorities and with the business community seems to be important. As it seems, the vast majority of them have met with approval. At the same time, it is necessary to agree with the request that further action be carried out in parallel and irrespective of the procedure of this law, including. on improving the ePUAP platform and shortening the waiting period for registration of entities in the National Court Register. The proposed amendment requires the amendment of three laws: the Code of Commercial Companies, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Act on the National Court Register, and the issuing of a new regulation of the Minister of Justice. We consider it sufficient to accept a 30-day vacathio legis. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further work on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u522	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. Are you an MP? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I wanted to present our position on the draft law from print no. 1230. The subject matter of the submitted project is the possibility of establishing a company. using the template made available in the electronic system, defined by agreement as S-24 mode. The achievement of the proposed objectives requires amendments to three legal acts: the Code of Commercial Companies, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on the National Court Register. Possibility to set up a company from o.o. in simplified mode, using the ICT system, it has been in place since 1 January 2012. It is to be welcomed to note the assessments made by the government in the justification for the proposed legislative act relating to changes in Polish law with regard to the model of setting up a company. I quote: "This solution has proved to be a great success: the number of companies with o.o. assumed in the S-24 mode is steadily growing and currently account for almost half of all newly created companies. By the end of 2015, i.e. over the last 4 years, 36 678 companies were established under the above procedure, which represents 47.25% all companies in the o.o. tied at that time in Poland. The current model gives the possibility to establish a company using the model made available in the IT system and to apply for the signature of the company contract and to submit an application for entry in the National Court Register of three forms of signature: a simple electronic signature, the requirements of which are defined in the relevant implementing rules issued by the Minister of Justice, secondly, a qualified electronic signature, known as a secure electronic signature verified by a valid qualified certificate, and, thirdly, using a signature validated by a trusted ePUAP profile. The number of entities involved in this procedure confirms the legislator's expectations of the changes introduced in 2012, which were primarily to stimulate entrepreneurship and facilitate business activity. The proposed act aims to eliminate one of the tools used so far for the creation of the company z o.o. the methods indicated by the simple electronic signature and the safety of legal trading by the designer. From the information submitted, it appears from the justification of this law that this tool abolished by the contested law was used in 80% by the founding companies of the o.o. in the electronics system. The ordinary signature therefore contributed significantly to the success of the solution adopted in 2012. The developers argue that recently there have been signals of abuse involving the unauthorised use of other persons' personal data for the establishment of the company. It is mentioned that this involved 40 cases with more than 36 thousand cases. companies established by this method. The assessment of the company-setting system calls for a solution in which the legislator gives priority to the safety of trading and seeks to eliminate fraud over the availability of an electronic company-setting system. It is therefore proposed that the company in O.O. In the ICT system, it could be connected with a qualified electronic signature and a signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile. It has to be noted that the availability of these tools over the last 5 years is incomparably greater than at the start of the system in 2012, both for qualified electronic signature and for free signature confirmed by trusted ePUAP profile. Thus, enjoying that the changes introduced into Polish law in 2012 were positively assessed, that not everything was done wrong, we are in favour of supporting this bill and passing it on to further parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u524	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u525	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 will support the draft amendment of the Commercial Companies Code Act, the Civil Procedure Code Act and the National Court Register Act. I will not take too long for you, because all three speakers have already told you very thoroughly about the meaning of this change. However, it should be noted that not all support this change. He doesn't support her, for example. The Confederation of Leviathan, claiming, among other things, that it would make it too difficult to register companies. However, giving importance to the safety of economic turnover and the fact that e.g. None of you would suddenly want to be the owner of the company, not knowing that, for obvious reasons, this change should be supported. Nevertheless, Mr. Marshal, on this occasion, with a time limit, I wanted to address your Marshal with a different request. Taking advantage of the opportunity that this is the first reading and the project will go to the committee, I would like to point out that in a permanently incorrect way over a year the draft laws are addressed to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, which is clear from the annex to the resolution of the Polish Parliament of 30 July 1992. The legislative committee is the right committee to proceed with the laws. In this respect, Kukiz15 will in any case object. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u526	Thank you very much. I will pass on this suggestion, but I would like to point out that there is also a Marshal representing the Kukiz club at the Sejm Bureau15. Please, now Mr. Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u527	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the Act amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on the National Court Register. As you said, Minister, the project is not controversial. To start a company with o.o. in S-24 mode, a qualified electronic signature and a signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile can continue to be used. I agree that in order to eliminate these potential abuses or those which, I understand, have already been identified, it is worth taking this novel. I stress that the trusted ePUAP profile is a free profile, so it does not really increase the cost of setting up companies. We recommend adopting these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u528	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u529	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the government draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register, contained in print no. 1230. Since 1 January 2012, it is possible to establish a company with o.o. using a standard made available in the ICT system, i.e. mode S-24, and apply to the signature of the contract and submit an application for entry into the National Court Register for a simple electronic signature. It was introduced to stimulate entrepreneurship and facilitate business activity in this most popular business form among commercial companies. This solution proved to be a great success. Number of companies in O.O. assumed in the S-24 mode is steadily growing and currently account for almost half of all newly created companies. In total, 36 678 companies were established in this mode between January 2012 and November 2015. One of the elements that decided to give entrepreneurs a great interest in using the S-24 mode when setting up the company was a simple solution for users with regard to electronic signature required to sign the contract and submit an application to the KRS. According to estimates, almost 80% users use a simple electronic signature. For such a signature, it is sufficient to establish an account in the electronic system for handling the attachment and other activities concerning the company and to activate the signature in the system for which a relatively limited number of data is required, namely the name, name, PESEL number and address for correspondence. However, in the last few months there have been signals about cases of abuse involving the unauthorised use of personal data of other persons to establish a company from o.o. in S-24 mode. Such situations may arise due to the fact that the application of the ordinary signature in this case does not give a 100% assurance that the person signing the contract is indeed the person who has been designated as having an agreement with the company. The system only checks the compatibility of the user-designated PESEL number with the data contained in the register, and in the case of foreigners who do not have a PESEL number, it is not possible to carry out even such verification. The authors of the project, giving priority to the safety of trading and in order to eliminate solutions that may lead to abuse, propose to withdraw from the ordinary electronic signature when establishing the company. and allow only qualified electronic signature or signature supported by trusted ePUAP profile to be used in this respect. High Izbo! Each solution and novelty, even the most beneficial for citizens, requires timely review and improvement. Undoubtedly, a qualified electronic signature will be, in the case of such an important activity as the establishment of the companies of O.O., a much safer and certain solution than an ordinary electronic signature. By building an e-state in which a citizen can easily handle official matters via the Internet, we must not forget about the safety of trading and the protection of personal data. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, we request that the project be directed to further work of the Parliamentary Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u530	Thank you very much. Three Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. First... [[One and a half minutes, Marshal.]] ...the question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki. Commissioner, we are still 40 minutes late. [[One and a half minutes, there's only three of us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiz Members' Club15 strongly welcomes all initiatives aimed at reducing red tape and making life easier for citizens. Nowadays on the Internet you can buy milk, pay for electricity, and even start a company with o.o. However, I wonder if the government intends to take any action to ensure that older people are not excluded from the changing world. My main point is that young people have the opportunity to handle many official or even legal matters on the Internet, and older people are still doomed to handle many things directly. Does the government intend to take any action to activate and educate seniors in the field of electronic handling? Will there be any training, workshops, information points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u532	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Eliminate the possibility of using an ordinary electronic signature when setting up companies with o.o. in simplified mode, it appears to be a hit decision. The increasing popularity of the S-24 mode justifies actions to increase the safety and certainty of economic turnover, especially since other activities in the ICT system concerning companies already require the use of a qualified electronic signature or ePUAP. The amendment of the three laws proposed in this paragraph is therefore without doubt and is a continuation of the good legal solutions implemented by the previous government. On this occasion, however, we should ask ourselves: Why is the Code of Commercial Companies maintained by the principle that the entity registering the company with o.o. is it not possible to contribute in a form other than monetary form under S-24? Is it possible to develop a technical and legal solution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which would allow the company's registrant to contribute in kind in kind? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u534	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Marek Kwitek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u535	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For 5 years it is possible to set up a company with o.o. using only a simple electronic signature. This allowed cheaters to use other people's data. Although the scale of this phenomenon is not large, as there have been about 40 such cases so far, a change had to be made so that this would not be possible. More certainty and security will be ensured by qualified electronic signature and signature confirmed by trusted profile ePUAP, especially as their creation will be much simpler. At the same time, there are reservations that the amendment aims to increase unnecessary requirements for the establishment of the company. Therefore, I wanted to ask: What was the scale of the irregularities made by companies registered on the basis of a false signature? Second question: How real is the threat notified by the employers' confederation that the change of rules will lead to a decrease in the number of registered companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and when is it possible to complete the work on modernising the ePUAP system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u536	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u537	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In brief, I will answer the questions according to the order of their task. The question of Mr Rometsky from the Kukiz club15. It is not entirely addressed to the office which I have the honour to represent, because the extremely important issues of policy towards seniors are outside the scope of the ministry and competence of the Minister of Justice. With regard to the project that I have the honour of presenting today to the High House, I would like to stress that this is an option. The S-24 is an option. There's no way he's gonna miss his options. These possibilities are and will be, and will be, much wider, with regard to setting up a company in a traditional way, i.e. notary, which means that any person, whether belonging to a group of seniors, or for any other reason not able to use option S-24, will be able to start a company with o.o. Of course, we're also talking a little bit about theory, because I assume that if we're talking about seniors, about people who, for various reasons, can be classified as an IT excluded group today, they don't really start companies, and if they assume, it's a rare situation. Maybe like this. But the government, of course, attaches great importance to senior policy, not to the ministry which I represent and which is acting on behalf of the government, presenting this proposal to the High House. As regards Mrs Gądek's question from the Civic Platform Club, it is indeed not possible in the S-24 system to set up companies using non-cash contributions. This is a deliberate procedure and the government is not planning to change. It seems that also the previous government, created among others. by this group, it did not accept such a solution, not because it was prejudiced to it in any way, but for two basic reasons. Firstly, because we are dealing with the construction of a simple company from o.o., and the issue of the import, the non-cash contribution immediately complicates the construction very much, and this was intended to be used in the case of very typical companies, such massively used in economic trade, and any issue of the non-cash contribution significantly complicates the construction. Secondly, the verification of the value of non-cash contributions always raises some doubts and, in so far as it is possible in the case of a company set up in a traditional form, and this is the case, it is no longer so easy for a company set up by means of ICT tools. Hence we have no plans, I speak on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, which the government represents here to include this option - because I stress: this is option S-24 - also companies more complex than the simplest ones, i.e. companies in which we are dealing with non-cash contributions. And as for the third question, Mr Kwitek from the Polish People's Party, we do not keep detailed statistics on how many cases we have used improperly in accordance with the purpose of this instrument, from which we are resigning from this project. When I presented the proposal to the High House, I talked about the numbers of the order of 40 and 45, but this is on the principle of really obtaining information in the framework of current and supervisory work in the Ministry of Justice, as well as preparatory work for this law on the basis of actually the memory of registered judges, heads of departments, referenda ruling in these departments, i.e. - it is known - highly approximate respect. We're assuming that's the lower limit. Of course, such situations may come to light, especially if these companies, and we have such signals, were intended for criminal purposes, even for VAT fraud. These things might come out yet, we don't know yet. For today we have 11 reports of suspected crime in connection with the establishment of a company using other people's data, and preparatory proceedings are under way in these cases. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u538	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register, contained in print no. 1230, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on combating doping in sport (print No 1184). I ask the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Mr. Witold Bianca, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u539	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the Government of Law and Justice, I would like to present to the High House a draft law on combating doping in sport. It is the first attempt to comprehensively regulate almost all issues related to one of the biggest sports pathology, such as doping. This is a groundbreaking project, which provides for modern and systemic solutions, whose implementation will make Poland join the world's avant-garde in the fight against doping, alongside countries such as the United States or the United Kingdom. This project concerns honesty in one of the spheres of social life, namely sport, thus fulfilling the electoral demands of Law and Justice. This is a project to which as a former player I have a very personal relationship, because I know how important this feeling in sports is when it becomes at the start as equal with equal, with the same chances of winning and knowing that no one will take this opportunity unfairly. Every player deserves to approach competition with that kind of faith, and we should all give players that right. As a minister in the government of Law and Justice, I have never held back my attitude towards doping. Today I will repeat from the Seym tribune: everyone who succeeds in sports, using doping, is a cheater and a loser, covers his name with a disgrace and shows disrespect for other players, for other athletes, and also undermines the ideals on which sport has been built for many centuries. Unfortunately, today's doping is no longer just a problem of competitive sport. Studies carried out in Norway and Poland show that this activity is more and more frequent in recreational sport. It is estimated that at least 2% all users of fitness clubs or gyms and as many participants as street gears use doping. Therefore, one of my first actions after taking office was to start work on a draft law which will effectively reduce the phenomenon of doping in sport. High Izbo! The project, which I have the pleasure and the honour to present today, is extremely important for the future of Polish sport. International standards for the fight against doping, which is set by the World Anti-Doping Agency, are developing extremely dynamically, bringing new expectations and challenges to the countries. This project does not only meet them, but allows them to think of Poland as one of the leaders of this fight in the near future. The World Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, praised the proposed solutions. Without a shadow of a doubt, I can say that this is a project for which Polish sport has been waiting for many years. The most important assumption is the creation of a completely new entity responsible in Poland for combating doping in sport. However, this will not be a cosmetic change in replacing one body with another. This will be a very deep and well-thought-out institutional reform, leading first and foremost to simplification, second, to strengthening anti-doping structures. The position of the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport and its services will be taken by the Polish Anti-Doping Agency acting in the form of a state legal person supervised by the Minister responsible for physical culture. This change will not only eliminate some practical problems, such as the proper identification of one of the existing entities as a party to the conclusion of agreements or representation in international organisations, but will primarily facilitate and facilitate the acquisition by this new entity, agency, of additional resources for the performance of its tasks, including its business activities in the field of anti-doping control, and of the research and education programmes of UNESCO and WADA, as well as of the European Union. The Polish Anti-Doping Agency, which will be used in shortcut trading POLADA, will be equipped with new competences, especially in the field of so-called. co-operation with the police, prosecutors, Customs, Military Police or Border Guard. The draft law provides an opportunity to exchange information between these services and the Agency, allowing it to conduct its own investigations into doping matters. The agency will have an investigative post, which is currently the standard of the world's best anti-doping organisations, such as the UK agency or the agency operating in the United States. Without such action, it is difficult to imagine an effective fight against doping in sport at the moment. They generally rely on determining the involvement of a particular person, including a player, in doping on the basis of circumstantial evidence, without the need to detect a prohibited substance in the body or the use of a prohibited method. However, the Agency's main task will remain, as in the case of the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport, the planning and implementation of anti-doping controls both during and outside the competitions. A novelty will be a significant professionalization of this task. The project provides that anti-doping checks will only be carried out by qualified controllers prepared to perform their functions by the agency itself. The project sets out in very detail the requirements for the training process. They shall be further clarified in the implementing act. The professionalisation of anti-doping control is also reflected in the granting of special status to the agency's controllers themselves. They shall, in the performance of their duties or in connection with them, be subject to the protection, but also to the liability provided for in the Penal Code for public officials. The activities carried out by controllers shall be deemed to be carried out for the public good, hence this special status. It is intended on the one hand to guarantee adequate protection for controllers, but on the other hand to act preventively, even in the face of the threat of a corruption controller. High Izbo! The project presented by me is also a continuation of some changes in the law initiated in the summer of Ub. on the basis of proposals to amend the Sports Act by a group of Members of the Law and Justice. That project provided for a change in the way in which disciplinary responsibility for doping is exercised in sport. At that time, we were done with the settlement of these matters by Polish sports unions, which acted as judges in their own case, often ruling in the wrong interest of the player, not the fight against doping. The Commission then gained competence to establish and implement disciplinary rules for doping in sport, which in retrospect helped to improve the quality of Polish disciplinary case law in matters of doping in sport. The project I presented today strengthens this process. It provides for the establishment of a disciplinary panel at the agency to settle all disciplinary matters concerning doping in sport. The solution is therefore to replace the powers of disciplinary committees operating within Polish sports unions, some of which had neither the knowledge nor the experience to rule on doping in sport. The only specialised body to guarantee the efficiency and integrity of the proceedings will be the disciplinary panel. The project defines both the mode of operation of the panel and the way in which its members are selected. High Izbo! The draft act on combating doping in sport also gives the police and the Customs Service the authority to carry out activities aimed at detecting and prosecuting smuggling and trafficking in doping substances prohibited in sport. It is accompanied by appropriate criminal provisions providing, under the conditions laid down in the draft, for fines, restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 3 for the provision of certain prohibited substances to third parties, whether for payment or free of charge, for their marketing, importation or introduction into Poland. In particular, the need for such legislation relates to the category of prohibited substances such as steroids, which are increasingly interested in organised criminal groups as cheaper and, of course, in quotes, safer alternatives to drug trafficking. The draft also sets out a legal framework for the Agency's cooperation with the Minister responsible for Health. It is intended to be carried out to inform the public of the possible risk of illicit substances in food supplements and the risk of use of prohibited substances or methods, as well as to ensure the correct labelling of medicinal products, in particular if they contain prohibited substances. The project also regulates the legal status of the processing of personal data of players subject to anti-doping control. These data after the entry into force of the Act will be processed on the basis of its provisions, not the consent of the players, which in theory they could not give. The scope of data subject to processing, as well as the time limits for their storage and manner of destruction, will be defined. Importantly, the project also restores the legal obligation of a player to undergo anti-doping checks absent from the Sports Act and requires him to provide specific information, including on his intended place of residence within the next 3 months. High Izbo! The project presented by me is the first and most important step towards building in Poland a strong and reliable anti-doping system recognizable all over the world, but not the only one. The complementary character of this is the other actions taken in the Ministry I direct, including increasing the number and effectiveness of anti-doping controls or the purchase of modern equipment for the Polish anti-doping laboratory. Poland is 14th in the world today in terms of the number of samples taken during anti-doping controls. We plan to increase this number from 3.3 thousand. in 2016 to almost 4,000. in this year, and ultimately - to 4.5 thousand. in 2020 In time, the agency is to become a partner in anti-doping control for all organizers of sporting events in the region and a mentor partner for other anti-doping organisations, in the first place for Azerbaijan and Ukraine. It is also planned to strengthen the position of an anti-doping laboratory in Warsaw, one of just 34 worldwide accredited by WADA. The aim of the laboratory is to obtain permanent status of the leading centre of anti-doping analysis in the region, taking samples not only from the Polish Anti-Doping Agency, but also from other national anti-doping organisations and international sports federations organizing sports competitions in the region. It's happening today. The laboratory analyses samples from Belarus, Ukraine, Lithuania, Russia or Spain. 2016 was a record year in terms of the number of samples taken for analysis from abroad. We would like to maintain this trend, so in 2016 we made the biggest financial expenditure in the history of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism on the laboratory of 8 million PLN. High Izbo! Back to the draft act on combating doping in sport, I would like to remind you that it contains technical provisions within the meaning of the Council of Ministers regulation on the way the national system of notification of standards and legal acts works and that it has therefore been notified. This procedure includes the definition of doping in sport, criminal rules and provisions on the processing of personal data. I ask the High House to have a good and substantive debate on the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u540	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, you have the floor of Mr Jacek Falfus, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u541	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I recommend to you the government bill on combating doping in sport contained in print No 1184. This project is the first attempt to comprehensively regulate all issues related to combating doping in sport in a single legal act. The need to adapt Polish legislation to international standards and current needs in this area requires the introduction of a comprehensive regulation of this important issue in order to effectively eliminate practices incompatible with the idea of sport. The best solution is to separate anti-doping regulations from the Sports Act and to pass a law on combating doping in sport as proposed in the government project. According to Law and Justice, it is stressed that the proposed law covers all aspects of combating doping in sport, including the principles of the proposed Polish Anti-Doping Agency and cooperation with other services. The proposed law also implements international obligations on Poland. The government project precisely and unambiguously defines the concept of doping in sport by calculating the behaviour considered as doping. This definition is in line with the most up-to-date definition of doping contained in the World Anti-Doping Code, which sets international standards in this respect. What is particularly important, the proposed law also defines the concept, I quote, of the period during the competition, which is crucial in the performance of the duties and tasks associated with combating doping, including anti-doping control. A novelty, as we have heard from the Minister, is the need for a new organisational structure, i.e. Polish Anti-Doping Agency, which is to act as a state legal entity. At the same time, it requires that the establishment of a new entity does not entail the need to secure the operation of higher budgetary resources. It is important to give legal personality to the agency, as this gives it the opportunity to actively raise additional resources for current activities, participate in international programmes financed by international organisations and provide anti-doping control to external actors. In order to effectively eliminate doping in sport, the Act specifically regulates procedures related to the submission of anti-doping control by players. The Agency will have exclusive power to apply and implement disciplinary rules on doping in sport after the entry into force of the Act, which will eliminate the existing divergent case law in this respect. The proposed proposal also provides for the establishment of a Disciplinary Panel, which will decide, as the Minister also said, on disciplinary responsibility for doping in sport in accordance with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Congress and the International Convention against Doping in Sport. This solution was proposed during a government public consultation and was recognised by many Polish sports unions, because it allows for a smooth and effective settlement of cases. An important issue concerning the law is the inclusion of criminal provisions which provide for the Penalisation of certain behaviours related to the administration of prohibited substances. It provides, in particular, for criminality as regards the administration of substances with exceptional health harm to minors, including, inter alia, Anabolic steroids. Raising the penalty threshold is intended to be preventive, as recognised by the Act. In summary, the proposed project identifies the priorities of the Government of Law and Justice, which are aimed at a determined fight against doping, which destroys the original and fundamental ideas of fair play sports competition. The Act will be a tool to combat criminal activity and harmful activities of the doping business. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the proposed government bill on combating doping in sport. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u542	Thank you very much. Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u543	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have the pleasure of expressing our opinion on the proposed bill on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Ladies and gentlemen, cheering is a great evil in sport. It seemed to us until the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro that this topic was not entirely relevant to us. We were very critical of the situation that took place in Russia, what was the approach to doping there, that it was doping, you could say, systemic, and then the Rio Games began. and we were in the languages of the world as those who criticize Russia so much and then behave little better. Surely the bill, which is proposed by the Minister, is going in the right direction. We must definitely fight cheering, we must fight for the purity of sport, but we must realise one thing. We're all cheers. The number of substances that are currently on the list of banned substances is so large that each one of us, who is using a flu agent, aspirin with some other substances, is also a cheerleader. We should also remember all of this when it comes to information, especially for young players, which they should not and cannot take. Some time ago, last year, 1 January last year, in Germany, perhaps one of the most restrictive anti-doping laws in the world was adopted, which, in addition to sanctions of disqualification, also takes into account prison penalties and financial penalties for players who take illegal measures. There is another very important and interesting provision in this law that imposes on manufacturers and importers of all the medicines that we are able to find in the pharmacy, the need to include information there that a given measure may result in a positive result of anti-doping control. This is particularly important information for young players, because they are often unaware that taking such a thing rather than another, they may be accused of using illegal doping. There's one more thing I'm missing from this bill about the possibility of taking part in competitions for directors or panel members. Everyone needs to be checked when it comes to whether they've been punished or not, but there's no information there that they've never had a positive anti-doping test. In my opinion, there is no sport and it should not be on the boards or among the presidents of Polish unions, especially when it comes to the director of such an important agency, which is supposed to fight doping, there are places for people who had any contact with doping, because in my opinion it does not support it. If someone is to direct an agency or participate in punishing someone, he should really have an extremely clean card. This is one of the very important elements, in my opinion, which actually is able to scare away enough that it shows that if anyone ever had contact with doping, then his sports life on this will already end, that actually penalties will be important and will very seriously interfere with the later life of such a man. For now, this punishment of disqualification is often not enough, and it does not scare away, and we must remember that sport should be clean, sport should be clear. In a few days I will have the opportunity to collect a different color of the album for the 2005 World Cup. It's been 11 years, and it's gonna be a sad opportunity for me anyway, because that's not what sport should depend on. Now we also learn about the results of the Olympic Games many years ago. We need to consider whether it is really worth watching these sports competitions. I hope this bill will allow us to go even further as regards the organisation of the fight against doping, because this is the first step so far. I'm all for and the club. Civic Platform [[♪ The bell ♪]] She will support the Minister in making this bill work as best as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u544	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u545	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft act on combating doping in sport is the result of the need to adapt the Polish anti-doping system to the realities and requirements imposed by international competition. The project itself is not bad. Establishs a transparent anti-doping control system, defines illegal doping, participation in its provision, conditions for testing. Moreover, the project does not create further institutions, it does not involve hiring another army of officials. The legislator should be commended for this, and this happens very rarely in contemporary legislation, that sets the top limits for state funding for the newly created Polish Anti-Doping Agency. Thus in 2017 it will be a maximum of PLN 3 million, and then every 2 years this amount will increase by PLN 0.5 million until 2026 when it reaches PLN 5 million. Even reasonable assumptions, of course, will verify their practice. This project is an opportunity to create an anti-doping system from a real event. Sadly, the legislator is not trying to look at the matter from a broader perspective. We forget about the entire training system of our athletes, staff and research institutions. The Polish Anti-Doping Agency could be incorporated by the legislator into a wider system of cooperation between the sports departments of universities and research units. We create an anti-doping system, but we forget that close cooperation with science would allow synergies and develop new concepts of research and technology. For example, at the University of Rzeszów will be established soon, actually I hope that soon, a large and modern athletic center. The placement of the agency, or at least its branch, with such a facility surrounded by people of science, would not only achieve better results in the anti-doping control, but also reduce the cost of its operation and achieve real added value. I hope that the Agency will establish such cooperation on its own initiative. On the other hand, as a Kukiz club15, we are very much in favour of this law and I will agree with both the Minister and my predecessors that the doping in sport is shameful, and without hesitation we will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u546	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław has the floor... No, I'm sorry, Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u547	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the government bill on combating doping in sport. The problem of doping is undeniably very important not only for health reasons but also for educational reasons. Young players, who are often underage, who are under a lot of pressure from coaches and successful sponsors, reach for prohibited measures with silent consent and sometimes even with the active participation of their training staff. The whole world is currently struggling with illegal doping in sport, which can have far-reaching consequences in the future. The Olympic champions lose their medals after years due to new methods of detecting illicit substances. Unfortunately, Poland is also not free from this problem. Therefore, you should do everything in our power to make Polish athletes, but also their trainers are aware that only winning with fair play rules is worth anything. Sport is one of the most apolitical areas of life around which Poles unite. There is no doubt that penalties for the use of doping by athletes should be much stricter. The laws on which we discuss exclude articles concerning doping from the Sports Act. This is a very good change, because regulations on the problem of combating doping and responsibility for its application should be the subject of a separate law. Moreover, it should be noted that the need to adopt a separate act on combating doping in sport has certainly not appeared during the last year, but has been signalled during the last few terms. Clear anti-doping rules primarily require a very rapid development of medicine and technology, and the inclusion of all doping regulations in a single legal act will allow for a faster response to adverse events that occur in the sport environment. Modern is definitely in favour of a ruthless fight against doping, all activities aimed at minimizing unfair competition will be supported by our club. We will vote in favour of directing the project to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u548	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The act on combating doping in sport is an extremely expected, necessary law regulating the existing rules, which are uniform, but were contained in many different regulations, and thanks to the ordering of them by the States it was possible to close them in one piece of legislation. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this law is primarily aimed at building the backbones of moral athletes, because this is above all the motto of every athlete - competition and competition based on fairness and justice - but there are situations in life where young people entering the world of sport are not fully aware of many aspects that accompany sport, while those who want to win, the staff behind such an athlete, do not always have the same intentions. I would like to draw attention here to issues relating to the protection of such a person, his defence. I would like to ask, Minister, how can we protect an athlete who enters this world, defend him, because here it is clearly defined: the fight - yes, we, too, as Modern, sign up for these two hands, fight with doping, time for honest sport, time for fair play - but we would also like to point out that there is the possibility of protecting young athletes who enter this world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u550	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft act on combating doping in sport, print no 1184. What's cheering? This is an artificial increase in the physical and mental fitness of the player by methods that go beyond normal training. Medical methods that are harmful to health are considered as doping, officially prohibited. Doping is widely used in various sports. The side effects of the use of doping are very large, its misuse can cause health loss, disability, and even premature death. The use of doping by athletes becomes more sophisticated every year. Fighting illegal doping is a continuous race between using new prohibited methods and detecting them. The World Anti-Doping Agency presented a report on athletes caught using substances banned for 10 years since 2005, depending on sports discipline, where most doping cases were detected. In the first place were athletes, then lifting weights, cycling, force triathlon, bodybuilding, wrestling or swimming. The leading countries where banned substances are most commonly used include India, Russia, the United States, Italy, the Czech Republic, France, Australia, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil and China. As regards doping in Polish sport, in 2016 3,000 were collected. samples from which 60 proceedings have been initiated. As regards the draft act on combating doping in sport, it concerns the separation of rules on combating doping in sport in order to combat doping comprehensively, including the organisation and financial economy of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency or the cooperation of agencies with services such as the Police, Border Guard, Customs Service, MPs and others. The proposed law will aim to introduce, among others, the following solutions: defining the concept of doping in sport, establishing a Polish Anti-Doping Agency, providing it with legal entities, defining the scope of its activities and identifying its bodies with the scope of their activities, defining requirements for anti-doping controllers, their training and their powers and tasks, defining the principles of the agency's financial economy. The bill introduces an obligation for players to submit to anti-doping control during and outside competitions. Includes: establishment of an independent Disciplinary Panel at the agency; establishment of rules for cooperation between the Agency and the Police, Customs Service, Border Guard, Police Police and Prosecutors, as well as with the Minister responsible for Affairs. health to the extent that doping in sport remains a matter of public health; laying down rules for granting grants to the Sport Institute - the State Research Institute for the tasks of maintaining the accreditation of the World Anti-Doping Agency and purchasing anti-doping research equipment; amending the criminal rules on doping in sport; introducing a concept of public interest in the context of the activities carried out by the Agency; giving the security agency's anti-doping controllers the act for public officials. The Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of referring the government draft law to further work in the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u552	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law on combating doping in sport. The aim of this project is to improve the functioning of the current anti-doping regulations by supplementing them and separating them from the Sports Act to a separate legal act. Such action is dictated by the need to improve the Polish anti-doping system, which will also increase the transparency of the entire Polish sport. The key solution proposed by the projectors is the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency POLADA, which is to take over the competences from the Commission to Combat Doping in Sport and the office serving it. POLADA is to be an organisation operating as a state legal entity, enabling it to obtain grants from international institutions such as the World Anti-Doping Agency. It is therefore a favourable solution, which combines two entities, reduces costs and at the same time gives the possibility to increase the budget of this unit. The provisions of this project provide for an increase in the number of anti-doping checks and the granting of protection to controllers identical to that of public officials. These changes, together with the provisions governing cooperation between the Polish Anti-Doping Agency and the Police, Border Guard, Customs Service, Military Gendarmerie and the prosecution, will increase the effectiveness of prosecution of unfair behaviour. I do not doubt that they will also lead to greater transparency and fairness in sports competition. I hope that in time they will eliminate completely from the world of sport players using prohibited means. About Free and Solidarnia, supporting the government's vision and its desire to rebuild sport as one of our greatest national goods, supports this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u554	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen! Effects on the body of athletes in order to artificially improve their ability is simply a very sharp deception. The results achieved by them are not the result of hard work, that is, training, but of using medicines. It must also be said that doping is very harmful to the health of often very young players. Therefore, legal interference is fully justified here. I consider the severity of the punishment to be justified because taking harmful substances ruins the body, but I have a question of why an athlete is to be punished, who does not know that a particular substance is banned. Today, the entire staff of people work with young athletes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I agree with my excellent previous speaker, Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, that today, today, there is a terrible amount of these drugs on the market.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u556	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u557	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u558	Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u559	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the proposed law requires players to undergo an anti-doping control carried out by the agency both during and outside the competitions. Article 4 is replaced by the following: Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the proposed law also provides for additional obligations of the player related to anti-doping control. For example, he is obliged to provide information on his whereabouts during the next 3 months, which is intended to help the agency carry out any anti-doping checks outside the competitions. This obligation arises from international rules of the World Anti-Doping Agency. I would like to ask you to clarify how the return will be treated and beyond. What specific time range will the agency be required to carry out after the competitions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are these the three months I've been talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u560	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I perceive the appointment of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency as a reaction to an incident involving Polish barbellists. But since this is a very positive reaction, I will only celebrate it with an eternal phrase: better late than later. I hope that the Minister will provide us with a full, detailed estimate of the functioning of the agency and the laboratory together and indicate the sources of funding. I would also like to know how police officers will be filled in the role of controllers. Will any policeman be able to find employment, or are special requirements planned? If so, what is it? Will there also be doctors employed and with what qualifications? In addition to the answers to these very important issues, given that the Minister is taking action for the transparency of Polish sport, I ask that you explain as accurately as possible what is happening in the Polish Tennis Union. Did the Ministry of Sport and Tourism withdraw the 300-thousand grant? Does the Minister have any idea of the chaos in Polish tennis and why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has chaos really gotten in the way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u562	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u563	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The key changes provided for in the Act concern the establishment of a Polish Anti-Doping Agency. It will replace the current Commission for Combating Doping in Sport and the office of this committee. The scope of action on doping will also be changed, as the agency will have an investigative post. I wanted to ask you about specific solutions in this area. How's this anti-doping investigator gonna work? What powers will the officers working in this vertical position have? Who will be able to work in such a vertical position, and what qualifications should he have? I also wanted to ask what is the expected level of employment in the new agency and what its budget will be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u564	Thank you. Mr Adam Korol, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u565	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I sign my two hands under this bill. I've always been opposed to doping, I've always talked hard about those who use this doping. Interesting news today, too. At the World Championship in Biathlon, one of the French medalists refused to stand on the podium next to a Russian runner who had recently run out of punishment for using the EPO. Good solutions, I think. Well, it's a good thing the responsibility for punishing cheerleaders was taken off the union, because it's always, you know, a shirt closer to the body. Now the disciplinary panel is responsible. I think this is a very good solution. I just have a technical question. Minister, why the discrepancy between the term of office of the Director of the Board of Agencies and the Head of Panel [[♪ The bell ♪]] Disciplinary? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u566	Thank you. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u567	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 6 years after the entry into force of the Sports Act of 25 June 2010, which includes Chapter 9, entitled "Fighting doping in sport', it is necessary to make comprehensive changes in the way in which the fight against doping is regulated by law. This is also due to the need to adapt Polish legislation in this field to rapidly changing international standards. Everyone in this room agrees that doping is reprehensible, and there is no acceptance for him. Doping is an obvious fraud. The proposed legislative changes go in the right direction - tightening control and establishing a Polish Anti-Doping Agency. Minister, I ask you to answer, which results in differences in the maximum expenditure limits for the agency's activities from the state budget. Where did you get these calculations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and are they simply too small, given the responsibilities and tasks of the agency, which is very extensive? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u568	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u569	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister. In order to combat doping, the spirit of sport must be promoted. Each anti-doping organisation is required to develop and implement educational programmes for athletes, including youth and support staff for athletes. The question is what educational programs the Ministry has developed and planned for the fight against doping in professional and even amateur sports. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u570	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u571	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Among the Members there were prominent athletes, medalists of the Olympic Games, world championships, but most of us are fans who would just like to watch sports events in an honest, clean edition. Therefore, I would like to refer to areas that are not according to the criteria of the Doping Act, but which raise many doubts. The first issue is the taking of prohibited measures, if justified on medical grounds. Therefore, athletes are becoming the best in the world - I call one of the winter sports disciplines. The second point, seen at the athletic stadium during the last Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro . This is about running for 800 m of women, before which each kindergartener would point to the winners of the race, seeing the unnatural stature of some runners. My question: Are these two issues - tolerance [[♪ The bell ♪]] for taking steroids for certain disease units and controlling gender parameters - should not be better regulated? What agency deals with this other issue? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u572	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question about the draft law, which is precisely what I want to define the issue of membership in the disciplinary panel, because it seems to me that there should not be such a situation that there is a connection between a function in the Polish authorities of sports unions, as proposed in the draft law, and any function in the agency itself, which is to be de facto independent of the disciplinary panel and accredited by WADA laboratory. It's an art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 draft law. It is therefore not possible for persons from the body responsible for sampling or from the body responsible for the analysis of samples to be able to act simultaneously in a disciplinary body. Often in the course of anti-doping disciplinary proceedings [[♪ The bell ♪]] allegations are raised concerning derogations from international standards for which representatives of the sampling and analysis body are required to comply.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u574	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u575	Therefore, the disciplinary panel should be completely...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u576	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u577	...independent both...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u578	Madame, I ask you very much to observe the time. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Thank you. [[Voice from the room: It was a big mistake.]] [[That's too bad.]] Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u579	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Often, in order to get to know the architect, what he's guided by in his work, there's some realizations, and the economist talks about the economists who built him. I want to ask you about these educational programs, laboratory work, medical procedures: What foreign patterns would be good to follow? What good solutions do you see that we should use in the Polish Anti-Doping Agency, which will give us positive points? What direction is this agency going to go? Because it also shows what kind of background we're going to build for this, what kind of thinking we're going to be in a given agency, how we're going to choose the president and the whole environment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u580	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Stępień not to be offended by me, because I cannot simply extend time because of sex. They all have the same time. [[Ten seconds?]] Mr Marek Kwitek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u581	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The contested law is a very important element of the fight against doping in sport. The scandalous events of recent months, both in Poland and abroad, show that so far solutions have become obsolete and do not conform to current realities. I am convinced that thanks to the proposed changes, sport in our country will be once again cleared of doping and that we will be able to focus exclusively on the subsequent successes of our fellow countrymen, and the newly created Polish Anti-Doping Agency will become a role model for its counterparts around the world. I believe that honest athletes will quickly appreciate this important initiative that will enable them to regain their faith in the true, beautiful, free from sport fraud. I have two questions in connection with the bill. Does the Ministry have data on the scale of the doping problem among Polish athletes in recent years? And second question: How much will the appointment of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency affect more effective control of athletes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u582	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Porzucek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u583	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 18 years ago, after a series of doping scandals, the World Anti-Doping Agency was created and for nearly two decades it seemed that doping was under control. In recent times it has turned out that unfortunately it is not so, it is quite the opposite. There is systemic doping in some countries, in Russia, there is systemic doping in some disciplines, e.g. in lifting weights. We have dilemmas, who is responsible for cheering: whether the player or the doctor or the staff member. We see it in Norway in the case of a leading runner, about whom we know what she's done. My question to the Minister is: How will the appointment of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency contribute to reducing the problem of doping in Polish sport? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u584	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u585	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Fair sport is a sport without doping. The Government of Law and Justice aims to ensure that doping is not in sport, precisely this bill. I'd like to ask the Minister about that. In disciplines where there is big money, there can always be a temptation to reach for doping. I have information that football is the most uncharted discipline in terms of doping among the most popular. What does that tell you? Is this due to costs, or are there just other reasons? Is this even real information that football is a discipline that I'm going to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unexplored? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u586	Thank you. Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u587	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is surprising that this topic, that the topic of doping so far has not been resolved comprehensively in the Polish legal system. And it's a good thing that this bill is finally being made. I am convinced that the High House will accept it. I'm not gonna bully my predecessors anymore, and I'm not gonna talk about the past, but I just want to say about the future, about this future of sport, especially children and young people. My question is: How does the Ministry of Sport want to conduct educational activities, preventive actions, sensitising young sports adepts, how dangerous and how dangerous is doping in sport? It is important to detect this type of practice, it is important to punish, while prevention and reduction of doping is perhaps the most important thing. I will compare this to drunk drivers who are still a plague on Polish roads, that they can be punished, can be caught, but probably the best way to limit such situations. And there's just a question for the Minister: Is he [[♪ The bell ♪]] a plan of the Ministry of Sports to run effective educational campaigns in sports unions or sports clubs, sensitising about the risk of doping? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u588	Thank you. Mr Jacek Falfus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u589	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is the period of 12 hours before the competition, which was included in the draft law in addition to the time of the competition, sufficient according to the designers of the law for effective fight against doping, given the technological possibilities of producing chemicals operating late or in a long way? And then there's the second line. This may not be a problem yet, but is it planned to take action to protect children belonging to sports clubs from the use of illicit substances? How can parents, if this problem arises or occurs, be sure that their children who play sports do not get banned substances? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that a problem, or is it to be expected? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u590	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u591	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In connection with the government's draft act on combating doping in sport and plans to set up a Polish Anti-Doping Agency in place of the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport, I ask the question: Did the Ministry of Sport and Tourism's legal basis guide any experience from other countries where such bodies already function, and what tangible results have they produced in these countries in terms of combating doping in sport? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u592	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Sport and Tourism, Mr Witold Bianka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u593	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, At the beginning, I would like to thank all of you very much for the consensus and agreement that the law on combating doping in sport is extremely necessary and that you all agree that this is an extremely important legislative proposal, an extremely important solution that needs to be introduced. I would like to thank all of you very much for this. I answered a large part of these questions and your comments during the speech, presenting the assumptions of this project. But also, ladies and gentlemen, many of your proposals, many of your comments do not require legislative changes, but many of the solutions that have been proposed here, we are able to take into account at the stage of the agency's practical operation. With regard to the legislative process, I would like to remind you that the whole process of creating this project was carried out in consultation and close cooperation with the highest body involved in the fight against doping in the world, i.e. the World Anti-Doping Agency, and that many of the solutions we are proposing here are also modelled on those solutions that work in practice, even in the US or UK anti-doping agency, which are considered to be the best in the world. But I am convinced that our agency will soon join this group, because these signals that we also receive, and these opinions about this project, about this proposal are extremely positive. I had the pleasure of presenting this proposal at the Council of Europe's Sport Ministers in Budapest, and it was our solution and it was very much appreciated by my fellow Members from all over Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, there is no national colors for doping - it must also be made clear. The effects of this law can be as follows. On the one hand, we can see, we can see e.g. the drop in the number of doping cases, which is on the one hand we will be happy to see, because these solutions, these proposals have led to a situation in which fewer athletes decide to cheat us, but on the other hand we may find that these cases will be more detected, and also well, because this proves that these legislative solutions are effective, effectively eliminate cheaters from sport, and we care about it, we do not care about sweeping things under the carpet, only that those people who love sports, fans, people who love sports, cheat, eliminate sports. As regards the issue that you have discussed very widely, namely educational activities, this proposal and educational activities will, of course, be undertaken by the Polish Anti-Doping Agency, but they are now being implemented by a committee to combat doping. There are regular campaigns among athletes, informing about the dangers of doping. For a long time there has also been a hotline for athletes, active 24 hours a day, there athletes can contact the committee and get a number of information related to, for example, what medical means they can use. The same goes for the so-called. The anti-doping emergency room is functioning effectively. There is also a database of medicines and there are athletes who can check which measures are banned and which they cannot use. It must also be taken into account, ladies and gentlemen, that being a man of sport, being an athlete is also a huge responsibility and we are not able to release athletes from this responsibility completely. Unfortunately, athletes must realize that they must take responsibility for what foods they consume, what supplements they use, what supplements they take and what drugs they take. Today, I think this awareness is growing among athletes and they need to be very careful in this regard, vigilant, but above all professionalism, because athletes should be professionals and should pay attention to it. Ladies and gentlemen, just as we are unable to eliminate the crimes of everyday life, we will not be able to eliminate 100% of the doping from sport. Let us not delude ourselves, there will always be someone who will try to deceive us, but the main assumption of this law is that these people, these athletes, be as few as possible and that these cases, to eliminate these people from the world of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, it should also be mentioned that, as regards our laboratory and the actions we are taking, we have one of the highest indicators of the detection of doping measures in Europe, at 1.7%. , and that also indicates the effectiveness of the controllers. When it comes to issues related to the obligation to be checked, this obligation is functioning and it is a permanent obligation, i.e. athletes in general must indicate their whereabouts throughout the year and must be ready at any time if the controller appears to submit to the test. Ladies and gentlemen, many of these provisions, which operate in the law, also discuss the issue of independence, here was the issue of the independence of the disciplinary panel from other bodies of the agency. This follows from the Act and is precisely enshrined in the Act, talking about necessity, the independence of the panel and its members. With regard to the issue which has also been raised here, the length of the term of office of the various bodies, this discrepancy in the term of office of each body is due to the need for rotation. We do not want these changes to be in a specific year, we want them to be liquid when it comes to the exchange of members. whether it's the panel or the board of agencies or the matter of the director, the head of this agency. As far as budgetary issues are concerned, this is strictly set out in the OSR, why this is the budget. This is due to different types of tasks over the next years, and we have defined this closely within the framework of the OSR. What is very important, I will raise budgetary issues here, this new legal solution allows for additional funds, additional funds for the agencies, and this is a huge value. Unfortunately, today there is no such possibility, and there are measures, be it the World Anti-Doping Agency, or EU funds, or the UNESCO funds, which the Agency can boldly obtain for its tasks, thus also increasing the budget and even by carrying out business activities more effectively to carry out its tasks. It should also be mentioned here that the so-called theme has been raised. therapeutic exemptions, so-called TUE, athletes have the opportunity and must have it. Of course, we know from the world of sport that they are abused, but also in this fight against doping we need to be rational not to hurt athletes who are really sick sometimes. This is a very difficult topic, because it is a certain area for abuse, but I am convinced that there are specific solutions that will limit these cases. Here it is a great task for controllers and agencies to avoid such abuses. I am convinced that we will be able to limit this to the Agency. With regard to the statement made by the Member on when we started the legislative work on this law, I would like to remind you that the legislative work was started, the draft, in March 2016, and our actions in no way related to the doping affair we had at the Rio Olympic Games. I would also like to remind you that in 2014 an amendment was introduced to the Sports Act, a harmful amendment that was actually introduced by you, leading to such a situation that our rules related to the broad fight against doping were not in line with the rules of the World Anti-Doping Agency. It was because of this legal solution that our laboratory, our Polish sport, threatened a huge scandal, because we received an ultimatum from the World Anti-Doping Agency that if we did not correct this bad law that you introduced, by 13 August 2016, our anti-doping laboratory would be accredited on 13 August and this would indeed be a great international scandal. I think that would undermine the meaning of our solutions and we have corrected this error. Here all the Members and Senators of this amendment supported this change, but it was still a matter of the previous term, so that your error has been corrected, in close cooperation with the World Anti-Doping Agency, with WADA, which, as it were, coordinates this legislative process, the process of constructing this provision so that it is compatible with international solutions. The law on combating doping that we are proposing, and the solutions that are contained in this law are modern solutions, are solutions that put Poland really in the forefront of the world in terms of the fight against doping, and today we can boast that many countries want to model on these solutions. Today we are teaching Ukraine, we are teaching representatives of Azerbaijan, and there are other countries that are interested in how we have constructed this law, how we will implement these solutions and what are their basic assumptions. So I can safely say as head of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism that we are proud of this solution, with this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u594	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft act on combating doping in sport, contained in print No 1184, to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Penal Code and certain other laws (Prints 1260 and 1262). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Penal Code and some other laws, print No 1260. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 7 February 2017, the Sejm adopted a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. The Commission considered this resolution at its meeting on 8 February 2017 and asks the High Sejm to accept this one amendment of the Senate. What is this amendment? The amendment concerns an amendment to the wording of the article. 237 § 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and aims to exclude the right to use the control and retention of the content of telephone calls when the ongoing proceedings or the legitimate fear of committing a new offence concern offences under Article. 234, Art. 235 or Article. 236 of the Criminal Code, in so far as they relate to the offence or disciplinary offence. Art. 234 is a false accusation, Art. 235 is a false representation of evidence, and Art. 236 is a cover-up of acquittal evidence. The Commission has shared the position of the Senate that such a wide scrutiny of also offences or disciplinary offences would affect the right to privacy of a person in a disproportionate manner in relation to the person's harm to the good, which raises doubts in the light of the principles deriving from the Article. Article 2 and Article 2 47 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. the principles of the democratic rule of law and the principle concerning the protection of private life in relation to the principle of proportionality. The latter provision provides that restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights may be laid down only in the law and only if they are necessary in a democratic state for its security or public order or for the protection of the environment, health and public morality or freedom and rights of others. However, these restrictions must not affect the essence of freedom and rights. The statement that restrictions can only be established if they are necessary in a democratic country requires the legislator to consider whether the regulation is capable of leading to its intended effects, whether this regulation is necessary for the protection of the public interest with which it is connected, and whether the effects of the regulation are in proportion to the burden on the citizen. The principle of proportionality puts before the legislator, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 22 September 2005, the caselaw. Kp 1/05, on the one hand, the requirement to establish the actual need to intervene in the individual's right or freedom in a given state, and on the other hand it should be understood as requiring the application of such legal measures which will be effective, and thus actually serve to achieve the objectives pursued by the legislator. In turn, the article. The 47th Constitution states the right to legal protection of private, family life, honor and good name and to decide on its personal life. This law is closely linked to the so-called law. the information autonomy of an individual who is merely self-deciding to disclose information about himself to other entities. It is possible for public authorities to obtain information about entities but subject to compliance with the requirements of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 constitutions, i.e. where this concerns information necessary in a democratic legal State, and also subject to the conditions laid down in the abovementioned Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, the principle of proportionality. The Extraordinary Commission requests support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u596	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u597	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Law and Justice Club supports this amendment. I would like to stress that it fully supports the position contained in the report of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. I will no longer quote in detail, I would just like to point out that this change covers only a disciplinary offence and a disciplinary offence, while it does not cover tax offences and tax offences. This Senate amendment has scope, let's say, limited only to those offences with the lowest quality weight. I ask the High House to accept this amendment on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u598	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Last year, we had no success in sealing the VAT system. VAT revenues have increased slower than domestic product - they have increased by only 2.3% and GDP by 2.8% - and about half as slow as last year's budget. This year, an increase in VAT was assumed compared to last year's performance by as much as 14%, which seems unrealistic. However, we believe that this law contains a number of laws that greatly tighten the penalty - up to 25 years for the crime of falsifying invoices, which is as much as murder - introduces penalties without making them dependent on the size of the loss and other things that are very debatable and questionable. The Senate did not take the opportunity to improve these things, but in one case it improved the law: it reduced the scope of wiretapping in comparison to the scope of this law. There the use of wiretapping in disciplinary proceedings and in ordinary offences is deleted, which goes in such a way as the use of wiretapping at all, i.e. some relatively serious crime. The Senate refers here in the explanatory memorandum to the Constitution, namely the question of proportionality, as well as to the Article. 47, the right to protect private life. The Civic Platform will support this amendment limiting the scope of wiretapping using this law to prosecute tax offences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u600	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I'm going to say yes, the so-called one. The VAT law-owska from the beginning is a fatal act. It's not even about the threat of punishment, because it's gonna end up being court-martialed, not the D.A.'s office. First of all, when threatened with such a long sentence, a Crown witness is used, whose credibility is highly questionable. That's one thing. Secondly, it is also not strictly assessed when the crime of fraud or carousel is intentional and when it is unintentional. Thus, we - from the beginning we have not supported it - will not support this law. Change, on the other hand, is going in the right direction. What's it gonna do to support her or deny her? She's de facto not gonna fix the bill. This bill was, is and will be bad. Therefore, as a club, we will not support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u602	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I will present my position on amendments to the Law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. Indeed, it is only regrettable to say that the Senate has not taken the opportunity and has not corrected this extremely bad bill, which imposes a very high level of criminal liability, up to 25 years... [[The amendment is now.]] [[But three minutes he wants to use.]] ...in relation to e.g. to a crime of giving amounts that are not factually correct, and these amounts may in turn be given as a result of the application of the wrong rate, thus de facto penalising errors in the issuing of invoices. Up to 25 years in prison for such mistakes. Moreover, the departure from the principle that it should be punished for the reduction in the tax system in favour of the overall amount of the invoice makes it possible to obtain three times more penalties by applying these provisions. On the other hand, the amendment merely minimally mitigates the repression of this law, referring - as has already been said - to disciplinary offences and offences, and in this respect the Senate stated that this would violate the fundamental civil rights arising from the Constitution, so it would be too far-reaching interference in the area of privacy and the mystery of communication. Considering that, the Parliamentary Club The modern amendment will support this Senate amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u604	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk delivered his position in writing. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Law amending the Penal Code and some other laws. Today, this draft comes back to the session of the Sejm following work in the Senate and the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. Only one amendment was accepted to abolish the right to use wiretap in disciplinary proceedings. The remaining amendments made by the opposition senators were rejected, as was the motion to reject the law. The Senate amendment does not change the essential shape and key provisions of the proposed amendment. The main objective of today's draft amendment to the Penal Code is to reduce the VAT gap and improve its collection. The new regulations are intended to significantly tighten the penalties for tax fraud. Strict sanctions will apply to fictional invoices, and offences and fraud-related offences are to be covered by specific rules of ordinary criminal law. With regard to the most budget-related fraud, people involved in criminal offences will have to face a prison sentence of between 5 and 25 years. Without a doubt, more severe penalties are needed with such a rapid increase in activity. At this point, however, it cannot be asked whether 25 years of imprisonment is an adequate and proportionate penalty to the burden of the act committed. Isn't it better to focus on the recovery by the Treasury of extorted amounts? Is it not better to prevent than to focus on punishment? And to prevent it in this case means to formulate VAT rules in such a way that fraud is impossible. In addition, we would expect the bill to aim to compensate for the damage caused by the fraud rather than to tighten the sentence of imprisonment for VAT crimes. As was rightly raised during one of the previous debates, the bill was apparently written only by Carnists, without agreement with financiers, or tax offices. In our view, such a high threat of punishment cannot be considered adequate to the prohibited act described in the amendment under discussion today. As has been repeatedly raised during the debates on the law, 25 years of imprisonment is the penalty provided for in the Penal Code for the most serious crimes, e.g. homicide. Moreover, even in the case of other crimes against health and life, such a threat is in vain. Regardless of the upper limit of the statutory threat, it should be borne in mind that a very strict lower limit has yet to be set. Thus, in principle, the court will not be able to impose a penalty lower than that provided for in the provision. This reminds us of times well past and meat and sugar scandals. At that time, disproportionate penalties were applied to the seriousness of the act. On several occasions, in cases of VAT fraud, allegations are made against businesses who have acted lawfully. This is because they were involved in the supply chain, in which at some point someone committed a crime. The law enforcement authorities of all those involved in such a chain treat equally - as working within a criminal group, which is not true in the course of the trial. The application of such strict sanctions as proposed in the draft law may result in a ricochet on such honest entrepreneurs, leading to the collapse of their activities. Unfortunately, there are no solutions in the whole VAT package that can better separate honest from dishonest VAT payers. You can only see one idea coming back like a mantra in government projects: severe penalties are supposed to be a panacea for all social problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u606	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 28 hours 22 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity (prints No 1265 and No 1275). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Social Insurance Cash Benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, contained in print No 1275. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy carried out its first reading and considered the draft at its meeting on 8 February 2017. The purpose of this project is to cover civil servants from the first day of sickness insurance with the right to sickness benefit and maternity allowance and all other benefits listed in Article. 2 Act on social security cash benefits in case of sickness and maternity. On 1 March, the Law implementing the National Tax Administration Act enters into force. Some of the officers who have been in the service so far will become employees. This bill is intended to ensure that those who accept the proposal and become employees from day one also acquire the right to benefits. The principle is that an employee or any insured person who is subject to sickness insurance must wait for the right to the first benefit of 30 days. And here, this law, which is implemented as a matter of urgency, even is defined as urgent, introduces amendments which are to prevent any worker from being harmed who will benefit from the transition under the Law introducing the Law on National Tax Administration. This draft law does not implement European Union law, nor is it covered by European Union legislation. I propose, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, that the High Sejm adopt the draft with a minor amendment tabled at the committee meeting, as is the case in the attached draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u608	Thank you, Madam President. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u609	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, prints no 1265 and 1275. This draft concerns Customs officials who have accepted the proposal for a work under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 7 and Article 7 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of In addition, it extends the scope of the entitlement to the benefit, including the entitlement of persons belonging to the category of customs officers covered by the amendment, who were on maternity leave, maternity leave, parental leave or paternity leave on the day of sickness insurance. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice considers this project necessary to secure the social security benefits due to this group, supports the proposal presented to the High House and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u610	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of my club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, print No 1265. Of course, we support the changes proposed in the processed project. This is the obvious consequence of being subject to the pension provision of uniformed officers, the transition to employment contracts and social security benefits, but I would like to say that this is also the consequence of the introduction of the law in a hurry in November 2016. I talked about this at the social policy committee meeting. I will repeat once again that when it comes to this project, attention should be paid to the subject circle concerning civilised officers. By March 1, there was little time left, 2, 3 weeks. Customs officers still don't know who this project is going to be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u612	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to mention on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 the amendment of the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, i.e. the project currently being examined in prints 1265 and 1275. This is a necessary change that cannot raise doubts or objections. As it is not possible to include the period of stay of customs officers for the required period of 30 days of continuous sickness insurance after which the worker acquires the right to sickness allowance, customs officers in the current legal state are not subject to sickness insurance. Customs officers who have accepted a job proposal pursuant to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 7 and Article 7 Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act of 16 November 2016. The provisions introducing the Act on National Tax Administration and became employees in the organizational units of the National Tax Administration are not subject to sickness insurance. After 2 months, the authorities noticed this important gap, it is a huge oversight, and in parliamentary mode they rush to proceed with a project that is supposed to repair the inaccurate, as you can see, underdeveloped project concerning the National Tax Administration. The Kukiz Posel Club15 will, of course, fully support this amendment and express its great hope of improving the quality of legislation in the government and in the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u614	Thank you very much. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u615	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns a minor but very important change for employees of the National Tax Administration, called KAS. The aim of the project is to amend the law establishing a new category of persons entitled to sickness benefits from the first day of sickness insurance. Customs officers who have become employees of the KAS are to be included in this category. Let me remind you that the law on the appointment of this institution was passed at the end of last year. The modern one was against, because from the beginning in our policy-making assumptions is the decentralisation of power, and the state of this project is pursuing its, how different from ours, policy of centralization, or taking over everything that is possible. In this case, we are talking about the taxes, that is, the finances of the citizens that you have, as you wish. KAS, as I understand it, was just supposed to be a tool that makes it easier for you to pull strings. But you've already introduced it, it's a shame that with mistakes, as evidenced by today's amendment. This project is, of course, necessary because it corrects your shortcomings, but this is another situation where we correct your mistakes, and this must be strongly emphasised. The procedure for proceding the draft laws presented by you is irrationally expressive, which both makes it impossible to get a fair look at the law and the legislative changes made and does not allow them to be consulted by experts and lawyers. What if this amendment had not been introduced? Who noticed that mistake? Isn't it a coincidence that people who might pass because they haven't figured out who's going to go through with it reflect on your good change? Was that the reason for this confusion yesterday and today with the so-called. A slip that we're briefed on just before the procession? As usual, many questions are raised, ladies and gentlemen, and we could make good rules in a good atmosphere, because that is what citizens expect of us - working in harmony with the people. And that is what I call on you to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u616	Thank you. The voice has... Aha, Mr Krystian Jarubas of the Polish People's Party has delivered his position in writing. Please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Mirror, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity. This amendment complements the Law of November of last year, which introduces the National Tax Administration institution. Thanks to the regulations contained in this project, Customs officers who, on the basis of the KAS Act, have taken up work in the organizational units of this institution and have thus been civilized, will acquire benefits without a 30-day waiting period. This amendment is motivated by the fact that, despite the change in their insurance status, the officials concerned do not have a break in employment and therefore it is appropriate to grant them the right to appropriate allowances on the date on which they are covered by their social insurance. Recognizing the purpose of this regulation and the need for it to be put in place without any question, near Free and Solidarnia will vote in favour of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u618	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What we are going to do today is the best example of how the so-called works. It's a good change. Since the National Tax Administration Act appeared, we have repeatedly stressed that one of the objectives of the Act is to eliminate, fire or deprive some tax collectors who for some reason will not like the new power. It's a bit of a whip on the insubordinate, but at the same time a staff that allows you to hire your own staff in management positions. The project was negatively assessed by customs unions. In the opinions of the unions we can read, among others, that the draft law of KAS was prepared without analysis. There is no reliable cost estimate of the introduction of the reform of the KAS - costs associated with the change of name, including the cost of changes in stamps, references, boards, uniforms, uniforms, stickers, marking of business cars, licenses, computer systems, removals, training for workers and entrepreneurs, checks for several thousand people released, sickness, overtime and checks for several thousand civil servants, etc. - and the calculation of the costs to taxpayers. Interestingly, the applicants from PiS were in such a hurry with this legislative bubble that they forgot to write to him the fact that the employees would be insured. It's hard not to support this project, because you can't leave people on the street. They've already been harmed by the PiS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u620	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 9 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And the High School that teaches them. Tadeusz Kościuszko in Konin is 150 years old. For 25 years he has been exchanging young people with students of secondary school from Celle and for several years from Ingolstadt. 25 years of Polish-German exchange brings people closer, builds friendships, teaches mutual understanding. This is how the unity of the European Union is built. The teachers of the German language Agnieszka Matyba, who started the exchange in 1992, and who continued this exchange Marzena Grzybowska and Grzegorz Szopa did a wonderful thing. About 1600 students participated in the exchange, lived in private apartments in Konin, Celle, Ingolstadt, taught each other tolerance, understanding of Poland and Germany, Poles and Germans, meeting in schools, performing theatre performances for each other, for example. Translated into German by Sławomir Mrożek. I received a very nice invitation from you to the anniversary of the exchange, in which you assure me that you will try to present our 25 years and show different shades of Polish-German relations. We will be pleased to see you and your opportunity - you write - to celebrate the anniversary together in the horse's educational family. We will be happy to share our joys and experiences - in this brief sentence you can see how much joy this exchange brings, how much good emotions it has. Happy birthday. Let the next 25 years build friendship between our nations, cities, schools, families. Today a debate on Poland's foreign policy took place in the Sejm. There were many arguments in favour of cooperation with Germany as one of the most important partners of Poland in the European Union. This is why it is so important to exchange young people, which is financed through the governments of both countries by Polish-German Youth Cooperation, while the German government spends around 6 million euros and the Polish government - 4.6 million euros. And this is the call I will make in the parliamentary interpellation to increase our contribution, because 160 projects last year did not receive funding because of the lack of funds and others were financed at the level of 50%. rates to allow more schools to take part in the exchange. It is also important because as a result of the reform Minister Zalewska will disappear in Poland middle school, which has so far participated in the exchange, and now it will be necessary to rebuild these partnerships within the new school network. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The exchange teaches acceptance and understanding. From multicultural Germany comes also young people learning in Germany, but coming from different parts of the world. It's an invaluable experience of respect and friendship. So the exchange continues, let it continue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u622	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Anczynski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u623	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 February 1945, Chojnice is recognized as the day of the end of the German occupation. The Red Army soldiers occupied the city centre after a few days of bloody fight against Germany. Chojnice was an important transport and railway hub for the Third Reich. As a result of the fight for the city, 800 Russian soldiers were killed. For Chojnice and residents of the city the almost 6-year murderous German occupation ended, and a new stage of joy began with the end of the war, reconstruction of the destroyed city, waiting for the return of family members scattered around the world. The soldiers from the east brought liberation from the hands of the Germans, but at the same time rapes and murders began, mindless destruction of everything left of the Germans, looting of apartments, factories, railway stations. The parish church, the buildings downtown have been set on fire. Chojniczania as residents of a border town considered by simple soldiers to be Germania had a very painful experience of liberation. A few days after the Red Army's entry into Chojnice, arrests and exports for Ural residents of Chojnice County began, for which there was no place in Poland for folk justice. Several hundred residents of the county for various reasons found themselves in a exile where they experienced a hard work. Only a few of them returned home in the '50s. On February 15, 1945, Sister Adelgund Kunigunda Tuminska from the Franciscan Sisters' Assembly of Atonement and Christian Love was raped and brutally murdered by the liberators after defending the girls attacked by the Soviet Councils. Soldiers murdered their sister with bayonets. The situation took place in the boiler room run by the Franciscans of St. Boromeus. The sister bravely stood up for three other young women by giving up her life. Her body was massacred. A few days before her death, her sister wrote: "You must sacrifice yourself, that is to say, to receive patiently the reminders and sorrows of your neighbor, and the cross and suffering from God. For several years the nuns and inhabitants of Chojnice have been praying for the beatification process of Sister Adelgund as part of the process of collective Eastern Martyrs. As a born Chojniczanin, I pay tribute to the people of my city, who painfully experienced the entry of Red Army troops into Chojnice in February 1945. I pay tribute to all those who died during the fight for Chojnice, to all those who rebuilt the city after the destruction of the war, and to all those who were sent for Urals. In a special way, I pay tribute to Sister Adelgund Kunigund Tuminska, who gave her life in defence of others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u624	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u625	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Music soothes customs, and thanks to great creators it gives us much good. One of these great, special people I want to introduce to you today. Wiesław Ochman, tenor born on 6 February 1937 in Warsaw, celebrated his 80th birthday this year. We accompanied him at this unique anniversary during the solemn session of the City Council and the Zawiercie District Council convened last Monday specifically for this purpose. Wiesław Ochman's brilliant career has been linked to the world's largest opera scenes for 50 years. Before he made the choice of his way of life, he studied at the Faculty of Ceramics at the Mining and Steel Academy in Krakow, where he obtained a master's degree in engineering. During his studies he trained his voice under the direction of Gustav Serafin in Kraków. A breakthrough in Wiesław Ochman's opera career was the role in Halce prepared for the grand opening of the Grand Theatre in November 1965. The role of Jontek in his performance resulted in great enthusiasm of the audience and praise for criticism, including foreign criticism. He performed on the world's largest opera scenes and performances with the largest opera stars: in Milan's La Scala, Barcelona, Buenos Aires, Madrid, Moscow, Rome, Seville and Vienna. He participated in the most prestigious music festivals with the participation of the most famous bands, including the Vienna and Berlin Philharmonics. Since 2000, Wiesław Ochman has also been directing at the Silesian Opera in Bytom, Mozart or Traviata. Ochman's oratory music was a separate artistic field. The master recorded over 50 albums for renowned labels. An important element of Wiesław Ochman's activity is the long-term charity for culture. In 1998 on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the birth of Adam Mickiewicz, the artist gathered works of Polish painters, which were staged at auction in the Consulate General of the Republic of Poland in New York. All the proceeds of the auction were transferred to the renovation of the Mickiewicz Museum in Vilnius. The master is also one of the others. Winner of the Order of Smile, ambassador of goodwill of UNICEF, in 2001 he became a bachelor of the Commander's Cross with the star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. In 2008, the Council The Academy of Mining and Hutnicza in Krakow awarded the artist the title of Doctor of Honoris causa. For my hometown Zawiercie, Wiesław Ochman's character is particularly important. Already since 1993, the master has participated in annual Zawiercie concerts, which take place under the common title "Wiesław Ochman" and its guests. The income from these funds is powered by an account of the hospital aid foundation in Zawiercie Auxilium. Of course, I don't have to add that the master doesn't take a fee. In recognition of cultural merit and charitable activity Wiesław Ochman received the honorary title of citizen of Zawiercie. Master, this year is the 25th concert. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u626	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u627	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's speech in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland is dedicated to my town Skierniewice for the 560th birthday. The year was 1457, on 19 February Archbishop Jan of the Sprowy coat of arms Odrowąż signed an act in Uniejów emerging Skierniewice as a city. Previously, for almost 100 years they were a village in the goods of the archbishopship of Gniezno, in the castle of Łowice in the Duchy of Mazowiecki - a fair village which developed economically mainly thanks to the trade road from Torun to Lviv, leading through Gostynin, Łowicz, Skierniewice and Rawa Mazowiecka. 560 years ago, the town of Skierniewice was granted city rights and German law in the Sroda Śląska variety in the 12th century, which was used in more than 100 cities in Poland. According to him, he ruled the city with jurors, and the city had limited autonomy and limited judiciary. Confirmation of the location of the town of Skierniewice Archbishop John of Sprowa received from King Kazimierz Jagiellonian in 1463 at the Crown Seym in Piotrków. He was also able to arrange for the king to be exempt from customs duties for the carriage of goods throughout the country for the towns of Skierniewice. Today, the Skierniewices have counted 560 years. The city's area covers more than 36 km2. As of the last day of December 2016, 47 837 people live in Skierniewice. It is a very good place to live, perfectly connected thanks to the Warsaw-Vienna railway line, the new A2 motorway with the Skierniewice junction, with fast access to the S8 route. The city, located between the capitals of Poland - Warsaw - and the voivodship - Łódź, is also the capital - the capital of gardening sciences. The basis for the right to use this name can be sought at the beginning of the last century. In 1919, the former Carski Palace and the farmhouse were handed over to the Warsaw School of General Farming in Warsaw, which located the gardening department in Skierniewice. By 1939, scientists who worked there created solid foundations for a scientific centre. Today there is a modern Departmental Experience Station in this place. Prof. Marian Górski. Probably few people know that in the years 1921 and 1957 the Cathedral SGGW was located in Skierniewice. In 1951, thanks to the efforts of the world-renowned scientist Prof. Szczepan Aleksandr Pieniążek, the Institute of Sadition and Floristry was established, and in 1964 the Institute of Vegetables was established, the foundation of which was created by Prof. Emil Chroboczek. By decision of the Minister of Agriculture on 1 January 2011, the institutes were merged into one Gardening Institute. This research unit is the leading European center for gardening research. I hope that no one will think of destroying the achievements of the tradition of gardening sciences and the scientific potential of the institute. In Skierniewice there are also two universities that educate students in gardening departments. Skierniewice is my city: quiet, clean, well-maintained, with an educational, cultural and sports base, with a revalorized park, covered with forests of the Bolimowa Forest. This is where I live and rest. I regret that, despite favourable climatic conditions and high-quality brines with healing properties, it will not become a health resort for the time being. But I hope that the local authorities will be able to use all the advantages of our city to make sure that the skierevichs live here as best as possible. So I wish my city development for its birthday, development in every area, and good decisions of all those upon whom the future of Skierniewice depends. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u628	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u629	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two excellent government decisions by Prime Minister Beata Szydło - the start of the construction of the S11 expressway and the granting of the status of the city of Mielno - created an unprecedented historical opportunity for the development of completely neglected today, not to say: abandoned, region of Poland. The Central Pomerania is today one of Poland's largest underdevelopment areas, it is at risk of permanent marginalisation, as confirmed by the document "Strategy for Responsible Development." He is a poor relative, Polish B voivodship of Zachodniopomorskie, his eastern wall. In areas belonging to Poland only 70 years we have been dealing with the occurrence of extremely disturbing phenomena: depopulation caused mainly by huge emigration, supplemented by increased influx of foreigners, and increased depolonization. The imposition of these factors means the rubble of Poland from Central Pomerania. It is a deadly policy for Poland. Government decisions have created a unique opportunity to develop a relatively low economy at the expense of the northern part of the Central Pomerania through the implementation of the natural and even expected concept of the two-city Koszalin-Mielno. This relationship of two cities, connected logistically and infrastructurally, already today to a large extent creates a relatively coherent, complementary urban organism. Of course, a two-city is not the absorption of one by another or the dominance of one over another, but the association of autonomous cities combined with common interests, benefiting from their coastal position. Historically, one can refer to the example of the Hanseatic League, which also belonged to Koszalin. Action is urgently needed to develop a coherent and clear concept of the two-city Koszalin-Mielno as a strong, extensive tourist and recreation organism on the central coast, which allows for the benefit of the previously unused maritime, natural, economic and population potential. The narrow throat of this concept is undoubtedly a terrible state of communication not only between two cities, but also in Mielno itself. High Izbo! We have high hopes for the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, because her decisions have opened the field for practical implementation of the idea of the two-city Koszalin-Mielno. In the history of the Western Pomerania, connected with the beginnings of the Polish Piasts and the continuous reign of the Piast Gryfit dynasty, there are often characters of outstanding women representing the Polish state's right. I believe - trying to avoid pathos and unnecessary courtesy - that any further decisions by the Prime Minister that would be conducive to the implementation of this idea would put it in the procession of those great Poles who contributed with their outstanding talents to the development of Pomerania and its integration with Poland. Since the history of the Western Pomerania in Poland is little known, misconstrued and often ridiculed, I remind several of these characters, while at the same time asking for a serious approach to the issue of the continuation of Polish political traditions. Princess Anastasia Mieszkówna, daughter of the Old Man lives, wife of the Pomeranian prince Bogusława I. Their marriage sealed the alliance between the Western Pomeranian and Wielkopolska princes. She was the mother of two Pomeranian rulers. The Polish princess Elżbieta, daughter of Kazimierz Wielki, wife of Duke of Pomerania Bogusław V. Their marriage strengthened the Polish-Pomeranian cooperation agreement concluded in 1343 in Poznań, directed against the Teutonic Knights. Her son was Kaźko Słupski, expected by Kazimierz Wielki to succeed the Polish throne. Anna Jagiellonka, named by the Germans Anna von Polen, ruler of the Western Pomerania, daughter of King Kazimierz Jagiellonian, wife of the greatest ruler of Pomerania Bogusław X and mother of the two subsequent rulers of Pomerania, has strongly strengthened Poland's ties with Pomerania. The inhabitants of Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, especially its eastern part forming Central Pomerania, expect to maintain the continuity of these traditions of our state and political thought, which appreciate the geopolitical role of Pomerania, contribute to its development and prosperity and strengthen relations with Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u630	Thank you very much. You have the floor of Catherine Czochar, the Law of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u631	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to inform you that Public Junior High School No. 1 in Prudnik has recently celebrated the 15th anniversary of the card name of the school. Stefan Wyszyński. Let me remind you, Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński was born on 3 August 1901 in Zuzela and died on 28 May 1981 in Warsaw. Primate of Poland from 1948 to 1981, Cardinal Presbyterate from 1953, called Primate of the Millennium, servant of God of the Catholic Church, posthumously decorated with the Order of the White Eagle. Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński was an undisputed moral and spiritual authority. During the period of communist repression against the Church and society, he defended the Christian identity of the nation. During the internment just in Prudnik, in the monastery oo. Franciscans developed a program for the renewal of religious life in Poland included in the idea of Jasna Góra vows of the nation. He also prepared the foundation of the great novena before the celebration of the millennium of Poland's baptism. Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński defended dignity and human rights. He always said that you have to make an effort to create a better future. I am delighted that the patron of Public Junior High School No.1 in Prudnik is cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński - spiritual and moral authority. On the 15th anniversary of giving our school the name of card. I wish Stefan Wyszynski to patronize all educational, educational and caring activities of the great and unique man, who was undoubtedly the Primate of the Millennium. I am convinced that our school in Prudnik will continue to celebrate the good name of the patron. In particular, I wish patriotism, integrity and integrity in work and science, respect for others and a sense of dignity. Taking advantage of the occasion, I wish young people the joy of gaining knowledge and developing the talents, abilities and fulfillment of the will that the Primate of the Millennium of Cardinals has left us. Stefan Wyszyński. Ladies and gentlemen! Let it be a unique message of card. Stefan Wyszynski will remain in our hearts for a long time: All that is ahead of you remains to be conquered. The life that is coming you can give deeper content, value and meaning. It depends on your assessment of life and time, your attitude to work, your respect for your mind, your heart's will, your human, national and Christian values. Let us take advantage of the Cardinal's work and draw from his wisdom, goodness, and inner beauty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u632	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u633	Declaration on the 75th anniversary of the National Army. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 February this year. We will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the National Army. Without a doubt, it was the strongest and best organized underground army in World War II. The National Army originated from the Union of Armed Fighting and the Polish Union of Insurgents. The order for its creation was issued by General Władysław Sikorski, chief commander of the Polish Armed Forces. It was composed of many smaller military organizations from both German and Soviet occupations. The first commander was General Stefan Grot-Rowecki. The National Army was a military conspiracy organization, which was an integral part of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. She was subject to the chief leader and the government of the Republic of Poland on exile. Its tasks were to create appropriate structures, mobilize society to fight, protect the Polish Underground State and restore the army during the struggle for independence. The strategic goal of the AK was to carry out the winning general uprising, the shares of the Storm. By the time it exploded, it was planned to wage a current struggle mainly involving sabotage, diversion, intelligence and propaganda. It was only later that guerrilla activities were to begin. For the purposes of the government, the National Army was to be a nationwide and cross-party organization, and its chief of command was to be the only government-enforced commander of the national armed forces. The National Army has been a mass organization from the beginning, increasing ranks by recruiting volunteers. At the moment of maximum combat capability, the AKs had about 380 thousand. persons, including 10,000. Officers. The culmination of the activities of the National Army was the Warsaw Uprising, which was a key element of the action organized against Germany. It began at the beginning of January 1944, at the end of the German occupation, when the Red Army entered the former territories of the Second Republic. Unfortunately, the defeat of the Warsaw Uprising led to the demobilization of the AK units. The Warsaw Uprising itself was not initially planned, but the political situation forced the fight for the capital. On 1 January 1945, Chief General Leopold Okulicki, pseudo. The bear gave an order to disband the AK, which also ended the action of the Storm. The losses of the AK amounted to about 100,000. dead, mostly murdered, soldiers, and about 50,000. has been exported to the USSR and imprisoned. In the years 1942-1945 more than 110 thousand were made. larger military-diversity actions. More than 150,000 were killed in the fight. German soldiers and policemen and collaborators. Polish underground located, among others. U-Boot bases across Europe, Focke-Wulf plants, were also acquired and transferred to allies in Germany. After the end of World War II, the soldiers of the Home Army were persecuted by the communist authorities, and all information about the activities of the AK during and after the war was subject to censorship. Therefore, in the face of the repression of the security services, some actress refused to demobilise and continued to fight in the framework of the Armed Forces Delegation, the Resistance of the Home Army or the Freedom and Independence Association. The mass persecution of members of these organizations, later referred to as soldiers cursed, continued throughout the Stalinist period. Many of them were sentenced to death or to years of imprisonment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u634	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 2014, the reverse mortgage credit law has been in force in Poland. Unfortunately, so far banks have not decided to introduce this solution on a large scale. In the Polish legal system, there are two solutions that allow money to be provided for the disposal of the right to own property after death. The first is a reverse mortgage loan and the second is a life-long cash benefit offered by mortgage funds. The reverse mortgage is the solution whereby a bank or other fund pays a cash benefit for the right to property for a specified period of time. Depending on the value of the property, this is usually from 5 to 10 years. In the case of a survivor's pension, as the name itself indicates, the cash benefit shall be paid for life. In both cases, a person who has decided to benefit from any benefit may live in an apartment or home for life. The life pension contract shall be signed in the form of a notarial act. The person who decides to enter into such an agreement with a bank or fund shall be secured by such entry in the perpetual books of the property concerned. The mortgage funds that would be willing to deal with the reverse mortgage or life insurance market cannot address the issue on a full scale because of the risk and lack of sufficient legal solutions related to the issue. Therefore, I would like to encourage the government to lean on the issue of life pensions and reverse mortgage credit, because for many people who have small pensions, the form of such support could significantly improve their living conditions. Many seniors who own often large apartments cannot afford current fees because they have a very low pension. They fall into debt, often leading to the loss of such property much below its value. At the time of the development of the reverse mortgage industry, we could help those who find themselves in this situation. A person who chooses e.g. on a reverse mortgage loan for the entry in the perpetual book, according to which it gives the residence to a bank or mortgage fund, will receive a cash benefit for several years, and when it decides to make a life pension, it will receive additional money every month. In both cases, he will retain the right to live in his apartment for life. I believe that the government should deal with the revision of existing legislation in such a way that more people can benefit from this form of aid, all the more so that the expected life expectancy of Poles is constantly increasing, and pensions, all indications of this, will be much lower than before.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u635	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today is the anniversary of the murder of Major. Zygmunt the Szendzielarz of Szupęski. For 9 years he fought for free Poland, first with Germany and later with the Soviets. He died on February 8, 1951 in the dark cellar of the Mokotów prison. Zygmunt Szendzielarz was born on 12 March 1910 in Unii. After the September defeat from the beginning of 1940, he became involved in conspiracy activities. Then he accepted the nickname "Łupaszka" in honor of the legendary borderman from the war with the Bolsheviks. He's wearing five. The Vilnius AK Brigade. She fought against the German and Lithuanian troops who collaborated with them, as well as against the hostile Soviet guerrilla. On January 31, 1944, he was wounded in a confrontation with the Germans. A few months later, in April 1944, during his stay in Vilnius, he was arrested by the Germans. He managed to escape and return to the squad. On July 23, 1944, the brigade was partially disarmed by the Red Army. Many of her soldiers, however, broke to the west. In August 1944 some of them were again under the command of Szendzielarz in the region of Bielsk Podlaski. After submission to the command of the Białystok district of the AK Szendzielarz, at the head of a small branch, moved to the Róża Forest. In November 1944, he was promoted to Major. In the spring of 1945 rebuilt 5. The Vilnius Brigade had about 250 soldiers. They carried out several dozen actions against NKVD, UB, MO and CWB. In September 1945, Szendzielarz was ordered by the Szendzielarz Command to dismantle the brigade. On 30 June 1948, he was arrested by MBP officers. The investigation lasted almost two and a half years. The process of the Scoundrel and other officers of the underworld of independence was a demonstration. It was broadcast by radio and widely described by the press. The accused were accused of bombing Soviet and Polish security officers, carrying out intelligence activities for the benefit of a foreign state and cooperating with Germany during the occupation period. On November 2, 1950, Zygmunt Szendzielarz was sentenced to death by the Military District Court in Warsaw. The sentence was executed on 8 February 1951 in a prison in Mokotów in Warsaw. In March 1946, Lupachka wrote in a leaflet: We are not a band, as we are called by traitors and degenerate sons of our homeland. We are from Polish cities and villages. We want Poland to be ruled by Poles devoted to the cause and chosen by the whole nation, and people have such people, who also words cannot say out loud, because the UB, together with a few Soviet officers, is watching. That is why we have declared a fight to the death or life to those who, for money, awards or positions at the hands of Soviets, murder the best Poles demanding freedom and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u636	Declaration on cybersecurity in the health sector. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A few days ago, we witnessed a hacker attack on financial institutions. Banking systems have been targeted. However, there is no indication that the criminal's purpose is to collect funds from bank clients' accounts. It can therefore be assumed that, from the point of view of this attack, money is and was safe. The purpose of cyber-attack criminals is likely to be data collected in institutions. It should be noted that hospitals and health establishments may also be a popular target of cyber criminals in the near future. In the medical sphere, interruption may prove to be not only costly but even lethal. Patient sensitive data also play an important role in the medical sector. The health sector has recently been significantly computerized to improve the availability of services. Further facilities are expected, for example in the e-vac system Or an e-recipe. Patient data is stored in the IT systems of hospitals and other medical facilities. In 2015, almost 111 million cyber attacks in the health sector were reported in the United States. In the attack on Anthem, which has been the biggest event of this kind so far, there has been a one-off leak of more than 78 million patients. I ask the High House to take and supervise actions which, as a result of their internal procedures to protect information systems, will contribute to the effective protection of sensitive data of all patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-09-sejm-35-2.u637	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 10 February 2017 at 10 p.m. 11. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 19]]
