ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask you to take your seats at the president's table, and your seats at your desks. We are returning to the second agenda: the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 529 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u2	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At yesterday's meeting, the Commission considered the proposals made during the debate on 28 June 2017 on the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of healthcare professionals and asks the High House to adopt the proposal set out in point I, i.e. the adoption of a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u3	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I remind you that the senators who applied are Senator Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Andrzej Biesiołek, Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Health Committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[I'm sorry, I have to take the card.]] We'll wait, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] [[The culture in our Senate is working...]] And on an ever higher level, Mr. Senator. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 55 for, 26 against. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Anti-drug Act and the Act on Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 536 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the Health Committee at its meeting on 28 June following the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law on the Refund of Drugs, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices, supported the amendment tabled by Senator Włosowicz in the following wording. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1, in Article 1, the following paragraph is added: 33b paragraph 3 is added. 4 is replaced by the following: Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 shall be subject to the availability category referred to in Article. Article 23a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 point 4 of the Law of 6 September 2001. Pharmaceutical Law. The prescription for the prescription medicine referred to in Article. Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1, may not be displayed by a veterinarian. The Commission asks the High House to adopt the law together with the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Jacek Włosowicz still want to speak? Mr. Senator? [[No.]] No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Health Committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 27 for, 52 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the law. The amendment referred to by the senator justifies that the marijuana-containing prescription medications will be issued with a prescription prescription Rpw used for medicinal products containing narcotics or psychotropic substances. The amendment also eliminates the possibility for veterinarians to prescribe marijuana containing marijuana. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 24 against. [[Voting No 4]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Culture and Media have presented a draft resolution in which they apply for the adoption of the law without amendment of Senate print No 534 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 79 were in favour, one abstention. [[Applause]] [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 409 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Filip Libicki to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 77 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Jan Filip Libicki to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the order of the next meeting, scheduled for 12, 13 and 14 July, will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? You're welcome, Senator. Mr Senator Jan Filip Libicki, then Mr Senator Jackowski, then Mr Senator Szymański and Mr Senator Jarosław Rusiecki In that order. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u6	Okay, I'm just gonna get myself a work workshop up here. [[There you go, Mr. Senator. We'll wait.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My senator's statement is addressed to Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł, Minister of Health. At the request of one of my constituents, I would like to ask for a certain interpretation, namely to clarify the issues contained in the regulation of the Minister of Health of 5 August 2016 on specific criteria for the selection of offers in the procedure for the conclusion of health care contracts on the continuity of the provision of services by tenderers. We are dealing with the following situation here. There is a limited partnership which was created as a result of the division of a civil company which is still in operation. A civil company was established in 2011 and in such a state has been operating until now, with a contract with the National Health Fund to a large extent. On 1 February, a limited partnership was separated from it, which is based at the same location as a civil company. In the end, after the contracts have been concluded, the activities of the civil partnership will expire and any obligations to patients will be assumed by this separate limited partnership, so that the same pool of patients will continue to be served in the same area and to the same extent. And the question is this: what will then be the criteria for assessing tenders set out in the regulation on continuity of benefits? In a way, the new bidder will not be new in practice. The benefits will be provided at the same location with the same medical staff who, up to now, provide these services to insured persons in the same area. As you can see, from the point of view of potential patients, only the name of the provider will change. However, the company was not created as a result of the assignment of rights and obligations. That's the interesting aspect of the case. Does the amended company already have several years of experience in the provision of public-funded health care services have to answer a questionnaire question on the day the offer is submitted, because the tenderer is pursuing a contract-based treatment process for the recipients within the scope of the benefits and within the area concerned by the proceedings, whether to answer or not? Such a solution, in the opinion of those who asked me to ask this question, is very harmful, because in fact only the legal form changes here, and patients who are being served will remain de facto under the same care. In outpatient care this can result in a loss of up to 10 points, while as part of hospital treatment one day treatment causes a loss of 4 points. The experience, the high level of qualifications of medical professionals and the smooth cooperation with payers, which this company represents, ensure that insured persons receive benefits in accordance with their rights and, above all, ensure continuity of benefits at the place where they started their treatment, without having to put themselves under stress and seek new healthcare providers. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to explain this issue to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Health. The situation we are talking about concerns a small town where patients are handled efficiently and do not have to drive far, but if it turns out that this interpretation is negative, it may mean a great difficulty in getting to the right medical care. I therefore ask the Minister to interpret my case here, so that the Legal Department may present its opinion in this regard. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three statements. I'm going to the Minister of Health first. My senator's office was visited by representatives of the board of trade unions operating in the Specialist Voivodeship Hospital in Ciechanów. Trade unionists draw attention to the worrying regulations of the Directorates regarding the functioning of this medical facility. Despite the integration of the hospital into the network, which provides permanent funding by the National Health Fund, my interlocutors draw attention to the actions of the Directorates in reducing the number of beds in branches, transferring branches and linking them into branches or even winding them up. Such phenomena concern, for example, the urology and hospice departments. I would therefore ask you to inform me whether these measures do not conflict with the provision of a law whose provisions are intended to provide the necessary health care for patients. Declaration addressed to the Chief Data Protection Officer. My senator's office was visited by residents of housing cooperatives who were appalled by the content of the statements sent to them by certain cooperative boards. It goes on, among other things. about the request for sensitive data, that is information about diseases, addictions, convictions and so on. I therefore ask you to inform me whether the above activities of the cooperative boards do not infringe the Personal Data Protection Act. The third statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. In connection with Marcin P.'s testimony at the hearing of the Amber Gold investigation committee, I kindly request information on whether, at the time when the Civic Platform was formed by the government, LOT's sales were planned and, if so, at what stage and what effect these activities were. Please explain the above point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u9	Thank you, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Anthony Szymanski to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I address my statement to the political class and the media. Radom challenged communist oppression in June 1976. June 2017 in Radom brought sad reflections A hooligan fight doesn't bring glory to anyone. The need to identify the guilty of aggressive actions will not solve the problem of impenetrable, though difficult to understand, political hostility of the people. Personally, I have an irrefutable belief that the special responsibility for holding back the angry and even tribal responses lies with politicians and the media. It is necessary to reflect on the political class, but also on polarized media, on their own role in such events. It is necessary to draw attention to whether the language of confrontation that has been present for years, the frequent disregard of a political competitor, has not contributed to these unpleasant events. Poland is a free country. There is freedom to manifest various beliefs and political concepts in public space. However, taking care of the style in which this is done is just as important as the right to speak loudly. What happened in Radom or happens on Wawel, i.e. blocking the visit by Jarosław Kaczyński to his brother's grave certainly does not create the climate that we wish for in contemporary democratic Poland. If we do not have a strong joint opposition to spinning a spiral of mutual hostility from our environment, such behaviours can spread, and this is a serious threat to Polish democracy. Please, let's tone it down. No matter which side of the political scene is each of us Our language, let's calm our emotions, give each other more respect. Let us also do this for our children and grandchildren, who are watching and from our example learn to live in a pluralistic world. I believe that in our political culture, we can manage evil emotions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u11	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Dr. Konstanty Radziwiłł, on behalf of the environment, which is affected by a burdensome and quite uncomfortable condition. I would like to ask the Minister of Health to take appropriate measures to include a condition called the neurogenic bladder in the Register of Chronic Diseases and, consequently, to introduce a group of medicines used in this disease into the list of reimbursed medicines and to include in medical activities such as bladder lavage. The absence of the above measures, and in particular the failure to include a condition called the neurogenic bladder in the register of chronic diseases, significantly impedes or prevents a large number of people suffering from this condition from taking treatment and restricts their access to modern medicines and treatment techniques. In turn, there is no refund of medicines for this group of patients, and provision of reimbursement for people with the same underlying illness, but other major illness, e.g. multiple sclerosis causes people with a sense of discrimination. The situation of the sick is getting harder every year. This is due not only to the lack of reimbursement of medicines, but also to the increasing difficulty of access to antibiotics for bladder lavage, because not only does there not exist an official medical procedure called bladder lavage, but also these medicines are regularly withdrawn from pharmacies for hospital treatment. Minister, in the interest of a large group of patients, I would ask you to take appropriate measures to include a condition called neurogenic bladder in the Register of Chronic Diseases and, consequently, to introduce a group of medicines used in this disease into the list of refunded medicines, and to include in medical activities such as bladder lavage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u13	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am addressing the Minister of Finance on a matter concerning the holders of housing books. It is a huge crowd of people who, in the past period, before the 1989 changes, put up housing books to ensure, most often, their children, that they receive housing after years of long-term savings on certain amounts of money paid monthly. As you know, as a result of the change in the value of the money, the amounts deposited there lost their value, because the exchange was in the ratio of 1:1000. Unfortunately, it caused this. Contrary to the intentions underlying the creation at that time of the regulations intended to guarantee a certain size of housing and guarantee the real value of the money that was put away... There has been a situation that the amounts that have been deposited on these books correspond to no value of the apartment Although at that time people had already put money into it Only sometimes the value of just a few square meters of living space. Of course, this gives rise to a sense of hurting that I believe is justified. These injuries should be corrected, especially since in relation to other liabilities, where, as a result of the loss of real value of money, there has also been an injury to those who were creditors, introduced in 1990 on the occasion of the amendment of the Civil Code Article. 3581, i.e. a revalorisation of benefits has been introduced, providing that if, as a result of a significant change in the purchasing power of money, the value of the benefit to one party would be disproportionate to the provision of the other party, then the benefits could be revalorised. And here we have the situation that the National Bank of Poland, which deposited this money, is on the one hand a debtor, and on the other hand a privileged party, which collected certain sums of money. On the other side we have owners who, instead of receiving for these sums of money apartments, have the equivalent of several square meters. I know that in the previous term of office, Members of the Law and Justice applied to the Constitutional Tribunal to find that it was incompatible with the constitution of this regulation, which I mentioned in 1990, which introduced the general principle of value-giving monetary benefits, but also introduced an exception that it did not apply to monetary deposits. And the money deposited in the books was treated as cash deposits, and therefore no revalorisation took place. Unfortunately, there is a principle of discounting in proceedings by the Constitutional Tribunal. Since this proposal had not been repeated within six months of the beginning of the new term of office of the Sejm, the Court had to cancel the proceedings in accordance with the rules. And here's the situation. There's a problem to be solved. I think that we should stand up and take care of this, because this applies to the multitude of people who feel hurt. And I have a request to the Minister of Finance to make an observation of what kind of costs it would be and whether it is possible to bear for the budget of the State, or in what time period. The point is to make up for the harm they've suffered, and in accordance with the general principles of the article. 358 Revalorise the amounts they deposited on these books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-29-senat-44-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The fourth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 9 minutes 29]]
