ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Monika Wielichowska, Katarzyna Osos, Arkadiusz Marchewka and Krzysztof Truskolas as secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Monika Wielichowska and Ms Katarzyna Osos. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Katarzyna Osos and Krzysztof Truskolaski. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Economy and Development - h.m. 9, - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 9, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 9.15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.15, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Legal notice - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12.15, - Culture and Media - hour 12.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 16, - Public Finance - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17, - Infrastructure - hour 17, - Senior policy - h.m. 17, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 5:30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 18, - Public Finance - hour. 18, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 19, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 19, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 7:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group on equality and social justice - at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Renewable Energy Team - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: people with visual impairment - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Cluster policy - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Public Media - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Scouting Friends Team - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 16, - Parliamentary Friends' Team of the Royal City of Sandomierz - hour. 16, - Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture - h.m. 19.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u3	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act, - to amend certain laws in connection with the implementation of the programme. The reports shall be printed in 1646 and 1642 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between working life and private parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Bożena Kamińska, Tomasz Cimoszewicz and Gabriel Lenartowicz from the Civic Platform on tree cutting in the Białowieża Forest. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. The first question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kaminska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u4	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Białowieża Forest is the only Polish natural object on the UNESCO World Heritage List. It is a unique place, the last lowland natural forest in Europe, which is a refuge for many species of plants and animals that can no longer be found anywhere else. There is currently a massive logging of trees in the forest. The pretext for the current tree clipping is the periodic mass appearance of the printer bark. The idea of combating bark in the forest by increasing the cutting of trees is negatively assessed by both environmental organisations and scientists from 14 Polish universities and research institutions, including the Scientific Council of the Białowieża National Park, the National Council for Nature Conservation and the Nature Conservation Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences. It is also disturbing not to enter the Białowieża Forest. In particular, I am referring to people who derive income from tourism in this area. The prohibition of entry into the forest has had an impact on the decline in earnings of the majority of Białowieża residents, in particular since the start of the tourist season. I have questions for the Minister in this area. Why, Minister, do you not respect the opinion of the world of science and do not allow for a substantive debate with scientists, nor do you allow scientists to enter the Białowieża Forest? They are not a threat. And I have another question: How long will the ban on entering the Białowieża Forest last? It is also worrying to increase the plan of the forest installation from 40 thousand. M? Up to 160 thousand. m? I have a question: How many trees [[♪ The bell ♪]] This plan was cut out for today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u5	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Minister of Environment, Minister Jan Szyszko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I wanted to thank you very much for the questions asked, because I think it's time to explain a lot of disinformation that appears all over the world here in the Parliament hall. Let me start by saying that the Białowieża Forest on the Polish side currently counts about 60,000. Ha, of which 10,000. ha occupies a national park, and about 50,000. ha three economics: Browsk, Hajnówka and Białowieża. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that the Białowieża Forest is one of the best historically documented objects in terms of the history of use. The oldest maps of use, they are also published, are from the 16th century, but also previously the forest was used depending on the stage in which the Polish state was developing, in which state of economic development. I also want to say that at some point we started shooting the forest, and I wanted to show you the first photos of what it looked like during the First War, after World War I, as well as after World War II. You can see how this forest is used, among others. by foreign companies, first connected with the system of Western assailants, then the Eastern ones. You have examples of recent activities, but photographically documented. This picture, this is the '20s, the first one, shows a one-century tree growing in the back, which is cut out, among others. for use. I don't have time, but I think we're gonna be discussing this. Ladies and gentlemen, you have yet a unique map made in infrared systems, where you have straight lines in the Białowieża Forest. Nature hates straight lines. And now it's exactly 2007. This is what our stands looked like in 2007, beautiful stands with documented history, made by the hand of a man, even with records in the plans of the forest device, who planted them. Ladies and gentlemen, these stands were vibrant and these stands were part of Natura 2000. And it is, as you mentioned, the year 2007, the acquisition from these ripening stands, which reached their age, was 140 thousand. When the Natura 2000 sites were designated. I would also like to say that the designation of Natura 2000 sites is the law in force in the European Union. We've designated areas, we've designated habitats. We have habitats there for species and these habitats should not disappear. This was the case before the political decisions in 2011 reduced the acquisition of trees that ripened from 140 thousand. M? Forty-six thousand. m? And what happened? The assimilation apparatus no longer functions as a pump and you have a situation: if the level of groundwater was high - I cordially invite you to the wilderness - you have flooded areas where the tree stand disappeared, species died along with the tree stand and, of course, habitats died. Duty of Poland - repair. You have a second situation, namely low level of groundwater. This is how the stands started to look, then these stands turned into such a system, and eventually they turn into grass bands, so we have again the disappearance of priority habitats from the point of view of the European Union, as well as the disappearance of species associated with these trees. It's 2014. Breaking the law - the case is in the prosecutor's office - this object was entered on the UNESCO list of natural heritage, not cultural and natural heritage, but natural heritage, as untouched by the hand of man in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have this kind of situation: on the one hand, European Union law, which says: you must defend the habitats and species present there, and on the other hand, we have UNESCO, which says: untouched by the hand of man and therefore must not use it. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing about this? We are doing what could have been done. We have an inventory across the Białowieża Forest - this inventory costs PLN 5 million - and we say this: we have a national park that we monitor, we look at what happened compared to what is in the developed area, then we have a reference zone where we do nothing, but we observe - it is 17,000. Ha-and 34,000. Ha, we're starting to fix this situation. I would like to say now: you have species that are extremely important from the point of view of priority species, you have their location on the ground. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on 1,400 research areas and we have an observation of how this habitat system changes when we do remedial action, how it changes, when we do nothing, and how it looks in the Białowieża National Park. Please, this is the last photo - you have now unearthed these straight lines. These unearthed straight lines are nothing more than stones put together by the people already pretty a few hundred years ago, when they were used also agriculturally. They're coppers. Ladies and gentlemen! So much for the answer right now. I can only say that we are talking about a debate, but I think I will have three more minutes to respond to that. Thanks again for putting the case up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u7	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have prepared specific questions today, but I see that we have a permanent strategy for the Minister's information policy, which is moss stories and ferns instead of a precise answer to questions. This practice is still being applied, because it is applied to the European Commission, which is worried, like UNESCO, Minister - and there is no contradiction, on the contrary - about what decisions and what is made in the State Forests. Similarly, it does not respond or respond entirely to the list of the best scientists in the world who were sitting at the second international forest conference in Germany, which scientists call on the Minister as if to return to earth, to return to the scientific reality and to deny the obvious facts, as in the interview on the barker, which was conducted with the best expert, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Professor Martin Schroeder of the Swedish University of Agriculture in Uppsala, who completely denied, like everyone else, the methods used by the State Forests. In addition, I wanted to ask you how much money you've earned from this, because cutting down and moving dead trees with a barker doesn't make any sense, and what it looks like, among other things. I know, too. She looks just like the Minister said here: like an economic forest, like a plantation, not like a security facility. [[Time.]] Yes, it is the fact that forests are a plantation, they are economic, but not Białowieża Forest, not protected areas or by UNESCO as part of the world heritage...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u9	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u10	...be a natural area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u11	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u12	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no time for diwags, here is the time for dialogue and for this reason the experimental object has been activated. You have the data of 60,000. ha on 1450 areas where there are specific species, specific habitats, European Union and UNESCO law. One-third of this well-developed forest is left behind as the great scientists you have mentioned here theoretically wish. Very common Great scientists have never seen the Białowieża Forest in their lives, and they tell a lot about it. For this reason, this programme and what I am telling you have been sent to all environmental ministers in the world asking for participation - participation in observations, participation in dialogue as well. Each of these experimental surfaces has a film. You have to enter, click and see what this stand looks like, what happened in this tree stand, and at the same time see what species occur there at the moment and what species will occur next year, in 2 years, in 3 years, in 5 years. Returning to specialists, I would like to say - I spoke about this at the last Council of Ministers of Europe's environment, where I also presented this whole programme, encouraging people to dialogue, to come and to observe - that more than 200 excellent specialists from various fields of natural sciences took part in this inventory, including deep-seated experts, ornithologists, phytosociologists and entomologists who reported thousands of hundreds of species there. And we have maps. And now, honourable Member, you can also subscribe to those who are either for one concept or for the other, either for the UNESCO concept, or for the concept of respecting European Union law that we need to protect and restore habitats and species that have been destroyed there. [[What's bothering the Commission?]] Wait a minute. And I also want to tell you that there's an economic analysis going on how much it costs. Then it will also be determined not only where the species died, but also how much it costs, how much it costs... [[And how much will Poland pay?]] ...the return of these species. There is also an analysis of carbon dioxide emissions, because it is extremely accurately measured, because it is important from the point of view of the climate convention. And the climate convention and the Paris agreement at the moment say: unite activities in this direction to use absorption to protect species. Otherwise, you won't protect the species. And this experiment is also planned. So, by the end of the day, I'd like to say to you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure you're... [[How long will there be a ban on entering the forest?]] ...you have the opportunity at the moment to say which side you are on, which method you are more comfortable with. And the discussion is conducted at global level, authentically at global level. Today we will also start a meeting of ambassadors of countries accredited in Poland in the Białowieża Forest, where we will talk again with these ambassadors about the state of the forest and how to create spatial layouts so that specific species of plants and animals are present. Once again, your marshal, we have 2/3 of the area where we are bound by European Union law to recreate habitats and species that were designated in 2007 as species within the Natura 2000 network. And in 2014, when breaking the law, and this case is already in the prosecution's office, this object was in some sense reported as a natural heritage. And this is not a natural heritage, this is a cultural and natural heritage. The forest can be spoken of in the wilderness, in specific areas, on the basis of specific materials in the company of the people who managed these forests, including taking into account such evidence as a monument in the cemetery in Hajnówka with the inscription "I planted this forest." And this woman was 104 years old. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u13	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to question two. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Olszówka, Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Mr Wojciech Buczak, the Law and Justice Club, on the construction of the National Education Network - to the Minister of Digitization. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Olszówka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u14	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to ask a very short question about digital Poland, and specifically about fast Internet in rural areas. The plans are that there will be a high-speed Internet in rural schools, and I would like to ask whether society will also have access to this high-speed Internet. And an extra question. I would like to ask you something, because such a hearing is that the skeletons of the high-speed Internet network are leased by companies that are only interested in larger cities or settlements, and when it comes to these skeletons in small towns, it is ignored. I'd like to ask you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u15	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, Mr Marek Zagórski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The elimination of white spots, because it is really the subject of this question, is one of the priority tasks of the Ministry of Digitalization. It is implemented primarily on the basis of the Operational Programme of the Digital Poland, under which further recruitments are carried out, whereby telecommunications operators can obtain funding for the construction of broadband networks aimed primarily at residents. And the long-term objective of this action is to cover the whole of Poland in such a way that this access for all inhabitants of the Republic is ensured. Right now, we're after the second contest. We're gonna be signing contracts tomorrow with the telecommunications operators who won this contest. And on that basis, we're going to have about 60%. NUTS which were selected for the construction of the network, developed. The next will be carried out on the basis of another call, which will be carried out immediately after an analysis of the detailed situation in those areas where either operators have not reported or the operators have failed to comply with the formal requirements. As regards the issue of what is profitable, what is not profitable, this project is generally carried out for those entities which would not be interested in building the network on purely commercial terms. And that's what funding is for. The Novum that we have introduced, and which will additionally provide access to the smallest towns, is an obligation to connect all schools in the competition areas, literally all schools with 100 Mbps broadband fibre, which will result in the provision of further services by these operators, because - I will say it so simply - if they have a fiber optic lead to small towns and schools are in very different towns, then this basic skeleton will be created. In order to make it more attractive and to make this realization and connection so that this fiber can reach as many towns as possible and given the needs of modernization of the Polish school, on 13 June we made a decision - I am talking about the government - the Council of Ministers has adopted a resolution on the construction of the National Education Network - 100 Mega on the 100th anniversary of the Polish State. As part of this decision, under this resolution, the government committed itself to providing access to the Internet to all schools in Poland. It is about broadband Internet access with a capacity of at least 100 Mbps. Importantly, this service will be offered to schools free of charge. To this end, we are preparing a draft law which will be addressed to the public consultation in July this year. We assume that in September this project will go to the meeting of the High House. As I said, on the one hand, it is intended to make this project more attractive from a business point of view, because, where it is not profitable, we will ensure constant reception of the signal, that is, this investment will be profitable, but on the other hand, the most important goal for us in the case of OSE is to modernise the Polish school, to provide access to digital services at an equal level to all institutions in Poland regardless of their location. We assume that OSE will be built in the next 3 years and thus broadband Internet will be delivered to all schools in 19.5 thousand. location. It will by force create a network that can later be used for other purposes, but this is a matter of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Wojciech Buczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Additional question. We know that in Eastern Poland a skeletal network was built as part of the implementation of the broadband Internet programme in Eastern Poland. 10,000 were built. One kilometer of such a network. Question: "How will it be used in this project on the educational Internet?" How will they fall out against the rest of the country of the eastern Poland voivodship? Will this network that has already been built decisively help to secure services better?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u19	You're welcome. The next question - time has been divided - is asked by Jerzy Bielecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You mentioned the implementation of the National Education Network and the announced second call for action 1.1 The Operational Programme - Poland digital. I would like to ask what the situation of the Lublin Voivodeship is, because as far as I know, there are seven areas in the Lublin Voivodeship, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and only one of them reported to the operator. What is the Ministry going to do to make it even in the Lublin Voivodeship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u21	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Mr Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Answer to the first question: we intend to use existing infrastructure as far as possible, including the infrastructure of regional broadband networks, including from Podlaskie voivodship and other voivodships. We are in constant contact with the marshals of five voivodships who declared their willingness to cooperate closely. It is no secret that regional broadband networks are in a difficult situation, including financial ones. When these investments were started in the previous programming period, the basis or assumptions of this project were not precisely or well thought out. We estimate that at least in these five voivodships we will either lease or use ORSS infrastructure in another system for the needs of the National Education Network. We assume that this use will reduce the costs of planned investments in OSE by at least 15% , probably more. This lack of use is evidenced by the fact that we have such situations that the node is located in a school that is not connected to the Internet, it is the ORSS node... I mean, the dashboard is installed at school, but this school doesn't use the Internet, it's not connected. We have a lot of situations like this. In Podlaskie Voivodeship there are about 600 schools located less than 1 km from the network and they are not connected, so it shows here that it does not work and we need to improve it. As far as the situation in Lublin Voivodeship is concerned, as I said, we will reiterate this call and, above all, analyse the reasons why operators have not volunteered in some places. It goes on, among other things. about the Lublin Voivodeship. It's been a while since we saw that we were gonna have a problem there. Why did this happen? Perhaps we will decide to change the boundaries of these areas, divide them into smaller pieces so that smaller telecom operators can join this project. If it turns out that this still doesn't work, we'll be looking for backup solutions, and we'll involve a public body to build this network. Surely, as far as the nationwide educational network is concerned, we will do everything to ensure that all schools are connected, mainly through commercial operators, and if not, the OSE operator, which will be indicated in the Act, will have the task of joining at least educational units. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the third question. The question is asked by Members Paweł Szramka and Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15, on the government's plans for the owner of technology to receive the highest quality gallium nitride crystals, i.e. Ammono SA, and in particular plans to prevent the sale of that entity, patents and laboratory equipment to a foreign entity. The question is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Development and Finance. Please, the first question is asked by Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u24	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We have a question. We have asked this question before in the interpellation, while the answer we received was very laconic and basically incomplete, and that is why we have decided to do this form of questioning, one can say once again, although the picture of Ammono's situation has changed slightly, hence our question about plans not only of the ministry, but of the government in general regarding Ammono. Do you have information that one of the companies of the Treasury - and we know that they were interested and audited - was preparing to buy Ammono not only for its temporary maintenance but also for the development of the technology of obtaining gallium nitride? Yesterday's information we received from the syndicate is that the Ministry intends to finance the Institute of High Pressures of the State Academy of Sciences in order to extend the operation of this plant in the lease for the next six months. The question is, do we spend this money only to extend, you can say, the agony of this plant for another six months, because the company has repeatedly addressed the ministries, the government, except that such a temporary maintenance does not make sense, because in this way it will not start to generate income. First of all, you need to invest in technology development, so the question is whether the Ministry knows Ammono's investment plans and how it evaluates their reality. Whether the Institute of High Pressures of the State Academy of Sciences will be the entity that will be a long-term tenant, not a tenant, but also an investor, or is it just a temporary sort of patch [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the operation of this company? Do you know the valuation of this company? We know that the Japanese company Nichia invested over PLN 120 million in the company Ammono over a dozen years ago. At the moment the valuation of this company is at the level of PLN 20 million, there is virtually no reliable valuation. Can we know such a valuation if you have it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u25	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In answer to the question about Ammon, maybe I'll start with the last part about the accuracy of the valuation. I do not even know on what basis the honourable Member claims that the valuation has so far been carried out an unreliable valuation. We eat the one that is actually prepared in the light of the law, in the most reliable way, and it is, as the Member has said, recently at the level of twenty-six million PLN, less than 25 million. But when we really answer about technology, because this technology we've been looking at, and we've been looking at it for about a year and a half, it's certainly that the potential for the use of gallium nitride monocrystals in complex electronic technologies is undoubtedly something of great interest. At the same time, it is worth noting that at this point in time, where we are today in terms of the development of this technology, this technology is strictly research-level, we have the opportunity to move from research to commercialization. This is still a process, as those who do so say, so the Institute of High Pressures, also mentioned by the Member, is the horizon of 10 years perhaps. It is not a matter of a year or a half a year, but a question of many years, this is also mentioned by the authors of technologies with which we are in constant contact, and therefore there is still a long way to go to manufacturing on an industrial scale. Surely this cannot be done on the basis of this plant or within those devices that are simply in Ammono today. The distinction of professional electronics in the strategy of responsible development also proves that we are interested in the development of this technology as well, but the key in this matter is the return of Ammono to a dynamic development path with the support of a reliable, strong entity so that there is no uncontrolled transfer of technology, and that is of course what we are interested in, so we referred as the Ministry of Development a letter to the District Court for m.st. Warsaw, to the Commercial Department for Bankruptcy Affairs with a request to interrupt Ammono's sales procedure and to moderate the search for such an entity. At the same time, we have ordered an expert study at the National Centre for Research and Development, which is intended to allow us to examine the possibility of total or partial financing the purchase of Ammono by government agencies or companies in the State Treasury domain. At the same time, for example, in the last year such a study for example. patent purity and the possibility of applying the length of time to commercialisation has also been carried out by the Grupa Azoty and these studies have not been sufficiently favourable for the Grupa Azoty to decide to participate in the acquisition of this entity. However, we do not yet suspend our efforts in this area. Hence this request and this letter to the court to drop the case. The standardization of company status will increase the dynamics of work, of course, over the production of gallium nitride monocrystals. We are trying to fully support this process by agreeing with what the Member has said, that the six-month issue is not a problem that solves, but we need it because, for example, we need it. one of the companies, at the moment wishing to enter into this seriously, needs certain guarantees in terms of asset security. Until then, all documents have not yet been collected by the High Pressure Institute, which is essential if we are talking about commercialisation. Ammono itself, as I said, is unable to cope with the further process of research today, is an inseparable symbiosis between the High Pressure Institute and Ammono. Hence, it is six months, which we treat not as a solution to the problem, but as the time necessary to complete the necessary process. With regard to certain production purposes, which are designated and such an objective is e.g. Bringing a 3 inch gallium nitride substrate into production is yet, as I say, related to this long, long distance and requires many, many R &amp; D work. Moreover, these works have been outlined in one of the projects submitted by the High Pressure Institute under the "Techmatstrateg" programme at the National Centre for Research and Development. But, as I say, the road to commercialization is still long before this company. Let me repeat: realizing the critical importance of this technology, we are making every effort to ensure that the substance in Ammon is not dispersed. And the information we have from March 2017: all high-performance pressure autoclaves on the equipment of the plant, in which this controlled growth of monocrystals takes place, are working according to the planned schedule. At the moment, what they produce are the foundations for the research needs of the Institute of High Pressures, also exported to other non-commercial research institutes in Europe. So, in summary, we are aware of the potential of Ammon. We're doing our best. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to find a business partner, because this is now necessary so that the commercialization process can actually take place. But for this to happen, it needs to be settled, conditions must be created to run the financial line. It is therefore a question of credit. Hence, it is half a year, which is not a solution to the problem, but sometimes to meet these necessary conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u27	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mr Paweł Szramka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u28	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We also want to ask whether the Ministry of Development is in contact with the Ministry of National Defence and whether you are talking about the future of Ammono, whether you know the results of the audit of PGZ, because we have not received any information on this matter after the interpellation sent by us. Such a simple question: Can Poland afford to lose the company, which innovatively offers us a product, by many specialists considered necessary in the future in the production of equipment also important due to the defence of the country? We have information that Ammono's takeover is very interested in the Russian side. I hope the government side is aware of that. More than 100 million have been invested in the company, as a colleague has already mentioned, and it seems that uneconomic behaviour will be putting all this into foreign hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u29	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Ms Jadwiga Emilewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u30	Yes, sir, we're in contact with the PGZ. And when that audit was done... I personally moderated the meeting of the Azota Group with the Polish Armed Group in order to try, perhaps within such a consortium, to find a way to invest in Ammon. I don't know what the effect of a separate audit is. As I say, I know the results of the analysis made by the Grupa Azota, I do not know what is the effect of assessing technological purity, patent purity, self-assessment of the Polish Armed Group. But we're actually in touch. We're hoping it'll be this area of business for the next six months. We are buying time at the moment, it will be another moment to talk to the Polish Armed Group as well. And let me repeat once again that this period, which is now, for commercialization, is still a long-term investment without any promise of obtaining security guarantees or technology development. What Ammono is currently giving us is actually meeting the research needs of various research centres in Poland and Europe. Hence the difficulty in taking risks on the part of commercial operators. But we will, as I say, also encourage by involving one of the actors I am not mentioning here today, but who is closest to this process of finalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Mieczysław Kasprzak and Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, on the plan to introduce basic health benefits - to the Minister of Health. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft amendment to the Act on Medicinal Activities provides that patients will be able to pay fees for services provided in public institutions, in public hospitals. It's very disturbing. This raises great concern because it will lead to patient segregation. Those who can afford money will be treated first. Those who can't afford it will be moved to the end of the line. This is unacceptable, such crazy ideas will certainly not be accepted by society. We are surprised that the PiS, who promised to shorten the queues, that health care will be free, is able to introduce such crazy ideas. Even among representatives of the PiS in the government, it is the Polish People's Party that has always been in favour of the free health service in Poland... And the PiS supported our actions, managed to keep it up for many years, and today he's looking for money in private pockets. Today hospitals are in a very difficult financial situation. In Podkarpacie, the debt of marshal hospitals is already about PLN 0.5 billion. The hospital in Przemyśl, as the press writes, is already bankrupt and looking for such ideas to recapitalize hospitals to help them, this is a bad idea, Minister, hence our questions and our anxiety. Like those Poles who can't afford treatment, who can't pay extra fees, they're gonna be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Smell it? How does the government plan to fund health care by pulling extra money out of private pockets? Because it's looking for money and sharing Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u34	Ladies and gentlemen! The answer to the first question is very short. Polish patients will be able to treat themselves as they have been, on the same basis in the future. so far, i.e. to the same extent benefit from guaranteed benefits which are financed by public funds. The change proposed by us absolutely does not affect any rights of patients who may have benefits financed by the NFZ, so that this does not apply to the current situation. Everything that has happened now will continue. This proposal was intended only to equalise opportunities between public and non-public actors. The current situation is as follows: a non-public entity or a medicinal entity that is an entrepreneur may both provide those benefits which are financed by a public payer, i.e. the NFZ, and can be partly co-financed by private funds or private benefits. And if the same hospital, which is not an entrepreneur, or a SPOZ, stands next to such a healthcare provider, he cannot provide benefits for payment. After all, no one tells patients to go there and buy private benefits. This is just giving an opportunity to equalise opportunities between public and private establishments, and for patients it is also giving an opportunity to buy out certain diagnostic or therapeutic benefits in certain specific situations. This absolutely does not affect the current status of patients' privileges. On the other hand, as regards the answer to the second question, I would like to say that the financing of health care is quite precisely governed by the provisions of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, which is a very old law, which has been amended several times. Commercial benefits provided by various medicinal entities, i.e. independent public health establishments are implemented on a voluntary basis, so no one will draw from patients, no one will demand, no one will pressure patients to buy these benefits. If the patient wishes and, as stated in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, under certain precisely defined conditions, through separate staff, separate potential, these benefits can take place in a separate period of time. So there's absolutely no talking about getting any money out of patients. According to the draft law amending the Law on medicinal activities and certain other legislations, patients will be able to benefit from paid health benefits in a public entity, if it proposes such services. It is not an obligation that every OPA will put up a price list and say: please, I want to provide these services. If the hospital's got enough potential... Let's remember that according to the policy paper-making average beds in our country it is about 74% So you could say that 1/4 of the beds are empty, the potential is huge. Therefore, why not develop this potential? If operating rooms, which cost a lot, tens, hundreds of millions on a national scale, work until hours. 14, 15, then why couldn't these halls work this afternoon on weekends if someone wanted to buy a benefit there? The public healthcare provider, who could offer such benefits, should organise the provision of benefits in such a way that there is no restriction on access to the health benefits covered by the contract with the National Health Fund or the change in the conditions for its implementation, i.e. it must, as I said, ensure the separation of staff, equipment, premises necessary for the implementation of benefits and sources of funding, and prevent the rights of persons on waiting lists from being violated. The NFZ, as a party to a public-funded health care contract under the above-mentioned law, may review the performance of the contract and, in particular, verify that patients are not charged undue fees. The collection of undue charges shall be governed by Article. Paragraph 193 (4) of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and § Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (1) (a) c Annex to the Regulation of the Minister for Health of 8 September 2015 on the general terms and conditions of health care contracts. According to Art. 193 point 4 of the Act on public-funded healthcare provision: who collects an undue charge on insured persons for benefits covered by a contract with a healthcare fund, is fined, i.e. the sanctioning of irregular practices in the current legal order is very strong. The supervision of possible inappropriate practices on the part of SPOZs, which would like to force patients to buy commercial benefits, is described very closely. It may be subject to very strict control. So here we don't see the danger of creating, I don't know, the pressure on patients to choose benefits paid instead of benefits to which they are authorised as part of insurance with the National Health Fund. As regards the doubts as to the compatibility of the proposed provisions with the Constitution, we would like to inform you that there are two paragraphs of the Constitution on the compatibility of the charging of patients for health services: the provisions of the Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2. According to the first one, everyone has the right to health protection, but it is such a generally formulated provision that it indicates that every person is the subject of this right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This provision should be read in the context of Article. 30, i.e. the right to health protection concerns fundamental rights, i.e. dignity. In view of the above, each person should have the right to take any action within the limits of the law that allows him to exercise those powers. So the right of the patient is that he will be able to buy benefits with his money if he has to. This is the exercise of the right of the patient, not the imposition of the need to buy commercial benefits for patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u35	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Apart from the social aspect and feeling, we are moving towards, as the Minister said, in order to improve the situation of hospitals. We're not thinking about improving the patient's situation here. On the other hand, when it comes to reconciling these issues, we still do not know how this will be done, how we will reconcile the provision of full-paid services in one hospital with the provision of services financed by the National Health Fund. We've been talking and we're talking about shortening the queues. I don't think there's gonna be a cut in the queues, because medical facilities, hospitals, they're gonna be defending themselves from over-executions, the financing of which, as we know, was in practice a lot of trouble. Therefore, the list of pending operations financed by the National Fund will be increasing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing: in the election campaign, which PiS is so eager to call on, there was talk of school care, medical offices and dental offices. Is there any chance they're going back to school in this term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, will answer the question again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u38	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As far as these doubts are concerned, as I said, the justification of the law in a short way, as it is at the level of the justification of the law, says that there must be appropriate conditions for the implementation of these possible commercial benefits. Thus, the SPOZ must ensure the separation of staff, equipment, premises necessary for the implementation of funding sources, and must prevent violations of the rights of persons on waiting lists for health care provision. We're talking about the bill. Where specific provisions are required, the law may grant delegations and delegate delegations to implementing acts, i.e. at the level of the regulations of the Minister of Health, which may continue to be the basis for ordering the President of the National Health Fund. The details of these elements, these conditions for the provision of benefits, are therefore absolutely ahead of us. So far we have started, as you can see, a very exciting discussion about legitimacy, about the risks involved and this discussion will continue. We wanted to give patients the opportunity, the opportunity to exercise their constitutional rights and at the same time equal opportunities between the SPOZ and the company of commercial law, also a fully self-government company, i.e. fully public authority. So that when it comes to all kinds of concerns about potential threats that we can imagine that some dishonest directors will be able, as you said, to try to steer in such a way the acceptance or delivery of benefits, or the order of benefits, or to stick to... We are just before the start of the hospital network, where each hospital will receive a lump sum per cent of its core business. As a recent hospital director, I can't imagine even having a lump sum, restricting patients' access just so they don't spend more than a lump sum. This is beyond my comprehension, and I think any honest hospital director will treat it the same way. It is also a test for the functioning of the hospital, whether this hospital is really that good and will have an adequate number of patients wanting to treat it, and it must be remembered that the lump sum in the hospital network law or the regulations to the law is calculated on the basis of full implementation for 2015, i.e. it will be much more, i.e. approx. 15 and 25% more than in the basic contract. Therefore, this money will be significantly greater in crying and you will need to really convince patients to want to treat themselves in this hospital. So, all the more reason why I don't see the danger of having more money at my disposal and the need to use it on [[♪ The bell ♪]] the performance of benefits as an obligation of a network hospital to conduct the queue in any artificial way in order to withdraw money for commercial benefits and to limit the provision of basic benefits on a lump sum basis. On the other hand, I would like to say briefly that the last eight years have shown that it is not a simple problem to restore what has fallen, namely school medicine. We are working on both of these elements, i.e. both dental offices and medical offices in schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The fifth question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, Jarosław Gonciarz, Waldemar Andzel and Dariusz Starzycki from Law and Justice on the prospects for development of Polish electric buses in the E-Bus consortium - to the Minister for Development. Mr Gawron is the first question to be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Electromobility is an opportunity for the Polish economy, but also a chance for cleaner air in Polish cities. The construction plans of the first Polish electric bus are quite advanced and are real, although already Polish companies produce electric buses, which are sold on the Polish market and even on foreign markets. But perhaps the biggest challenge is that the basic components of this bus are produced in Poland - inverters, batteries or drive systems. In June the E-Bus consortium was established, the initiator of which was Ursus. I know that a similar initiative was also introduced earlier by Solaris. How would the Minister say: What concrete steps does the Ministry take to create the first Polish electric bus? And can you give the minister an approximate date when this prototype will arise?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u41	You're welcome. The question is also asked by Mr Dariusz Starzycki, also from the club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The development of the electromobility sector in Poland is one of the key projects recorded in the Strategy for responsible development. At the beginning of the year, under the E-Bus programme, the government launched cooperation on the development of electromobility by signing letters of intent with local governments. Among other things, my home town Jaworzno is one of the leaders in implementing electromobility in public transport. In this connection, I have a question about which national programmes and how local governments planning to buy electric buses will be able to benefit in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u43	Thank you very much, sir. She answers the questions of Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Ms Jadwiga Emilewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the electromobility development programme is one of the flagship programs recorded in the.Strategy for responsible development, and as part of the broadly understood electromobility it is about electric development or, as we often say, non-carbon public transport, because today we are talking about electric buses, and in the future maybe the drives will be hydrogen or it will be something other than today's lithium-ion batteries. As you have said, we are already leaders in the production of public transport. The Polish electric bus last year was awarded with a prestigious award at the prestigious public transport fairs, buses in Hannover. This is why we attach such a great deal of importance to this, hence also the global trend that we see in Europe, in which the next cities announce further tenders for the replacement of the bus fleet with a traditional diesel drive for such an electric drive. What instruments, because that's what you asked... As regards the second question - indeed 41 Polish cities, including Jaworzno, signed letters of intent on the development of electromobility at the end of February. Interestingly, I think, and interesting, among them are both the largest cities, which firstly have public transport, and secondly, some of them already have electric transport, as well as small cities, much smaller than Jaworzna, which for example. they do not have public transport at all, but they want to develop it in their area administered by local authorities. It also showed us the potential that exists, and how big our own market is with regard to this production, because if all these operators that have come forward by 2020, we would have had a market of 1 000 for electric buses by 2020. buses produced annually if we wanted to replace them all. This is indeed a great deal, because these two companies mentioned by your fellow Members produce between 300 and 600 units each year on average today. Indeed, the ambition is that the value chain in such a vehicle should be generated as much as possible by Polish subsuppliers, such are our ambitions, hence the two types of public intervention and the measures that you asked for. Firstly, it is about R &amp; D development, because if we are currently looking at electric buses, these are produced in Poland today on the basis of traditional bus construction. In the case of electric vehicles, these new, modern drives, the total mass of such a vehicle is important, i.e. The entire base structure should be changed. But of course there are also a lot of threads about energy management in the middle, hence this area of research and development. Therefore, there will be a first pilot competition organized by the National Centre for Research and Development in the so-called. the DARPA model, i.e. the model of the US defence agency, which asks the question to which you are looking for answers, and this answer is to be provided by scientific and research consortia. Interestingly, here at the same time the recipient is indicated. So many of the cities with which we signed the letters of intent at the same time declare that if a product is developed that will meet the parameters that the cities indicate and will cost no more than - the amount is also indicated, because such a product, the electric bus today is produced twice as expensive as the so-called. Euro 6 is the latest diesel model - it will then buy a certain amount of it. This is also the application of the new model of Public Procurement Law, which was amended last year so-called. Innovation partnerships. We have four cities that have already signed a contract with the NCBR. We hope that by the end of July this competition will be announced, and we assume that the solution, i.e. prototypes that will go out into the streets of cities, will appear at the beginning of 2019. After discussions with research teams and bus manufacturers, such a time horizon was defined. This applies, as I say, to products that are not physically present on the streets, not only in Polish cities. At the same time, in order to support and build this market, we are taking two more initiatives, one financial one, one legislative one. Legislative is a law on the development of electromobility, where together with the Ministry of Energy we have prepared a whole range of solutions related not only to supporting the development of electromobility, but also to the expansion of the energy network, because it is necessary for electromobility to actually develop, we have also provided some advantages for those who will benefit from electric transport, and allowing it to indicate the possibility of legally creating emission-free zones in cities. So this is the legislative issue. The bill is currently in an inter-ministerial consultation. On the other hand, on the issue of current financial support, we end up with a national environmental fund developing criteria for the competition to obtain support for current purchases, i.e. Since September, the cities will be able to apply for a national environmental fund with their rolling stock exchange projects. The first ones will be funds of PLN 200 million. We hope that these are the measures that will allow, rather to those cities that already have such rolling stock in their home, to plan purchases by 2019 when a product is already significantly cheaper than those that are available today on the market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. And please, the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u46	Dear Marshal! Minister! When it comes to the range of e-buses, the e-bus can reach a distance of up to 400 km as part of urban driving, if it uses fast recharges. Without a quick recharging, this route can reach up to 160 km or so. I wanted to ask you about the e-bus charging stations in the municipalities. What will be the practical aspects of planning and installation of charging infrastructure in cities? This is also the preparation of the environment for the operation of a new type of companies offering fast battery charging services. Will local authorities be able to expect support in this regard? And whether the Ministry provides for an appropriate package of legislative changes, I will no longer ask, because you have previously answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u47	Thank you very much. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u48	Like I said, the charging infrastructure is crucial because we can have a great product, but we won't have a place to load it. Last time I saw it was in Warsaw on the street. Spartan is a place where there's a charging point on the loop. In those cities that have electric buses, such charging infrastructure actually appears. In the draft law that I mentioned earlier, we have a record - this is our proposal, the Ministry of Development, we also have a dialogue with the Ministry of Finance, I hope it will be a quick dialogue - about increasing the special grant for local government units, because we impose an obligation on local governments, because local governments will answer, and they will be responsible for charging infrastructure where it is. Thus, there is a provision to increase subsidies for local authorities in order to enable them to set up such charging infrastructure. At the same time, the Act on the promotion of electromobility contains a provision on exemption from the need to obtain a building permit in case of building a charging station - not only for public transport vehicles, but also those so-called. poles, i.e. those from which electric cars are loaded. This is also a proposal enshrined in the Act to shorten the time needed to make this infrastructure appear. Thus, as I say, legislative facilitation for infrastructure construction and, at the same time, resources for local government units from the budget so that they can bear the issue of charging infrastructure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Let's move on to question six. Ms Krystyna Szumilas and Ms Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform, on the dismissal of teachers and the reduction of teaching staff from 1 September 2017 in connection with the introduction of education reform and the lack of job offers for teachers being fired. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. The first question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Shumilas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister, I have a riddle. Who said these words: No teacher will lose his job in connection with the reform? These words were said by Minister Zalewska on 18 January 2017 in one of the radio stations, and on 30 March 2017 Minister Machalek, present in the TV broadcast, repeated this. That's not true. You promised teachers that they would not lose their jobs, while the Polish Teachers Association collected data from schools, from documents prepared by school directors, approved curators, and evaluated trade unions, organizational projects, and on the basis of these documents provided information that almost 10,000. teachers will meet their students at school for the last time on Friday. They're just not gonna be working in these schools since September. They either got a notice or they didn't get extended their employment contracts. And over 21,000. teachers will have limited posts. What's a limited job? Well, these teachers aren't gonna have a full-time job, they're gonna be working half-time, and there are cases of 4/18. This means reducing the remuneration of these teachers, because if they do not work full-time, they will also earn less from September, in proportion to the part of the work they will have. Half a job for e.g. The contract teacher is a salary lower than the minimum wage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can you look your teachers in the eye today, and what do you have to offer those teachers who either have no job or lose part of their job?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u51	Thank you very much, Member. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret to say that in an unauthorized, unreliable way, data is shared that do not reflect reality. These are widespread information that brings anxiety, messes, chaos. It is worth ordering the facts and it is worth talking about what is actually happening. Everyone who worked in education and already performed high functions in it, e.g. Minister, he knows this well, that for today, it is impossible to determine what is the employment at school. Today we have preliminary organisational sheets and we will know about employment at the end of September, October, because by the end of August they will finally be approved and teachers will know what employment will be. But it is worth looking at the context and facts. I understand concern - everyone who is in this room cares very much about teachers, because the teacher is a school, the teacher is a Polish school and it is not good when educated people lose their jobs. That is why we have been concerned about this kind of situation, that in recent years more than 40,000. teachers have lost their jobs and nothing has been done to protect teachers from this phenomenon in order to protect schools from liquidation. The education reform that we are introducing primarily serves to improve the quality of the school, to equalise the chances of pupils whether they live in a big or small city, but there is a second goal - i.e. to protect teachers from uncontrolled school closures, uncontrolled school removals, to protect teachers from dismissals. We save teachers' jobs, that's the facts. Changes in the structure of schools are designed to inhibit the obvious effects of demographics, because it is the cause of redundancies, which everyone knows perfectly well. Now it is worth mentioning such data that from year to year there are fewer and fewer students in middle school. Since the 2005/2006 school year, the number of pupils has decreased by 1/3, and I would like to say that the number of junior high schools has increased. What does that mean? That if we didn't do anything about it, we'd have an uncontrollable elimination of junior high. We care about teachers who are part-time workers - rightly so, but it is worth saying that every fifth teacher at the moment or before the reform was introduced worked in a local government school for a part-time job, i.e. Over 100,000. Teachers worked part-time. In self-employed secondary schools, e.g. in the countryside, one in three teachers is employed part-time. These are facts, let's talk facts, let's not scare teachers. It is clear that the changes proposed by us will contribute to the fact that the number of teachers fired will decrease, although we are not able to stop all the effects of the demographic low. Now, of course, we want teachers not to be fired, so we are introducing a reform, and as a result, for example. in 2017/2018 We expect it to be close to 2,000. more troops, in 2018/2019 there will also be nearly 2 thousand. more troops. This is an obvious consequence of the fact that branches in primary schools are less numerous than branches in secondary schools and with numbers especially the mathematician should not discuss. I don't think bills are that hard. Now this is the case: we can therefore say that by more than 3,000 thousand, by 3000 thousand. the number of branches will increase in the following years. As a result of an increase in the number of branches, the demand for teachers will increase by 3,000 in 2017/2018, and in 2018/2019 - by more than 3,000, i.e. in the following years the demand for teachers will increase, which is why it is difficult to discuss with data. There can be no dismissal of teachers in connection with the reform, and I will repeat: the need for teachers to work will increase as a result of the reform being implemented. It will also increase in relation to the revision of the framework curriculum, because by 2017/2018 it will be 1 hour more per week, a year later it will be 4 hours more, which results - compared to the situation, if we maintain such a framework plan - in the fact that we will have in total in the following years, in order not to quote data, about 4.5 thousand. teachers' jobs more. This is a chance for teachers to work. Since we care about this - the change and reform of education has its effects and teachers will change their jobs - since April on the websites of individual school curators there are announcements about job vacancies and there are 25 thousand such announcements, many of which are announcements about the size of over part-time and full-time jobs. As we see that information about numbers changes, teachers use these offers and thus have employment. Such an example: in the Mazowieckie voivodship there are 6 thousand. Announcements, right now we have 2,000, which means teachers have benefited from 4,000. announcements. The Wielkopolskie Voivodship contains 1,5 thousands, today we have about 1 000, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I mean, teachers use it too. I want to make it clear that all of our actions we're doing... Our priority, of course, is the student, but there will be a good school without teachers, so everything we do is to limit the redundancies of teachers, which unfortunately have taken place in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u53	Thank you very much. The additional question is also asked by Mrs Krystyna Shumilas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u54	Minister! I have an opinion of BAS, which makes it clear that in recent years the number of teachers has increased rather than decreased, and please do not mislead the public. I also have - and I tried to give this to Minister Zalewska yesterday - a notice to Aleksandra, a teacher in public middle school - I do not give my name because I protect personal data. What would a teacher say who got fired from a job? What's 9,000 gonna say? teachers - who already have a document in their hands saying that they have no job since September - who listen to the Minister's statements? The Minister does not give them any hope that they will find a job from September, and offers in education institutions, virtual offers, are offers for 2 hours' work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in schools 50 km apart. Shame on you, Minister. Sometimes it's better to keep quiet than to say the wrong thing. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: It is true, it is true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u55	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u56	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, sometimes it is better to remain silent than to speak untruthful. [[Applause]] I understand that some people are defending their wrong educational policy. We have to fix these mistakes today. Indeed, as we correct errors, these are also some consequences. But once again, what will be the state of employment of teachers, we'll know... In August, teachers will know what their professional situation is. Just because a teacher doesn't have a job today and isn't provided for in a sheet at one school doesn't mean he won't be in a sheet at another school. Don't cause any anxiety here, don't cause unnecessary misinformation. It seems to me that this is completely unethical to the professional group we represent. Of course, it seems to me that you have to hit your chest and tell what the former Minister of Education said to teachers, 40,000. teachers who lost their jobs in previous years. Today I will say this again, with full determination: if it were not for education reform, if it had not been for changes in the system, if it had not been for the increased number of branches, if it had not been for changes in the framework teaching plans, teachers would have lost their jobs because of the dramatic than demographic. If these are facts... I'm going to say it again because I think that some people here don't want to or cannot accept it; it's not my opinion whether it's a lack of the ability to accept the obvious facts or just bad will. However, it is clear that since the number of students is decreasing and the number of middle schools, including non-public secondary schools, is increasing, this middle school will fall, especially public middle school. As a result, the consolidation of primary school from secondary school, the extension of high school education in high school, the creation of the 1st and 2nd degree vocational school is an opportunity for pupils, but above all it is an opportunity for teachers, teachers of the subjects. Yes, there was a time when the number of jobs for a six-year-old in primary school increased, but it was an artificial increase at a certain point. In general, teachers, especially those concerned, lost their jobs. Let's be honest with the teachers, let's do whatever it takes to make them work in decent conditions. This is very important to us, which is why we are working on the professional status of teachers, we are working on improving the prestige of the teaching profession, we are preparing 15% increases. I think you also have to hit your chest, because since 2012 there haven't been any, teachers' salaries haven't twitched. Only now - to a small extent, but nevertheless - we value teachers' salaries and we prepare significant increases. I wouldn't underestimate it, wouldn't mislead the public, because over 5.5,000. job offers are more than part-time job offers. These are really decent job offers and teachers have a chance to get out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this to find. Therefore, I ask once again to be honest about the situation and to work together, regardless of political views, for education and for Polish teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj and Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Mr Law and Justice, on the situation of producer groups and possible corrective actions planned by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Mr Andrzej Kryj is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The producer groups in the area of fruit production and processing were shown as an example of great success in raising and spending European funds. It appears from the media that a large proportion of them were in a very difficult financial situation, which on the one hand could result in their bankruptcy and, on the other hand, the need to reimburse the funds spent to the budget of the European Union. A further consequence may be the acquisition of group assets by foreign entities. Control of spending by producer groups is currently underway. What are the results of these checks? What is the actual situation of producer groups? What possible corrective actions are planned by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development? This question is justified because, in the event of bankruptcy of producer groups or producer organisations in the case of purchased machinery and equipment, the duration of the project shall be 5 years from the receipt of a refund of 75%. grants for their purchase, and in the case of buildings - 10 years after receiving the last tranche of the grant for their construction. At that time, in the event of the bankruptcy of a European Union company, a claim for reimbursement of the grant paid together with interest shall be granted. Where these measures cannot be enforced from a failing company, the European Union makes a claim against the Polish State, which must pay to its budget both the equivalent of the grant and the interest due. It is therefore worth considering the possibility of setting up a special investment fund to cover bonds in producer groups. Groups in financial difficulties could issue bonds that could be covered by this fund for a period of between 3 and 5 years. The Fund could, at the same time, be entitled to sit on the Board of Directors, as part of the financial assistance provided, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to influence professional management of the company. This solution would allow these producer groups to exist at least until the project is completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u59	Thank you very much, sir. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Jacek Bogucki, answers the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen! To answer this question, I would like to remind and inform you that the pre-recognized groups of fruit and vegetables producers received a total of over PLN 7.6 billion of EU and national funds. The beneficiaries of this aid would initially be 356 groups, because there were so many applications, some withdrawn during the course, but even if they share it, a very simple bill comes out: more than 20 million per group. No agricultural production sector has ever received such support. Some of these groups have set up well-functioning companies that manage the market, which actually exploit the accumulated potential. Unfortunately, some of the groups, whether because of their inability to manage, or because of their deliberate action, used the money in an improper way. Following the audits carried out in these groups by the Polish institutions, as well as the audits carried out by the auditors of the European Commission and the European Court of Auditors, there were allegations that there were situations where groups were created in an apparent way only to obtain grants. In addition, there have been cases where the group members themselves sold their own assets at excessive prices to the group. There have been cases of over-investment costs and purchases. There have been other irregularities which have unfortunately been confirmed in the case of a large part of the groups. 209 groups were included in the corrective action plan. As part of the corrective action plan, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture verified the correctness of 1107 aid applications for 193 groups and it was established that 43% those applications contain irregularities. These were irregularities of various kinds and the various sanctions involved. These irregularities were sometimes very small and sometimes significant. For 25% Applications for recovery of funds unduly collected have been initiated. 279 decisions have been taken on the funds unduly paid. In the case of 27 groups, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture requested the head of the National Tax Administration to carry out a check on the regularity of the spending of funds originating in the European Union and also, in the case of 27 groups, sent a notice to the prosecutor's office of suspicion of the offence. It appears from the information available that the national prosecutor has taken personal supervision of ongoing proceedings. The final clearance of what has been done with regard to the expenditure of these funds will be possible after the resolution plan has been completed and the administrative procedure has been exhausted, as a significant proportion of the proceedings are currently in the review process until the second instance or before the administrative courts. Currently, 267 fruit and vegetable producer organisations are in the register kept by the Agricultural Market Agency and 14 groups are still implementing the investigation plan to be recognised. The data from the register does not confirm that claims for bankruptcy have already been made, which does not mean that there are no signals about the difficult situation of some of the groups resulting from very different reasons. Unfortunately, when State aid or EU aid it has already been granted to the organisation concerned, it is not possible to grant the aid again and the Ministry and the Polish State cannot therefore provide assistance to these groups, these producer organisations. The mechanism mentioned by your Member may be applied, but without public funding. Public funds cannot be used for this purpose, so there would have to be an economic institution that would have undertaken such activities on a commercial basis, on a market basis. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that the situation of the producer groups is very diverse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In general, problems concern those groups where, however, serious irregularities have been identified in the use of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. I wanted to welcome the students of the School Complex in Mielno. Welcome to the Kostine land, welcome to our guests. The next question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Do you not fear, after all the turbulence around the producer groups, that farmers may be discouraged from setting up producer groups? Who do you think is responsible for such penalties being imposed on the part of the European Union? Is it farmers' fault or unclear legislation? Are farmers interested in setting up producer groups, they can count on funding from the state budget for setting up such producer groups? You also talked about the checks that are being carried out. I would also like to ask: Do these checks concern the whole country, or just selected voivodships? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u63	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u64	I am convinced that farmers will not be discouraged from working together, from creating producer groups, because a significant proportion of them function properly and have positive effects on their members. Surely the problem is that one bad example affects and medializes, and socially more than 10 good ones. This is what we need to talk about and to remind you of, and to tell you what the real situation is, how many farmers have, however, benefited from the fact that they operate through their groups and benefit from it. I am also convinced that the measures that we are currently spending to finance this type of activity - although the fruit and vegetables groups have been excluded from new measures, but other measures are also involved - will have positive effects. The reason for this situation is so complex as I was talking about the causes of the irregularity, i.e. These were cases where EU law was misinterpreted. The law was also imprecise in this regard, and it was indeed also a major difficulty, as we keep the European Commission informed. But there were also cases of intentional and deliberate action, because there is no other way to assess the case when someone overstores the value of property purchased from himself - on the one hand, as the owner of the property, on the other hand, as the president of the group, as a member on the company's board, as a legal person, or intentionally overstores investment costs. So such cases also took place. As far as corrective actions are concerned, they are being implemented. Sanctions shall only affect those groups where manifest irregularities have been identified. Any group that acted properly, honestly, according to the law, is not exposed to sanctions. In addition, sanctions vary according to the cause of the irregularity, so sometimes they are limited only to the need for a small amount to be reimbursed by the group and the possibility of maintaining the entire project remains. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and further functioning. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by the Members... Excuse me, sir. No, it's okay. Let's move on to the next question. You've messed with my head, sir. The next question is asked by Marek Kwitek and Jerzy Gosiewski on the government's efforts to restore the economic, tourist and cultural role of the Vistula. The question is addressed to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. The first question will be asked by Marek Kwitek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Sejm of the Republic of Poland 2017 established the Year of the Vistula Rivers in order to appreciate the great importance of the Vistula River, on which the Poles led to the economic boom of our country, making Poland a European power. Vistula as our national heritage now requires sustainable development and restoration of its proper role. For many years, especially during the government of the PO-PSL coalition, it has been neglected, resulting in the fact that inland navigation is one of the least developed modes of transport in Poland. This is a civilization challenge for us, which needs a thoughtful strategy and courageous, far-sighted action. Protecting against floods, potential economic benefits from the development of shipping and tourism and proper management of the Vistula shore with the ecological balance of the river are perhaps difficult to reconcile, but feasible. This can be a huge opportunity to create and promote valuable tourism products and activate less developed regions located in the vicinity of waterways, and the regeneration of the Vistula can affect the increase in the number of tourists, which will bring tangible financial benefits, will lead to the expansion of the accommodation and catering base. Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government has taken many valuable initiatives to restore navigability to the rivers. Unfortunately, these great plans do not yet include the central Vistula, including Sandomierz, who owes his power to, among others, the Middle Vistula. Vistula. Currently Sandomierz, called in the past small Gdańsk, is a good example of activities aimed at opening up to the Vistula, which already attracts tourists and does not have to be associated only with a great flood. I would like to ask the Minister: At what stage are the works related to the creation of a water level in Niepołomice? When is it scheduled to be completed? Does the Ministry have plans to restore tourism shipping in the section of the Vistula from Krakow by Sandomierz to Warsaw? If so, when can it be expected? What is the government doing to increase flood safety? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What kind of resources are intended for this purpose? Are there programmes addressed to local authorities and other institutions to build marinas, small river ports and other investments to increase the importance of inland waterway transport in terms of tourism, passenger and freight transport and the development of regional tourism or culture around the Vistula? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Materna, Minister of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u68	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for the questions addressed to our ministry. I answer the question of what the government is doing in the framework of the implemented programmes relating to the restoration of the economic and tourist role of the Vistula. In April 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has drawn up a document on the development plan for inland waterways in Poland for the years 2016 and 2020 with a view to 2030, which was adopted on 14 June 2016 by the Council of Ministers. This document sets out directions for the development of inland waterway transport in Poland. The consequences of the measures adopted by the Ministry were the ratification by President Andrzej Duda on 6 March 2017 of the AGN Agreement, namely the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance. Poland, as a member of the AGN Agreement, undertakes to ensure on the waterways covered by the Agreement navigation conditions meeting the criteria applicable to inland waterways of international importance in the so-called. Class E, corresponding to at least class IV sailing. The infrastructure of inland waterways is multi-purpose. In addition to transport, flood prevention, water security for citizens, agriculture and industry and water energy, it is also important to use rivers for water tourism and recreation. The Ministry's plans include: to achieve significant improvements in navigation conditions on the Vistula Water River and its inclusion in the European water network. It is initially estimated that the cost of the Vistula cascade in the section of Warsaw - Gdańsk will be PLN 31.5 billion. The Ministry begins work on the preparation of feasibility studies for the Odrzańska Water Road E30 and the Water Road of the River Wisła E40 Warsaw - Gdańsk. The next step will be to order an analysis of the demand for transport services on the Odrzaska Waterway and the Water River of Vistula. The analysis will answer questions about the interest of @AKAPIT = companies providing inland navigation services. Its main objective will be to forecast the development of the inland waterway transport sector, defining the size, structure and direction of transport carried. With regard to the question at which stage there are works related to the creation of a water level in Niepołomice and when it is planned to end, I kindly inform you that the Minister of the Environment has full knowledge of the construction of a water level in Niepołomice due to the fact that he is responsible for the department of government administration: water management. From the information obtained from the Minister of the Environment, it appears that the water level construction project in Niepołomice on the upper Vistula has been included in the list of inland water projects, is currently at 25th position. Due to the limited allocation of resources for inland waterway projects under the Operational Programme, the infrastructure and the environment will not cover all investments. In short, given the degree of preparation of this project, it will not be possible to implement it in this perspective. However, in the assumptions for the development plan for inland waterways in Poland for the years 2016 and 2020 with a view to 2030, the construction of the water level in Niepołomice was placed as an investment expected to be carried out in the long term. As regards the next question, does the Ministry have plans to restore tourism shipping in the section of the Vistula from Krakow by Sandomierz to Puławy, if so, when it can be expected to be implemented, the lack of full navigability on the main waterways is a fundamental obstacle to the development of river transport in Poland. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation focuses on inland waterways of particular importance for transport and their economic use, as well as for tourism purposes. However, one of the priorities of the Ministry is the power to carry out the modernisation of inland waterways, which will consequently improve shipping conditions and thus contribute to the economic development of river basin regions. At this point, I would like to stress that the development of water tourism is closely linked to the plans of the Ministry to irritate the main inland waterways, as it significantly affects the development of the regions and the wealth of their inhabitants. Particularly recently, there has been a marked increase in the interest of tourism investments in the regions. As an example, you can give an example of the so-called development project. Żuławska loop. Aware of this, local authorities are putting pressure on the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping to take investment action as soon as possible. The Ministry cooperates with local authorities to develop optimal investment solutions. Our activities are and will be widely consulted, and the economic analysis carried out in the framework of the development programme for inland waterways also includes a tourist component. As far as the analysis of the development of water tourism is concerned, it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is a domain of local governments of voivodships, as well as the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. As far as the next question is concerned, maybe I'll answer it in the next round.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u69	Okay, thank you very much. And I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u70	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, As a complement to what the Minister has said, I would ask you to answer the question of whether there is a possibility of coordinating actions to build a strategy for local cooperation in the implementation of investments in shipping and river transport services. And one more thing. The information previously obtained by us shows that the entire IWT programme is scheduled until 2030. The priority is to launch the Odrzaska Waterway within 4 years. A similar amount of PLN 31.5 billion will be consumed by the sailing of the Vistula, which is also of great importance to us. Could you at least outline the prospect of the complete sailing of the Vistula with the details of the various stages? To the second question [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please provide a written reply as well as a written reply to the questions we have asked earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u71	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to complete the answer to his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also answer Mr Mark Kwitk on the question of whether there are programmes aimed at local government, for example. construction of marinas, small river ports and other investments to increase the importance of inland waterway transport and tourism. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation will carry out an analysis of the aid programmes, identifying the support areas envisaged in this respect in the regional operational programmes and other support instruments. Such analyses are expected to be part of a feasibility study for the Odrzaska Waterway and the Vistula River. At this stage, the Ministry collects information on the needs of the local industry and its potential to help determine the estimated range of investment needs and their costs. Therefore, next week, a meeting was scheduled with representatives of operators who manage port, transhipment infrastructure related to water and inland waterway transport. The meeting will discuss the state of play regarding the development of port and transhipment infrastructure on inland waterways. The issue of the investments planned by these entities will also be raised, so that information on potential sources of funding can be obtained. In answer to Mr Gosiewiski's question, whether there is a possibility of coordination of measures to build a strategy for local cooperation in the implementation of investments in shipping and river transport services, I inform you the following. One of the main tasks of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation is to restore navigability on inland waterways, which over the last decades have been neglected by lack of investment and necessary maintenance. The aim of the Ministry is to coordinate activities in the field of inland waterway transport and river transport. The Ministry receives numerous desiders, letters of intent and resolutions in which the content of local communities calls for action to develop inland waterways, seeing in them the possibility of developing particular regions. The grassroots initiatives are an expression of the support given by the Ministry for the restoration and improvement of shipping conditions on Polish waterways. Therefore, the management of the Ministry meets with the management board and talks about the assumptions adopted by the government for the development of inland waterways in Poland for the years 2016 and 2020 with a view to 2030 and their impact on the development of local communities. A formal structure involving a narrow group of key stakeholders in inland waterway transport - administration, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the business sector, Ministry - in the process of planning, preparing and achieving the objectives set out in the assumptions for the development plan for inland waterways in Poland is the Steering Committee for Investment in Inland Waterways. The committee is composed, among others, of the members of the committee. representatives of local governments of the Przywiślańskie and Pododrzańskie voivodships. Thank you. I'll answer the rest in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Janusz Śniadek and Mrs Bożena Borys-Szopa, Law and Justice, on the impact of entrepreneurship development on the labour market situation in Poland, to the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. The first question is asked by Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The good situation on the labour market in Poland is undoubtedly influenced by the development of entrepreneurship. Small and medium-sized enterprises represent an important part of the entire business sector, not only in terms of their size but also of the key role they play in the economy in many respects. Currently, more and more newly opened single-person businesses are emerging on the market. Undoubtedly, it is. also due to existing instruments in the labour market. According to the data of the Central Statistical Office in Poland there are about 1800 thousand. active companies belonging to the small and medium entrepreneurship sector, including about 1 million single-member companies. According to the 19th edition of the report on the state of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, there is a strong increase in the proportion of micro-enterprises in the entire enterprise population. There is also an upward trend in the number of jobs in companies, productivity of enterprises and investment expenditure. They are dedicated to starting their own business, among others. the resources of the Labour Fund. The number of Poles may also increase in the future, who will want to return from emigration to the country after the UK exits the European Union. What instruments does the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy use to support entrepreneurship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u75	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Madam President, for this question concerning the scope of support for entrepreneurship. One could answer that these tasks belong to the entire government, to the Ministry of Development, to the Minister of Finance, but of course also to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Promoting entrepreneurship is primarily about creating new jobs. The Minister of Labour has both instruments aimed directly at the development of entrepreneurship, the creation of new jobs and those whose primary aim is to support the unemployed in their return to the labour market. Of course, the law we use is the employment promotion law and the labour market institutions. In the framework of this law they operate, among others. instruments such as one-off measures for economic activity or the form of loans. I will discuss these two main instruments, because they are most important when it comes to the scope of the question, namely to support entrepreneurship. As regards one-off measures to undertake an economic activity, including the costs of legal assistance, consultation, advice related to the taking up of that activity, in the amount specified in the contract signed with the Labour Office, this contract may contain an amount of not more than six times the average salary. One-off measures to start a business are a good instrument for influencing local labour markets. This form of support is often an opportunity for people at risk of exclusion from the labour market without their own funds to return to work in areas where, for example, on the structure of enterprises, the dominance of the agricultural sector, low productivity is not a good chance to get employment. It is particularly important for the long-term unemployed to have this form available, as it represents a real opportunity for a lasting return to the labour market. A few data. The number of people supported to finance business start-up in 2016 - it was almost 45 thousand. persons. During the four months of this year, in the first quarter of 2017, over 9 thousand benefited from this instrument. unemployed persons. In 2016, the Labour Fund allocated almost 900 000 to grants for business start-ups. zł. No, then millions of zlotys. The appropriations from the Labour Fund for the start-up of business shall be non-refundable, provided that the newly created entrepreneur complies with the provisions of the contract. The granting of this instrument is decided by the old-timer, taking into account the situation on the labour market, but, of course, also taking into account the situation of the unemployed. What is important, what is worth pointing out, is the question employment efficiency. As far as the various instruments are concerned, the instrument for one-off measures to start a business is highly efficient and is also of great interest. In order to recognise efficiency, of course, it is important that this agreement is implemented, i.e. we have the first period of 12 months when this activity has to function, but also after this period of 12 months it is also important to have a further period of employment, i.e. a minimum of 30 days in a period of 3 months after the end of this mandatory 12-month period in order to continue this activity. This also improves the effectiveness of the actions that are being taken. The second important instrument is loans for business start-ups. Last year's students, graduates of schools and universities can benefit from business loans within 48 months from the date of graduation or professional title and, of course, also unemployed at all ages. It is worth adding that work is currently underway in the Ministry to extend the list of beneficiaries entitled to benefit from these loans, those returning to the country after longer stays abroad, in particular those who decide to return to the country in connection with the UK's leaving the European Union. In 2016, almost 800 loans were granted. In total, almost 3 000 have been granted since the start of the implementation of the loan programme. loans of almost PLN 200 million. Dominant sectors in terms of business loans are services and trade. It is also important that the majority of borrowers are unemployed because of their status, i.e. Over 2,000. people, and people up to the age of 30, which is the group whose most difficult job is to find. I think it is worth pointing out here that last year, at the end of the year, also at the request of the Minister for Labour, we have invested an additional amount of over PLN 77 million in the loan programme, of which we have also allocated PLN 12 million in support of unemployed mothers, fathers or legal guardians of children with disabilities, as well as the creation of new jobs, as I have already mentioned, for those returning in connection with the so-called. Brexit. I think it is also worth noting that the loan programme and the number of borrowers indicate that this aid in the form of low-interest loans is a hit instrument. In conclusion, I would like to say that both instruments are highly appreciated [[♪ The bell ♪]] and are good support for entrepreneurship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Minister, you spoke positively of two elements, not distinguishing, not indicating which one is more desirable, better. First of all, you have devoted quite a large part of your speech to existing one-off grants for the creation of an economic activity and the reimbursement of the cost of equipment and jobs. You also gave a very positive view of this loan system for similar purposes. Let me put it this way: from the point of view of the Labour Fund, this loan formula seems more rational. She's more motivated, too. On the one hand, the Labour Fund is recovering resources and on the other, it motivates these borrowers to develop positive results of their activities. I'd like an evaluation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, from this point of view, this second loan formula is not more favourable.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u79	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Minister Stanisław Szwed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, We remember when we didn't have a loan system at all, there were just grants. There was a constant discussion as to whether this grant system was a good instrument. I think that today, after these experiences, we can say that both the grant system and the loan system are needed. I agree with you that the loan system is a incentive system, because if someone has to pay back the loan, they will consider in a more rational way how to invest the funds to start business. If we say, for example. about the start of business and the form of grants, it is also a good instrument, especially for those who do not have the possibility, and there are many such situations, to find a gyrant in the case of a loan. This is a better situation for these people. To be clear, these two instruments, namely one-off measures for economic activity, are a good instrument, they are highly interested in the unemployed, especially those more excluded. On the other hand, this loan system, which is implemented by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, is also a good instrument because it opens up new opportunities, especially for those who can benefit from this form. I have already mentioned this, but I think it is worth reminding you that we want to help people who will try to return from abroad to our country even more. We want to amend the law that we are proposing, which will also be the subject of Parliament's work, so that these people no longer have to register as unemployed persons and can benefit from this form of loans. This is also a form of additional support for those returning from abroad. I think that the good form that we have already tested last year and which we will strongly support is loan to caretakers and people who take care of people with disabilities. This is an important instrument too. The aim is to support this group of people who are in a more difficult situation in the labour market. I think, in answer, that these repayable funds, loans are also important, because of course, if there is a repayment, then we can re-launch further loans. This is a mechanism that works well, but these subsidies are also needed. I think that after these many years of discussions, whether the loan or grant system, we have developed a good model, where both grants and loans together can have a good impact on the situation on the labour market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Ms Beata Mazurek, Law and Justice, will ask about the government's necessary support for the construction of a new mine in Chełm County. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I address on behalf of the people of Eastern Poland, especially the land of Chelm, my region, my small homeland. There is very high unemployment in our region, over 15% in April. . In our view, both public and private investment is necessary, which will create new jobs and stimulate the local economy. The previous government has not made a single major investment in this part of the country, no new infrastructure has been built, no new plants have been created. The future of the district of Chełm, also Włodawski and Łęczyński, and in principle the whole region depends on the development of natural resources. In Lublin, there are 1/3 national coal deposits, and geological conditions are conducive to mining activities. During the election campaign, voters were assured that a new mining plant would be set up in the county. The development of the Lublin Coal Basin and the construction of new plants form part of the plan for the Responsible Development Strategy. Building a mine that provides well-paid and stable jobs is an initiative that deserves support. Advanced works to build a new mine lead PD Co. This company has been present in the region for 4 years and has strong social support as well as local authorities. This means that there is an investor who has the resources and knowledge to create thousands of new jobs. This is an opportunity for a large investment in the poorest part of the country, with no burden on public finances. The new mine in this region is in the public interest, it is needed for inhabitants of Chelm land. Minister, please answer the questions. First, does the Ministry of Energy have a plan - or is working on it - for the development of the Lublin Coal Basin? Will such activities be included in the mining programme for 2016 and 2030 and in Poland's energy policy by 2050? Secondly, does the Ministry of Energy conduct and what activities to support the construction of new mines? Can investors, both companies under the supervision of the Minister and private entities, count on the support of the Ministry in this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u83	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for bringing up the topic of the so-called. the eastern part of Poland in the context of investment plans in the region, because indeed in the area of unemployment government plans provide for certain measures concerning the raw materials sector in the eastern areas. Of course, in a large part of our activities are focused on the Bogdanka mine, because we are owned by Enea's majority package, which makes it more affected as the owner. On the other hand, when it comes to predictability and the possibility of external investment by private investors, whether Polish or foreign, this whole programme, which currently operates in the field of organizing mining, is not only about issues concerning Silesia, but also in the perspective of energy security of Poland, makes it possible for foreign external investors, whether in the area of the Member or in other parts of Poland, to find their chance to invest, being a certain complement to the energy mix plan. In the case of the whole mining reform, a certain stage of organizational ordering has ended today. Then we move on to the stage of investment in entities of the State Treasury in Silesia as well as in the Bogdanka mine. In the east we also have a plan to build a power plant that would gas up coal at Bogdanka, which does not prevent an additional investment to be made concerning the construction of mines in the areas that you mentioned, as we are now balancing the demand of the Polish coal market - and domestic coal - and we do not distinguish between entities that are in the Treasury portfolio and private entities that are and will be on the market. An example is the digging of Silesia, which after certain perturbations is now quite active again on the market and is found in this economic perspective. Therefore, I think that as far as we can be helpful in our decisions, we are, this is happening, it is about ordering the energy market and preparing investment plans for energy and Polish heating, because this is the market on which, I think, coal from the regions of Lublin, from the region of Chełm can be found. On the other hand, it is also important that investors who appear on the Polish market can assess their economic and business potential, because since 2010, exactly since 10 December, when the Council of the European Union has taken a decision which has been adopted in some way by the previous government, we can only support those projects in the hard coal sector, which from an economic point of view involve profitable activities. Therefore, within our portfolio, which we have as the Treasury, we can carry out liquidation operations and demonstrate that our entities, such as PGG or Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa or Bogdanka, show a positive result. On the other hand, private operators need to find themselves in this space by investing their resources by calculating their position on the market. On the other hand, I think that a strong help in this calculation is the energy programme currently being built, indicating how much domestic coal should be found on the Polish market, so that we can secure the needs of Polish energy, energy security. On the other hand, we are building, because the acquisition of EDF's assets is underway, and we will also build a plan for Polish power plants in which coal will be burned in combination, as well as balancing individual customers, so we are also ordering the sales market for coal. This should definitely be helpful for external investors or foreign investors who plan to locate their investments on the Polish market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Would you like to ask an additional question? Please, Mrs Beata Mazurek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, if PD didn't want to invest and saw no economic opportunities, it probably wouldn't be interested. However, he is interested and wants the support of the Polish government for the construction, the creation of the Jan Karski Mine. I have a supplementary question. Minister, the board of directors of Bogdanka has made public that they are planning to develop in an area north of Chełmszczyzna, the Ostrów deposit. The President of Bogdanki announced that the company wanted to obtain a mining licence for this area in 2017, while the investment process was conducted by PD Co, which approved the documentation and declared the construction of the Jan Karski Mine in Chełm County. This company is listed on the Polish Stock Exchange, interested in the extraction of Polish coal and employment of Poles in the poorest part of Poland. Do you think we should take advantage of the opportunity to build a mine? I would add that the investor ensures that he does not intend to compete for the market with Bogdanka, and such arguments often fall in this respect, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with PGG or other Silesian producers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u87	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the emerging investors are also for us - ministries - with a certain argument, and I will move on to the point answer, which shows that our plan to save Polish mining, to build a coal-based energy system is rational, because private investors - and it is investors not only Australian, but also others - are considering investing in Poland, which means that the idea to save Polish mining and build energy facilities based on the hard coal sector and partly on the brown coal raw materials sector is an appropriate decision when it comes to implementation. Therefore, what I mentioned earlier, i.e. Bogdanka's plans, which should also be some information for a foreign investor, is presented so that investors - in this case foreign investors, Australian investors - can calculate for this region the real success of their economic enterprise. I would very much like to personally and, I think, to the Ministry's and Government's representative office, so that those who will invest in Polish raw materials, I mean private or foreign sector representatives, can actually carry out these investments and have an economic effect, because these projects must be balanced from the point of view of profit, business effect. Therefore, today we present both the investment plan for the Polish Mining Group, mainly the Polish Mining Group, as well as the plans of Bogdanka, so that everyone, as far as the Silesian area is concerned, the region of Lublin region can learn what the plan of the representatives of the State Treasury is and can start planning their investments themselves. I must say, when I answer this question, that we are at a very interesting historical moment, because in three years' time, four years' time, we will have to decide on new investments or the continuation of investments - and we will continue - in terms of the deposits we have and the mines that are not new mines. This does not apply to Bogdanka, because Bogdanka has large facilities and I think that the whole Lublin region has a lot of potential, which I think is the future of the widely understood Lublin region, and therefore foreign investment can be a great support for development, as you rightly pointed out and mentioned. That is why I thanked you for calling this topic, because it shows that Lublin region can be in a completely new situation through the development plan of Bogdanka, but also through the construction plan of power plants in these areas. If there was a foreign investor who could balance a business venture, then let us agree that these Polish parties would indeed have a breakthrough in their industrial, economic development. However, as far as Silesian mines are concerned, they must balance in a rational way in the coming years - where we can still extract coal, in which deposits we can continue to develop mines. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - 'cause it might be before we decide to build new mines or expand the area. Lublin Hole. But this, I think, will have to be settled by the government in 4 and 5 years, because it will balance for us when it comes to investment plans in the Polish Mining Group. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The questions are asked by Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz and Marzena Kochan, the Civic Platform. [[Magdalena, your marshal.]] [[Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Magdalena Kochan.]] What did I say? [[Marzena.]] Sorry, Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz and Magdalena Kochan - about the income situation of single parents raising children addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Ms Okła-Drewnowicz asks Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u90	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! We know that since January this year. the lowest remuneration was raised to 2 000. gross zloty, which is 1459,48 zloty. Thus, in a situation where a single parent would like to apply for maintenance support from a maintenance fund and earns the lowest national salary, he will no longer be able to obtain maintenance support from the maintenance fund, because the statutory criterion there is PLN 725 per person in the family, so that means that his income will be exceeded exactly by PLN 9.48. Minister, never in Poland since the maintenance fund was in place, there has been no situation in which a single parent receiving the lowest salary would qualify for the maintenance fund. The Minister once replied in a letter that today is the programme 500+. But I would like to point out that also in a situation where a mother or father raises a child alone, and their income is just PLN 1601, they will not have these 500 PLN - so neither from the fund nor from the 500+. That is not enough, the State does not increase the income criterion for family benefits, but you have raised the lowest salary. This also means that the mother or father will not be entitled to a family allowance or an allowance to a family allowance. It looks really bad when it comes to single parents. Unfortunately, this is discrimination against them. Is it because you may think that this is a general pathological situation? Because such words were often spoken by representatives of Law and Justice. So I'd like to hear the answer to what you're saying. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The minister said so.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u91	Thank you very much. The questions are answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Bartosz Marczuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions, there were three things I wanted to say. The first is the context. The whole story. Indeed, the 500+ programme has changed a great deal in helping parents, of course, also single parents. According to our records, among the children who are raised in single families, 400,000, to be exact, 393 thousand. children benefit from the 500+ program. If we multiply it by 12 and 500, we have the scale of help that is addressed to single parents who raise children, at the level of PLN 2.4 billion. This is the government. the amount of help that is addressed to single parents. No one ever talked about the fact that single parents are worse treated in the program, we always said that the criteria of this program are for everyone, exactly for everyone, i.e. for single families, marriages, patchwork families, partners, exactly the same. Interestingly, there are more parents in the system who declare to raise children alone than families of many children. So much for the 500+ program. And you have to remember, too. that 500+ does not count for income when determining the right to maintenance. So if it comes in 500+ and someone's applying for a maintenance fund, the maintenance fund doesn't see that income. Of course, here, the conclusion of this context is that the issue of the fact that the level of execution of alimony is intimidatingly low in Poland is very much at heart. Let me remind you that the maintenance fund pays about PLN 1.5 billion annually on average. In 2016, the maintenance fund was used by more than 300,000. the recipients, and the level of execution of the money from the recipients is within 13%. This is, of course, a problem that needs to be dealt with. Of course, let me remind you, we launched the campaign!Responsible parent pays in October 2016, we are also trying to influence mentality, because in fact - I will move on to this in this third part of the plan - it is often the case that non-payment of maintenance is a kind of mental trap caused by a certain social permission. And now, with regard to the minimum wage, I am absolutely dementing what you are saying. There is no situation that the minimum wage has caused someone to lose the benefit from the maintenance fund because, as you know, income lost is such an institution - or income earned in this situation - when someone does not have a job and then receives it. The increase in the minimum wage in 2017 has nothing to do with the right to benefit from the maintenance fund in 2017, so nothing will have to do with the year... That is, in 2016, in 2017, it can only possibly affect 2018. When someone applied for in 2016, he took revenue from 2015, when he would apply in 2017 - from 2016, this could possibly have an impact on the fulfilment of the criterion in 2018. Importantly, please do not mislead the public that any parent who raises a child alone will lose his right to a maintenance fund or lose his right to a maintenance fund. If this can in any way relate to this minimum wage, then only a parent who has one child. Because if he has more than one child in his upbringing, then of course the income is divided into more family members. On the other hand, and this is the third part of our plans, on 4 April in the review of the support of the families that the Council of Ministers adopted, this is what we are talking about, and this is already being adopted by the Council of Ministers a document on the maintenance package, that we will make a firm effort to raise or improve the execution of alimony. The former law of the Minister of Justice, Minister of Ziobra, which has already been passed and also has, we can already see, some positive effects as regards the payment of alimony. We in this maintenance package, in agreement with the Minister of Justice, would like to bring about a situation in order to significantly improve the execution of alimony. And this is really the key to the whole story: improving the execution of alimony, not raising the income criterion or raising the amount of these benefits so far. Because there can't really be a further situation that when we have a fantastic situation on the labour market and actually everyone can work at this point, we still have so many maintenance debtors who don't pay those alimony. And that's what we have to face first, and then we have to wonder whether or not to raise the income criterion, because if we did it in the opposite direction, it would be such a signal that it's again the state that delivers to those mean people who don't pay for their own children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u93	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Magdalena Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u94	Thank you very much, Marshal. I ask the Minister not to mislead the public, because what else is the collection of alimony, and what else is the right to use the maintenance fund of a single parent with the lowest income in the country. When you freeze the thresholds, the Minister knows exactly, you exceed that income by 9 zlotys. Moreover, in the proposed law - any day now it will enter the Sejm, actually it has already been at this meeting - you are going to make it even more difficult for those parents who are slightly above the income thresholds, because those who exceed much, for the second child receive money and for the first 500+ do not try. But to those who raise their children alone, you make it harder for them to access. First of all, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To apply for alimony, you have to prove their judicial investigation. Secondly, a parent who is cleared by flat-rate tax no longer declares the amount of his income, only the minister knows better than he does how much he earns on that tax. Third, even when taking children into day care, single parents have no preference. My question is, Minister, yes: Please answer the question of how much not only of the fund, of the possibility of using the maintenance fund, how many benefits will be lost by single parents raising children at frozen thresholds and at the same time increasing the lowest national threshold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u95	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! As regards the minimum wage questions, let us once again clarify, Madam, do not mislead the public that anyone will lose the maintenance fund as a result of an increase in the minimum wage. Someone who applied for a maintenance fund last year had the 2015 income. This year, how he will compete - from 2016, if he will apply in 2018, he will only have to take into account the revenue from 2017. [[In 2017, the Council ……]] [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: How will he get a job?]] So no one loses their entitlement to a maintenance fund after a minimum wage increase. This is just a constans and you know it very well, because you know how organized the selection of proposals is, and you know which years are taken into account. On the other hand, if you are accusing us that we are correcting the situation of a flat-rate person, i.e. a person who accounts for simple tax forms, a card or income recorded that we are trying to settle this situation, it is at least strange. Picture: When we last consulted changes in the 500+ programme, in Wrocław, the lady who works in the municipality told the story. He's supposed to make two decisions in one day. In the first case, it is a person who has a million-dollar income and declares a zero income, and you have to grant a benefit from the program 500+ for the first child, and in the second case it is a person who is just lonely, who has a few, a dozen-dollar income. She's about to make such a dramatic decision. Under the law, anyone who declares, even with a million-dollar income, can declare that he has zero income. Are you upset that the government is trying to straighten this out? [[I'm outraged because the benefit should be for every child.]] I'm sorry, if someone has a very high income and declares zero income, then right now, Is it wrong that we want this situation straightened out? I think that's a pretty bizarre charge. This is a situation that really needs to be resolved. Of course, this will not be a chase for business and clearing people in simple forms, but it is a matter of ordering this situation, also for the benefit of those people, so that those people who are few, but are pulling on all of us, pulling on the fact that they declare low incomes, not receiving support - next to them will be the person who has lower incomes, much lower incomes and such support will not receive. So once again, no one lost a minimum wage increase... [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: And we say that he does not qualify, not that he will not lose.]] No one has lost the minimum right to benefits from the maintenance fund as a result of an increase in the wage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u97	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 35 hrs. 11 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the effectiveness of Polish labour offices will be considered, which was presented by the Poselski Kukiz Club15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Ms Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the economic successes highlighted by the government recently is the decline in unemployment - the recent months are 7.7%. That's actually a good statistically good result. As the main cause of this situation, the government points to economic growth and consequently demand for labour and workers. I have never once heard from the Ministry that this success could be attributed to current labour market institutions. I mean the county labour offices and the provincial labour offices. And of course I am convinced that this is not a coincidence, because the Minister, and probably most Poles, have absolutely no doubt about the effectiveness of these institutions - or rather the lack of their effectiveness. Nor did the Supreme Audit Chamber or the National Bank of Poland have any doubts, making checks in 2015. Labour authorities, despite many attempts to reform, are unable to implement labour market policies effectively. One unemployed who disappears from the county labour office records for 3 months costs 50,000. zł. Most traineeships, public works are merely a source of free labour and are often used by employers. PUPs do not measure the effects of their activities at all, and the only effect is whether an unemployed person has been discharged from the register of the employment office. Interestingly, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has no data on the effects of the actions of district labour offices. The Sirius system, which is to deliver them, only shows the number of persons registered, not those who have found work. Training, courses are very often chosen for the needs of training companies rather than unemployed. Annually we spend PLN 4 billion on maintaining district labour offices and voivodship labour offices. They have an additional 5 billion on the so-called. active forms of activation. We spend almost PLN 10 billion from the state budget for activities that no one can measure and determine. The effectiveness of training, generously sponsored from our taxes, is 20%, i.e. if we train 10 unemployed people, the training of each will cost 2.5 thousand. zł, we'll spend 25 grand, that's 20,000, which results in, it's just thrown in the mud. The same is true with internships - if we spend 60,000 on 10 trainees. zł, it's 48,000. It's just going into the mud. Can we afford it? The reasons for the low effectiveness of district labour offices should be seen primarily in a bureaucratic system based on artificial statistics. After the reform, a memorable reform, the Minister of Mocina from previous governments became this state of affairs: We have three categories of customers, they are divided into three categories. First, so-called. profile, these are young, educated people, actually those who need placements, but county labour offices absolutely cannot provide such services effectively. The second, second profile, is a group of people who are medium-distance from the labour market and who are able to complete their qualifications in a short time or use some services that will bring them closer to the labour market. And here we are actually dealing with a large, wide range of methods for activating unemployed people, but they are not individually selected for the needs of the unemployed person or for the needs of their surroundings, but are dictated by e.g. public contracts, tenders which are announced at the county labour offices. The third group of customers is so-called. a customer farthest from the labour market. In fact, they are long-term unemployed, disabled, mothers who are returning to the labour market. These are people who really require services other than those provided by county labour offices, services that will bring them closer to this labour market. Very often they are people who are absolutely not interested in any job offer at all and are actually only registered to maintain health contributions. Not much of it, this third group, the most numerous in employment offices at present, are people who are also registered in social assistance and receive benefits there as well. Not much, they are often registered at work offices to get these benefits from social assistance, because this is a requirement, such a certificate is required. Minister, we are talking about measures that are spent double on the same people, from social assistance and from district labour offices. After the introduction of 500+ some of these people from the third profile simply went out because they stopped receiving social assistance, they no longer need it. In all, praise is given to the government, but in fact the fall in unemployment should not be partially seen in the 500+ programme, since these people have resigned from the employment office because they do not need a certificate to the ILOS. Minister, is the Ministry planning to reduce spending on county labour offices, given all the elements that we have pointed out in our information as well as decreasing unemployment? Are you planning an introduction? [[♪ The bell ♪]] reform, which is based on a reliable basis? Are you really going to measure the effects of the work of the county labour offices? It's our money and our taxes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u99	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I will start like this: I think it is worth discussing the functioning of work offices, the efficiency to return to history, because this is important in our discussion that we are conducting. I would like us to take this discussion very substantively, because this discussion about the functioning of labour offices is needed. I will not refer to all the charges that you have spoken of, I simply disagree with many, and there will be no time to develop this here. It is worth reminding, however, that when the regime changed in Poland in 1998 from 2000 onwards, the labour offices were subordinated to local governments. I was not in favour of this solution and until today I am not in favour of the solution that labour offices are subject to local governments. I thought that the policy on unemployment, the labour market was the responsibility of the government, and it should be in the government administration. This is actually the case in most European countries, there is no such model actually similar to ours. Most of the models that function in the labour market are in government administrations or slightly differently modified, i.e. government and self-government. We have a typical local government, and the government's involvement in this or influence, the direct influence of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy on the functioning of labour offices is negligible, because we do not have instruments. Of course, we have instruments in the sense that funds are being transferred through the Ministry, as well as we are carrying out those activities which result directly from the Act. That's the first thing. Of course, it is difficult for us to say that we are boasting that we have the lowest unemployment in 26 years, because this is a fact, it is difficult not to talk about it. The statistics we are talking about concern the whole of the European Union. If we talk about the statistics that Eurostat presents, we have a unemployment rate of 4.8, that is the sixth result in Europe when it comes to the lowest unemployment. Why shouldn't we talk about it? That's a good result. I will not fully agree that this is only the result of the business activity, that is also in some part the impact of the forms that we are taking, i.e. active forms of combating unemployment, and the measures that we are directing. The best example is the measures that we address to young people under the programmes - the youth unemployment rate is also falling sharply. And these are the instruments we use that are worth talking about. As for what you also accuse - I do not know where you get the data that 4 billion zlotys go to serve employment offices. Pay and other things are in the hands of government, old people, that's deducted from taxes, that's normal employment. The wages at work offices are very low, on an embarrassing level, so to speak, and that is also a big problem when it comes to work offices. We have introduced some methods to improve the efficiency and co-financing of the Labour Fund activities more active, i.e. customer advisors, there is this special supplement, 5% , and efficiency - 2%. This instrument is in force until the end of 2017 and we need to extend it for the following years because it also requires that these funds be earmarked for this. Now when it comes to checking whether it's an efficiency test. Of course, I have the data on cost efficiency in various forms of support. For the trainings that you spoke about, 5500 PLN on average. Whether it's much or little, it depends on the situation. In one case it will be too much, in the other it will not be enough. That's the question of how we're gonna approach it. Intervention work - 6600 on average, public works - 12 300 (roads, public works). It's an expensive instrument most often used by local governments. But we also need to consider who uses these instruments, what people use them. If we are talking about the most excluded group, i.e. those who are affected by the highest unemployment rate, then of course there is a different situation. This is very important, and it must also be stressed that if we look at the structure of unemployment, we are talking about very low unemployment at 5.5 on a national scale, but we still have very diverse unemployment. An example of Warsaw: the centre of Warsaw is less than 2% And the Szydłowiec district is over 20%, that's 10 times the difference. That's a whole different way to look at it. in a county like this, or in a big city. It is similar across the country that unemployment is very diverse, and the actions we will take - but also to change what I will talk about later - in the new labour market law, they must take into account this condition of differentiation, so that these funds are used to a greater extent. Returning to cost efficiency, internships - very popular, form of support for people, where after the internship period you can take up work: 8900 PLN average. As I say, there is also a discussion: much, little - depending on the situation. She can be large if an internship is given in the city of Warsaw, but it can be small when it comes to an internship, which will be e.g. in the Szydłowiec district. One-off start-up measures: more than 20 000 zł. I answered Mrs Boris-Raccoon's questions just a moment ago. A very good instrument, which is very successful. The unemployed person can start an economic activity, receives a subsidy of 20,000, up to six times, here we have an average for last year 20 600 PLN. This activity needs to be carried out for 12 months, and later this efficiency is included in the further part of the employment over the next 3 months. It is worth considering whether this instrument should not be extended, how to use it even more, to create sustainable jobs, so that these measures are not actually used only, as you say in your question, for short-term power supply. I'm talking about starting a business. Refund of the costs of fitting-out or fitting-out of a workstation used by entrepreneurs employing workers under similar conditions: also a similar amount of PLN 20 800. If we look at all the performance indicators we're looking at, they're 11,000. zł. And now... I'm looking at the time I'm running out. Reform and new law in 2014. One of the topics that we discussed hard at the time, when working in the subcommittee, was that we did not agree to some solutions, because there was a question, for example. profiling - that is what the Member spoke about in her speech. I was not in favour of profiling and I am not, because I believe that it stiffens the work of labour offices, that people are sorted out, assigns to particular groups, or looks for on the Internet, to which profile to save to support such support, so in the new proposals we will want to introduce this as an optional, non-mandatory task. If one of the labour offices thinks he needs it, he'll benefit if he doesn't, it won't apply. On issues related to the loan system, there has also been a discussion over many years: grants - loans. We chose the measure: we have the subsidies, and the loans. I think this is working today because one-off grants are a good instrument, but loans are also a good instrument for this reason, that if someone takes a loan and has to pay it back, he will think more about what activity to run it on. It is known that these are most often services, this is trade, because this is the easiest when it comes to starting up a business. And that's an instrument that's worth talking about. Of course, we are preparing to change the law or write a new law, simpler, bigger in which we want more flexibility in the functioning of labour offices. In public communication, there was a proposal that I made to return the labour offices to the government administration. There's a lot of craziness going on around here, but we're working on it. We are wondering how to solve this in a way that is as effective as possible, not on the basis that we want to take something from someone, but that we should really look at how to spend public money better - because the Labour Fund is the money from employers' and employees' contributions - so that they are more efficiently spent. I hope that the changes that we propose in the Act will be in line with what you are talking about, to make it more effective and effective. The question of subjecting labour offices is also an open issue. I think that's gonna sound good in questions in the discussion, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u101	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? In that case, please add yourself to the list. I'm closing the list. I would like to say that we have almost 40 Members tabled. If we want everyone to have a chance to ask questions, I would ask you very much to try to fit in 1.5 minutes, then there is a chance that everyone will then be able to ask that question. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Mosiński, First Member, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law and Justice electoral programme deals with the problem of high unemployment and the fight against it through, among others. activation of the unemployed, support for small-scale entrepreneurship and the like. The results of the electoral programme, i.e. the implementation of the social contract with citizens, have tangible results. Another year in a row we are seeing a systematic decline in registered unemployment in Poland, and moreover, the dynamics of decline seem not to slow down. In 2014 the number of unemployed registered fell by 15.4% , year later - 14,3%, in 2016 - 14,6%. At the end of April this year. There were 1,252 700 people registered at the employment offices and 17.7% decrease per year. The unemployment rate is also systematically decreasing, which at the end of 2014 was 11.4% to reach a level of 7.7% at the end of April. Let us also note another methodology, the BAEL methodology - an examination of the economic activity of people - which is promoted, among others. the global organisation of work and which Eurostat applies. In February 2017, unemployment in Poland amounted to only 5.3%, which means that in fact there were less than one million Poles in Poland, about 921,000. people, which gives Poland 4th position ex aequo, i.e. equally, with the Netherlands. Therefore, I ask the Minister how the most recent data on the labour market situation in Poland and what are the prospects for further changes are in the context of the problems outlined with the efficiency of the work offices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Work offices are becoming more and more efficient, Member. Employers' views of cooperation with them are improving and are becoming more positive over the years. Labour offices acquire, have in most counties such an offer in the field of work that they are able to help any person willing to work. And with that desire it's very different. I also met - very occasionally - with such an opinion that the employment offices work improperly, but as I talked longer, it turned out that such opinions were expressed by people who had never cooperated with the employment offices or used their services. Since 2014, we have seen a very positive phenomenon in Poland, a decline in unemployment. I would like to emphasise: since 2014. That's when the Civic Platform with the PSL was run. Unemployment won't fall in one minute. This is a long-term cycle. Labour offices not only spend money from the Labour Fund but also EU funds for the activation of the unemployed. According to the information I have, in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship from which I come, the labour offices were the first to start implementing EU projects and spend EU funds effectively. Is that so, Minister, all over the country? The employees of the labour offices, as the Minister has already mentioned here, are being paid very little. As we understand it, we've introduced some additions, but these allowances are valid until the end of the year. Will it be maintained 5% for remuneration for customer advisors and 2% for prizes for achieving high performance indicators for officials working in offices? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have one more question. With the Minister, we have worked for many years on the Employment Promotion Act. Will you propose to remove health contributions from labour offices? This is a problem for all authorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u105	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure I can fit in time. Dear Minister, the unemployed registered at the employment office have the right to receive training. Training in theory is designed to improve professional qualifications and increase the chances of taking up or maintaining employment. In practice, however, they often fail to do their job because employers do not want to hire so-called. professionals after a few months of professional training. Moreover, these trainings, even though they are ineffective, generate costs for the state budget. For this reason, I kindly ask you to answer the question: What part of the budget does the organisation of training by the labour offices take? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u107	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much for your support. The point is that colleagues can ask questions as well. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a very important topic, but also a subject that can give an opportunity, if we are talking, if we want to talk about the effectiveness of the use of resources. Minister, before we talk about this, as you mentioned: we are providing for organisational changes in the functioning of the employment services, if that can be said... I am sure that this work will also address what indicators to measure this efficiency, which new standards will emerge. If we mention that there may be a situation of exclusion, so to speak, a work office under the supervision of the local government, can the Minister tell us on what grounds? How far did these local governments fail to fulfil their role? We know that before 2000, when there were regional offices, regional employment offices were connected to this basic link of government administration. The natural course of things after 1999 was established at the level of the county, and the unit of employment services entered. That's why I don't think it can be said in one sentence. I think it's going to be an analysis of why local governments didn't play their part. There were conditions, there were better and worse situations, but we can't say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the effectiveness of support for the unemployed was negligible. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u109	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Before I give the floor to the next Member, I wanted to welcome the young people to the gallery. I hope you enjoy your stay. I especially welcome the young people from Zagłębie, from the best high school in Zagłębie, i.e. Staszica. [[Applause]] I wish you a pleasant stay and hope that this will also be an interesting meeting in the Parliament hall. And now Mrs Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the Sejm, we are discussing a very important topic, namely the efficiency of the work offices. It is undisputed that significant resources from the Ministry of Labour are intended to activate the labour market, unfortunately they are outside the control of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Minister, my question is: Is the Ministry planning to carry out structural changes in the labour market area? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this objective assessment of the labour offices. It is rare that the Minister is so objectively referring to the problem you mentioned. I also wanted to thank the county labour offices, especially the one in Jastrzębie-Zdrój, which this year proved to be the best in the Silesian Voivodeship in activating activities. Thank you very much to all the employees for this daily work and work. Minister! The Europe 2020 energy strategy is a 10-year European Union strategy for growth and jobs. Poland presented the European Commission in this respect, as a national target, among others. Increase the employment rate of people aged 20 to 64 to at least 71%. Here I was going to say that Sweden is the biggest - 80% , in Germany - 78%. Projects co-financed by the European Social Fund under the Operational Programme (Knowledge, education, development and regional operational programmes) in 2014-2020 are one of the instruments for implementing this strategy. Of course, the county labour offices implement these projects, implement and implement these projects. In April, a report prepared by NIK appeared, which - I will say - confirmed the validity and reliability of these projects prepared by the Minister of Development and the Marshals of the voivodships. He was checked, among others. the scope of the action, the resources spent and the effectiveness of the spending of these funds, i.e. the reduction of employment under those funds which have been transferred. Minister! I wanted to ask you: What does it look like today in the context of the whole country, the implementation of this program? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Admittedly, only three voivodships and several of these district labour offices were evaluated. I'd like to know, what does this indicator look like on a scale? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. I remind you what Marshal Kidawa-Błońska said to save 1.5 minutes today because people signed up for much more than possible... You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My questions are about the National Training Fund. The funds - in short - from the KFS are to be allocated to education in the regionally identified voivodship deficit competitions. And here's my question: Is the government going to change the classification of deficit professions in the county, voivodship? I've got surveillance of the deficit competitions in the Rybnik district. Signal information 2nd half of 2016 And here, for example. The most inefficient profession is the glassmaker, the operator of machines for the production of plastic products. A great deal of importance is attached to identifying the needs of the employer, but at this point the question should be asked: Will it also be possible to apply for the funds themselves precisely for possible training for workers who also tie the future to a particular profession? Currently, they can only apply for grants from the company. I would ask that in all the counties of the KFS also be published on the same dates. The point is, for example. in the Śląskie voivodship they are announced in different powiats on different dates, and the codification of the term would really help to determine the needs of different specialties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u115	Thank you very much. And Mr Jan Łopata, the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u116	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, such a phenomenon of discrediting people, institutions, has been observed in Poland for some time. Looks like it's time for work offices now. I have the impression that this today's content of current information serves a little bit as well. Yeah, speaking of classics, don't go that way. It's really not gonna do any good. In my opinion - not only me, I thank you here also for the Minister's statement - the functioning of the labour offices is necessary and necessary, for both social and economic reasons. The situation on the labour market, as we have already talked about many times here, is actually improving and the decline in the number of registered unemployed is visible, but first of all, it is a differentiation, which was mentioned here before, and secondly, taking up work by a registered unemployed person is a process in which, without the help of a specialist, professional advisor, psychologist, employment intermediary or - more broadly - advisors of this unemployed person, this client will not be able to enter or return to the labour market. It is similar with employers. They need support, too, for example, in finding the right employees. There is another phenomenon that is reprehensible in Poland, but it is: in my well-known employment office as many as 34% of registered people are registered without professional qualifications. As much as 34%, so the contact between the labour office and education, with the education system is definitely needed. As many as 54% are long-term unemployed, i.e. registered at the office for more than 12 months. For them, workshops and specialist support are needed in the process of building motivation and readiness for change. Similarly, the number of people 50+ increases. And this phenomenon in Poland will follow. Therefore, I ask very much for respect for the institutions, and perhaps in particular for those who, in connection with this unemployment [[♪ The bell ♪]] in previous years, very high unemployment, effectively in my opinion passed the exam. And they should be thanked not to remain uncertain. So the question is: What is the future of the labour offices, Minister? Although, after your speech, the answers... [[Voices from the O.R.: Time!]] ...I'm a little calmer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u117	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u118	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions in 2016, expenditure on the Labour Fund, financed of course by county authorities, amounted to about PLN 3.3 billion. Employment efficiency at national level is less than 79%. Of course, this employment efficiency is assessed in various ways. The NIK evaluates in one way, the Ministry and the Labour Offices evaluate in another way. However, with the work offices it is like with democracy according to Churchill's words: unfortunately, a better institution has not been invented so far to activate the unemployed. Such activation activities have been contracted to employment agencies on the basis of Article. 66d laws that turned out to be a complete failure. These actions are criminal, and they're going to be writing about it soon. However, there are work offices that are worth commending, which work effectively. From this place I wanted to commend the employment office in my place of employment - District Labour Office in Namysłów, which in 2016 took 1st place in Opole region and 9th in Poland in terms of effectiveness of professional activation. It's going to be the same this year. The percentage activation is almost 91%, and the cost - 7668 PLN, and this is also worth highlighting, because the lower the cost of activation, the better. The catalogue of forms of professional activation is pre-defined, as we know, you know it, so that I will not repeat it here. The question is: Isn't it worth considering changing this catalogue of forms of professional activation? I mean, if it's like... o National Training Fund, these are money that is also pumped into people who work there because they can train professionally, but it does not help the unemployed to find a job or a place in the labour market. So you'd have to think about that catalog. Question: "Will the Ministry be wondering?" Are these changes planned? Is it simply planned to verify the money that is spent on these indicators? Indicators, of course, but it's important that these people, especially young people, find jobs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, I would not depreciate all forms of support, e.g. traineeships are, in many cases, the only possibility for young people to take up work, the only opportunity in the labour market. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u122	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unemployment at 7.7% It's a very good result, we're all happy about it. There's no reason for the Minister not to say that either. Of course, the Minister also said that this is the result of many years of action and you are probably a rarity in Law and Justice, who appreciates the effects of 8 years of previous governments, for which I thank you very, very much. I think this attitude allows us to actually work together on various problems. I would like to actually bring up one issue that somehow broke through in previous discussions in previous years. Mechanisms that are used are used as evaluation mechanisms, always by some officials, whether local government officials or indirectly government officials. Wouldn't it be wise, Minister, to think about some form that would bring the work offices closer to those... that would be to some extent, maybe subject to a free market, or did they contain a substitute for it? I know that this is difficult for your formation, because your formation is rather trying to ensure that everything is centrally controlled, which is evil, which will undoubtedly lead to evil. Nevertheless, it is worth thinking about. I think it would also have a good effect. I also have this question about the fictional unemployed, those who only register for welfare and insurance. What is the Minister's view on this matter, and what can be changed in order to improve it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u124	Hello, Marshal. Minister! NIK auditors have established that special schemes for the unemployed, instead of being a support tool for the most difficult to find and maintain or exist on the labour market, are treated by district labour offices as a means of raising additional funds. They are chosen to participate in programmes by random persons, often those who do not even meet the eligibility criteria. In the case of almost half of the programmes examined, the auditors found situations where standard forms of aid were implemented under the name of the special scheme. Therefore, I kindly ask you to answer the question: Is the Ministry planning to take action to discipline the authorities and settle them from the implementation of special programmes? As I take advantage of the situation, I would like to ask one more question. The wage fund comes directly from employers, is paid in percentage from the amount of quotas, from employment. Would it not be appropriate to reflect on a situation where, as in the case of PFRON, for new workplaces created by the employer, internal write-offs should be made within the workplace? Wouldn't that make it easier, because without so many officials on the way, to support new jobs directly in the workplace? I would like to tell the PSL Members in particular that the labour offices were created to move from real socialism to capitalism. Today, unemployment is almost slightly above 7%. Where these offices must be, they should be there, but I do not understand why county employment offices are where there is no unemployment, e.g. in Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u125	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First, you have to ask yourself: Do you take the help of the unemployed and those looking for a job? Does he feel to some extent responsible for the situation on the labour market? If so, it is difficult to question the functioning of the labour offices which have the resources allocated to them by that State, i.e. appropriations arising from the contributions of entrepreneurs to the Labour Fund, which is a special-purpose fund intended in principle to support the labour market. Question two. Do these offices do everything in their power, and do they do it with due care and care? And here we will probably meet with extreme opinions. The opponents will talk about wasted money, supporters of the hard work of district labour officials, poorly paid, and with a high level of responsibility and a wide range of responsibilities. The unemployed should be accepted, talked to him, discerned his abilities, offered support, and no one knows what else. I would just like to remind critics of the fact that a few years ago the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy proposed to provide some activation services to private employment agencies. And what did it turn out to be? These agencies had a big problem with activation of the so-called. difficult unemployed people and they have done so more expensive and less effectively than these evil labour offices. The two-part financing of labour offices introduced in recent years, which also has its drawbacks, has contributed to a significant improvement in employment efficiency. In 2015, it's almost 76%. And for 2016 it's 79%. The cost of re-employment in the country is also around 11 thousand in 2016, and in 2015 it was still 13 thousand. And you can discuss whether it is much or little. But at this point, I would like to point out that such highly criticised unemployment training is more than 80% effective and cost effective is about 2 000. And it best defeats the myth of evil offices. Finally, I would like to say this: Józef Piłsudski in 1919 issued a decree on the organisation of state employment agencies and on the care of refugees - two parties, and the law on the promotion of employment and institutions of the labour market - more than 220 pages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can these poor officials not get lost? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler. I don't see your MP. Therefore, Mr Paweł Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by using the employment office myself. I have such questions, because the labour offices have actually permanently entered the image of the Polish system, while the Polish reality is changing. The question is: How have labour offices changed in recent years when unemployment fell? I understand that, of course, it can be said that this is due to the employment offices that unemployment has fallen, not to the good economics or to the entrepreneurs who have opened jobs. By staying with entrepreneurs, I will ask: What is the Ministry's plan for labour offices to compete with labour agencies? Because unfortunately, for many entrepreneurs there is no chance that a potential employee will find a job, e.g. in a foreign corporation that uses only the services of special employment agencies or its own, so to speak, recruitment departments. How do the labour offices want to compete here? Here's another thing. How do labour offices want to adapt to the situation that we have today on the labour market because the number of unemployed people is decreasing? The simplest conclusion - it would also be necessary to reduce resources, expenditures, in short, restructure labour offices. Do the labour offices have or do the Ministry have a plan to restructure the labour offices, to restructure the costs? Finally, another issue with regard to these trainings. I do not deny the need for these trainings, but does the Ministry have knowledge that there have been cases - I remember when I studied the subject - that there was for example. training for women aged 50+ from rural areas on domestic gardening? For God's sake, is this kind of training really necessary? What are they meant to do? Isn't that just throwing money in the mud? So what is the effectiveness of the money spent by the labour offices or the resources spent on what the labour offices then spend, and how the ministry specifically controls it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and how does it want to improve the effectiveness of the spending? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u130	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The representatives of the Kukiz club15 talked about the costs associated with the operation of labour offices, reaching PLN 4 billion on a national scale. This amount seems astronomical, especially if we look at statistics on unemployment rates and unemployment rates themselves. Minister, where does this amount come from, and is it really meant for the functioning of labour offices? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u131	Thank you very much, Member. And Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The topic of efficiency of district labour offices can have two threads. One of the main factors is the level of wages paid by officials employed in these institutions. Consideration should be given to the possibility of developing such a mechanism in order to ensure decent wages for workers. In general, too low wages are the reason for increased turnover of workers. Experienced leave because they have more attractive job offers. It takes on new ones, without the experience to be trained and supervised. This is certainly a barrier to work efficiency. The second thread is this, and here I will go back to yesterday's topic related to the 500+ programme, that many registered unemployed people don't really want to work. They prefer to have unemployment status, benefit from 500+ and social assistance, and here's a huge problem. These two areas need to be improved. Then I will ask the Minister about the situation relating to the salaries of the workers of the old-age labour offices. How is the government going to improve it? Does the Ministry intend to work to increase the wages of employees of labour offices? Is financial resources planned for this purpose in the next year's budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the most important problems of the labour office is a group of people who register for health insurance only. Most of them are people working in black or completely uninterested in taking any kind of job. These persons, so-called: fictitious unemployed, overestimating unemployment statistics. They are offered activation measures, which they do not really want to use. As a result, people who actually need support are lost. The rules allow officials to remove such persons from the unemployment register if they do not take the proposed activation measures. Fiction unemployed will therefore not be able to refuse when the employment office offers them, among other things. participation in training, which will thus further limit the access of the remaining unemployed to activation activities. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: What steps the Ministry intends to take to combat the so-called. fictitious unemployed? I'm a member of Koszalin soil, as we know, it's a Popeye area. There's a lot of unemployment there, and there's a need for a job. It's my experience. I work with the Director of the Labour Office and I value his involvement very much. As far as recovery is concerned, there is one problem. People could do emergency work in the commune or Koszalin district, but they don't have a transport, they don't have a way to get there. It would also have to be considered whether they could be allowed to do something, e.g. PKS, get to jobs because they don't have a way to get there. In the summer, you can still get there by bike. But after summer it's hard to get there, and it's a bit of a road. So that there are work offices that are not needed everywhere, and in my territory it is advisable to help those people who are still living in lethargy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the most dangerous phenomena in the labour market is the long-term absence of employment. Long-term unemployed persons registered at employment offices account for more than half of the total registered persons. According to recent data, there are almost 700,000 of them. In Świętokrzyskie Voivodship 28 455 long-term unemployed persons were registered at the end of April this year, or 54.6% the general public. Of course, their numbers are falling, but the dynamics of this decline are, in my opinion, insufficient. We all know the social and economic consequences of long-term unemployment, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Does the Ministry see this problem and what kind of action will be taken to combat long-term unemployment effectively? I would also like to ask the Minister whether there are indications to the Ministry that the subordinateness of the labour offices to the district old age causes politicisation of the process of combating unemployment. During meetings with me, the inhabitants of Opatowski County in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship said that receiving help by the employment office depends on whether you are in good relations with PSL in this area or not, because the Opatowski starosta is from PSL. What mechanisms should be put in place so that obtaining such an internship would not be linked e.g. political connections? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u137	Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I do not share the views of the applicants that labour offices are inefficient. But it is a good thing that we are discussing this today, because I think everyone sitting here in the Chamber would like public money to be spent not so much in an effective way as an effective way, especially because they refer to a very sensitive area, a sphere of public life and often refer to people who are having trouble finding themselves in the labour market. Therefore, on this occasion, I would like to draw the attention of the High House and the Minister to the so-called. performance indicators. The way they are calculated according to the same principles in all work offices without taking into account regional disparities is unfair and does not show actual labour expenditure. Besides, the Minister mentioned this in his speech. There are counties in Poland where there is no problem with finding employees, but there are also such districts as mine, Przemyski in Podkarpackie Voivodeship, where unemployed people actively looking for a job, especially older ones, cannot find it for a long time. The Przemysl market is a very difficult labour market. Nearly 8,000 were registered at the end of May. unemployment and unemployment rate of 15% at a national rate of 7,7%. In the area of the Przemysl labour office there are about 10,5 thousand. economic operators, including 96% of them employing up to nine people, i.e. family businesses. In 2016, the Industrial Labour Office, making a huge effort, for which I thank you very much, activated over 2750 unemployed at the cost of activation of one unemployed person of around 12.5 thousand. zł. But this efficiency indicator that it achieves is slightly lower than the national average, which immediately involves money. It would therefore be reasonable, Minister, for which the labour offices have repeatedly requested to take in assessing the efficiency of the office's work. taking into account comparable markets, e.g. in terms of number and size of economic operators, unemployment rates, unemployment rates, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which, on the occasion, I'm asking you very kindly. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the beginning, if you allow me - to the PiS Member, to the absent Member of the PSL - Kukiz15 did not cause this issue to be completely plowed. We're the only ones who think it's hard to talk about. We are in favour of looking for optimal solutions, because in our view there is a whole lot of ridiculousness in the functioning of work offices. [[Applause]] I think you'll at least share that view in part. But to the point. In the press reports it was possible to read, in today's speech the Minister could hear work on reform of the functioning and location of the labour offices. You could hear, among others. on the attempt to assign them to the government administration, i.e. to return to the state before 2000. I would like to ask the Minister if today we could hear in a few military words about the government's plans in this regard, whether there will be centralisation and possibly since. And will there be a change in the concept of how these offices operate? In general, what are we going to do? You're welcome, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u141	Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u142	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Helping young unemployed people is particularly important in terms of getting jobs as soon as possible and their contact with unemployment is as short as possible. Meanwhile, we had these periods when every third unemployed was a man up to the age of 25, as well as - sadly we should mention - it was the young people who felt the worst impact of the recent crisis. We should therefore try to ensure that young people move smoothly from education to employment, and that the possible time when they are registered at work offices is as short as possible. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What is the situation of young people in relation to the overall situation in the labour market? And what action is being taken to ensure that these people get employment as soon as possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u143	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u144	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the results of the BAEL, which has already been invoked here by several people, including the Minister. According to BAEL's analysis, 339, almost 340 thousand. unemployed people - really unemployed, i.e. those who are looking for jobs that are not working, first of all, but who are also willing to take up work - do not register with employment offices, do not register with employment offices. 340,000. - this is BAEL, the first quarter of this year. And these are mostly young people, educated and, by the way, most men, for whom the registration act itself is a gesture: I give up, I am not able to cope on the labour market alone. In order to confirm this, I can recall further data from BAEL, which shows that 70% unemployed are looking for work through friends and relatives. 70%. Record is the fourth quarter of 2016 - 73.5% the unemployed in this way seek employment, and only 65% by the employment offices. In 2015, it was 73%. I get the impression that what's been going on in the labour market lately is proof that the unemployed, instead of registering with the labour offices, register with the PiS. [[Oh, come on.]] They're signing up for the PiS, because here the effectiveness in looking for a job, it seems, is definitely higher. And so I have... [[Voice from the room: You're confusing with the Civic Platform.]] I recommend BAEL results and a deeper analysis of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This results in some adjustments, including statistical ones, indicating that this process is getting worse. [[So he was, he was.]] The question is whether the labour offices are able to win the competition with the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u145	Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this discussion, because it was needed, it is needed, and it will probably be necessary for a long time. I have to agree here with some of you that the labour offices, both voivodship and district offices, actually find jobs. But who? They find jobs for co-workers of presidents, marshals, when it comes to voivodships, and seniors when it comes to county. I didn't hear the employment offices find a job for someone normal. [[Applause]] Minister, I've worked in these institutions, too, and I remember. You mentioned Szydlowiec. I remember when several dozen bouquets for public money were trained in Szydłowiec. [[When was that?]] Minister, I'd like to hear such a simple question, which means a simple answer to a simple question. What are the employment offices for? Seriously. Are they here to compete with the ILOS? Are they here to compete with the CSO? Are they here to compete with companies that do it professionally because they're paid to find a job, not to find a job? Does it really make sense for us to hold on to these kinds of institutions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u147	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Monitoring of deficit and surplus professions is a process of systematic observation of labour market developments concerning the development of labour demand and the supply of labour resources in the territorial and professional cross-section. Monitoring is used to match job seekers' qualifications to employers' expectations. The monitoring also identifies the ranking of deficit and surplus professions, which is important for local education, as well as the identification of training needs for unemployed people. And I have a question here, Minister. Please tell us whether the Ministry controls the correlation between the training offer offered by the labour offices and the needs reported by employers or local labour market. I ask you this because it is the most often accused by employers that the market for training offers is so poor that it comes down only to training related to the professional preparation of the CV, with training of unemployed people in the field of handling forklifts, possibly making a driver's license. C. Believe me, I've looked through some of the training offers at the employment offices, and they're really very poor in relation to the needs that employers report. I also have one more question. Because when I look at the websites of work offices, I ask myself this question in relation to a bookmark that often appears, i.e. work abroad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are offers, or actually advertising of an employment agency that offers work abroad. Is it for us, so to speak, for our labour market correct, that we push through the employment agency of our employees abroad...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u149	Member, we're done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u150	...and at the same time we say that we have a shortage of workers in certain areas and sectors, especially in the agricultural sector? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz. I don't see your MP. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the Supreme Audit Chamber, the authorities have created appropriate organisational conditions for conducting traineeships and traineeships for students and graduates. However, the quality of the practices offered did not always reach the desired level. As a result, this affected their usefulness in obtaining employment. Meanwhile, student unemployment is one of the biggest problems in the labour market. I therefore ask you to answer the question: What steps does the Ministry intend to take to improve the quality and effectiveness of organised practices and traineeships? Here I will refer to one of the PSL Members who criticized us at all for bringing this up. I know PSL's gonna fight very hard for the labour offices, although I can see they're getting tired of this fight because their seats are empty. [[Applause]] Because if the labour offices were to disappear, then in fact people with PSL ID would have to start looking for this job themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the most dangerous phenomena in the labour market is the long-term unemployment. However, more than half of the unemployed are long-term unemployed. Moreover, despite the improvement in the labour market situation, the long-term unemployment rate has not fallen dynamically. Recent figures indicate that there are nearly 700,000 in the unemployment registers. long-term unemployed. This is a significant group of people who have a really big problem with getting a job. I would therefore like to ask whether the Ministry sees this problem and what kind of action is being taken to effectively combat long-term unemployment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From this speaker two weeks ago, one of your government's ministers announced that there would be no further discovery in the horse's region, which would mean that a few thousand people would be jobless. Therefore, the question is whether there is communication between you ministers. One minister decides: we reduce the number of jobs in the region, and therefore I understand that the Minister assumes responsibility and delegates to the office of employment in Konin a special programme which will enable the professional activation of these several thousand people without jobs. Is this thinking all over Poland, is that even thinking, or is the Minister of the Environment who made this decision working for himself at the moment, and the Minister will try to put out a fire when it becomes a reality? Is this going to be a follow-up, or are you going to be doing programs that are going to precede this disaster that the government's decision is about to cause? Minister, it seems that the reform you want to do will want to centralize, because that is the tendency of your government, you centralize everything. The question of whether this will actually be effective or whether the responsibility, even if due to the defeat in the horse region announced by the Minister, will undoubtedly be greater, will be clearly borne by the ministries. This may be better from this perspective, but, on the other hand, decentralisation is looking at problems in individual counties and reacting to them from the level of the county rather than from the level of the ministry. Minister, there is a strong increase in efficiency, and this has been seen since 2014, as a result of the reform. I'm glad you're talking about making the profiles more flexible. I also hope they'll be more [[♪ The bell ♪]] Appreciated workers who should be financially motivated according to the degree of difficulty in the region concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u157	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased that the debate on the functioning of labour offices is taking place today in Parliament, initiated by our club, by Kukiz15, but as we also hear among Members of both the governing party, Law and Justice, as well as Members of the Platform, questions arise. And that's good, because that's what we wanted most of all, to have a discussion about the functioning of an institution, which unfortunately we don't judge well. I say this from a multi-annual point of view, you can say, employer. I was only a customer of employment offices once as an unemployed person and I do not mention this meeting well, because one of the trainings I was posted to - it was about starting a new company - it was three more years, I was interrogated several times at the prosecution's office, because the company that conducted this training was extorting millions of zlotys from the labour office. On the other hand, I was also a multiple customer as an employer. I do not know if the Minister is aware of what the employer's cooperation looks like, who offers jobs, with the employment office. It looks like you're calling from the employment office and asking if you can't get someone to give you an internship? This is how internships work. I've been in this kind of training, and it looks like you're telling me which freezer I'm supposed to buy, because after two years, I'm gonna sell it the most expensive, with the least loss. So the question is whether these funds are being spent in the way we would like long-term jobs to be created, so that it is not just using certain indicators that you have activated a group of people. These indicators look very nice on paper, but if we look at the signal information that each of the parliamentary offices receives regularly from the labour offices, we will see that little is changing. In fact, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Although the unemployment rate is falling, praise her for it, I don't think...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u159	We're done here, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u160	...or we don't think, as a club, that it's a huge credit to the labour offices. But it's mostly mostly...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u161	Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u162	...due to the employers themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u163	You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, please observe the limit of 2 minutes, because we have a few more people left, and we're practically running out of time. Crossing the limit will end in the fact that the other people will not speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to raise one point in my speech, namely the question of the need to increase the supervision of government administration over the activities of district labour offices currently led by district governments, and specifically by seniors. Minister, it cannot be that the old-timer, who is responsible for complying with the law in this area, does not respect the Law of 20 April 2004 on the promotion of employment and the institutions of the labour market, calling on the Director to serve as a person who is not adequately employed in public employment services or other institutions of the labour market. That's 3 and 5 years, respectively. This happened in the district of Dąbrowski in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. A person who does not meet these criteria won a competition for the position of director. I would like to add here that, of course, the headmaster is from PSL, and the director is connected to the PSL environment. The control of the Małopolska Voivodeship Office revealed a gross violation of the provisions of the above-mentioned law. Laws. So? And nothing, Minister. Despite the audit recommendations and the decision of the Regional Administrative Court in Krakow, he continues to take this position. I hope that soon the government will force the county government to respect the current legislation. At the same time, I ask you to take an interest in this issue in the supervision procedure. My question: At what stage are the work in the Ministry on amending the provisions of the Act, so that the running of district labour offices is a task managed by government administration? Because it seems that this type of regulation is extremely necessary in our country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland has become a promised land for Ukrainian citizens. Last year we were visited by over 1,200 thousand. Ukrainians, most of whom have taken up work. Since the beginning of June, the European Union has abolished the visa requirement for the people of Ukraine, of which we are happy. Question to the Government: How in the context of the current law, the employment promotion law and the labour market institutions - was the second reading yesterday, new categories are introduced there: seasonal workers, short-term workers - how in the context of this law and the introduction of visa-free travel for Ukrainian citizens will all affect the labour market? Isn't the Minister worried about expanding the so-called? The gray area in employment? And what will be the role of the labour offices in this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber is absent, as I see, and so is Mr Marcin Duszek and Mr Piotr Polek, all of you are from the Law and Justice Club. So Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, also the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Are the labour offices working well today? Are the labour offices really functioning as the social need requires? We are aware that there is a lack of flexibility and appropriate matching in the work offices and instruments for activating the unemployed. This activation costs approx. 3 billion PLN per year and the effectiveness of forms offered by labour offices to their employees is 0.7% up to 3.8%. In the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the long-term objective of activation of the unemployed, namely to maintain employment, is too rarely achieved. Statistics show that, after internships and training of the labour office, most of the people who have used them either return quickly to the status of unemployed or if they already get a job, they are still unrelated to the subject of internship or training. In general, it is common opinion that too much money is spent on so-called. soft, senseless training projects, which is only for the benefit of training and consulting companies. Perhaps it is time to seriously consider the validity of the reform of labour offices. Centralising and moving under the control of government labour offices will make spending many billions of zlotys from the Labour Fund more effective. Question: "Can a possible reform help to improve the efficiency of the work of labour offices?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u169	Thank you very much. And Mr Mieczysław Miazga, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u170	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent years, labour offices have played a major role in the fight against unemployment, in my opinion very positive. But there are questions. Why hasn't insurance been taken out of employment offices - and this is a few hundred thousand dependants - and is there a plan to change this? Second question: Why are the same indicators measured by the work of authorities in rich and poor areas, in large and small districts - this system is very harmful to large districts with high unemployment - and is there a intention to change this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The unemployment rate recorded at the end of May 2017 was 7.5%. It has been the lowest since 1991 and is expected to decrease further. Therefore, I have a question about the link between the fall in unemployment and the grey area in employment, i.e. It's about hiring black workers. Are the labour offices cooperating in this regard with the State Labour Inspection? Are unemployed people who have not found legal work and have been registered outside the employment records and who may possibly be employed in the grey area, being monitored in some way for their further destiny, for their further professional activity, or is this outside the interest of the labour offices? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u173	Thank you very much. And the last of my fellow Members, Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice. But I don't think there's an MP. We have therefore concluded our speeches by Members. Now I will ask Mrs Agnieszka to pursue as the representative of the applicants for the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I'll start with this quote from a friendly uncle who once told me this: hire a clerk for three months, and he'll prove to you that you need three years. Unfortunately, Minister, I took a little bit of your response to the debate on the labour offices that I allowed myself to raise, not now, just a year ago, and to which I invited you. Unfortunately, in many of your answers, I have seen great contradictions. First of all, I will start with the proposed centralisation, because I agreed with your statements on the fact that there is indeed diversity in regions, in ways of addressing the unemployed, in terms of how it looks different in different places, in terms of different costs. And that's what centralization is supposed to be the answer to. This is a contradiction for me, because if we want to solve problems, then logic usually indicates that problems are solved the closest and most effectively, in depth, to know them. From the central point in Warsaw it is really very difficult. Second matter of centralization. You've all stressed and agreed with me that the most difficult customer who's in work offices and with whom work offices can't handle at all... You pointed out, Mrs Bernadette Krynicka has even pointed out that there is actually no effect on customers who have the furthest to the labour market because they have other problems. These problems are most often solved as part of social assistance. This is the second system that also costs. These are the most common customers who are here and here. They've been in these two systems for years, and they've been on a pot with the state for years. And it's really just an individual approach to these people, not a public procurement approach from the public office, with a large number of customers. If we don't approach this client, we won't diagnose him and his family, we won't solve his problem in any way, and he'll always be in our employment records. That's why centralization isn't the answer for me at all. I would like to say to Mrs Mrzygłocka that if I am speaking on this subject, I will tell you that I have devoted 22 years of my professional work to activating disfellowshipped and inactive persons, also in the employment offices, really also implementing innovative European projects, and on the basis of these projects and from my experience I know that this is the institution which is not because it has incompetent officials... I have absolutely nothing to do with civil servants here, because there really are very smart, very skilled people working there. On the other hand, the system entered into central management, where they are burdened with 20 laws that tell them how to function, does not allow for a flexible way of working, nor for them to choose training individually, nor for them to approach individually. Because if a professional advisor has 1,000 clients, I'm sorry if one career counselor's advice is 40 minutes, then how will he serve them for 8 hours even as many days a week? So I absolutely disagree that centralization will cure this situation. Just an individual approach. I would go even further with reaching out to the unemployed, directing it to the municipalities and linking these two systems. I was talking about the fact that I had previously proposed, for a year I had been having a debate about this with specialists, with practices, with all those who are involved in helping unemployed people, and they will all confirm to you that efficiency is not spending money. Because, unfortunately, you said that the employment offices were efficient, you quoted the amounts we spent on internships, how much we spent on training. Effectiveness is jobs, that is high qualifications, that is above all a positive assessment of employers and clients of employment offices. And unfortunately, this efficiency, first of all, is not measured, because the indicators you're showing are the 3-month employment rate. This is not any effect, but this is simply the effect most often measured by the same tool, which is for 3 months we go to an internship - an internship that we finance from the same - and that is already the effect. So here we're not talking about any efficiency, because it's really very badly measured, and we don't know what it looks like, we can only suggest an opinion, and it's negative, especially if we're talking about employers, we have NGOs. Dear Members, to be clear, I have triggered this debate not because I want to destroy everything - it is to the Members of the PSL - and to destroy everything. Activation of the unemployed is needed as much as possible, because this is the task that we have also included in the Lisbon Strategy and which stems from all other social needs, that is the most important, but the discussion is about efficiency and effectiveness, ladies and gentlemen. The cost of maintaining work offices that are really inefficient... Because there are no bad workers there - they are actually poorly paid - only this system is really ineffective and ineffective. Let's think about the reform, and let's not prove who's sitting in the office of work and whose political side he's sitting on, because it's the money of the Poles and we're supposed to act effectively. I invite you to debate. I am glad that she enjoyed such great interest today, because I believe that this really raises various concerns. Minister, please, not like this clerk to defend his position, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just really think about the reform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u175	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to speak with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this debate. It was a substantive debate, except for a few minor malices. I think we needed this debate. I think that if you had listened to my first statement, it would not have been as you summarised it. I didn't say everything was great, that it was okay, I told you we needed this debate and the changes that we're preparing. I would say this: after this debate, I have even more doubts on issues related to labour market reform. On the one hand, if you understand centralization in such a way that as a minister, I will point to what needs to be done in every district, then absolutely not, not that centralization. But if we are talking about the various examples that you have given from different sides of the plenary room, then if I have any influence on this, I must have instruments. I don't have those instruments today. I can't respond to a situation that's pathological or evil, and it is. There were questions, even specific groups were mentioned, such situations happen. Today, I am unable to respond to this situation. In this respect, it is about changing subjection, not about... Changing submission with even greater, much more flexibility for directors of labour offices, because it has to be done there. Today these instruments are quite tight, so to speak, stiffened. I told you, among other things. About profiling to change that. Second line. I'm not gonna go into specific questions, although I've got all of them listed here, I'm gonna refer to them, but I'm gonna group it up a little bit more. It was one thing. The second point: when it comes to changing subjection, this was already in the debate raised, labour offices use European funds, both from the PO WER and from other programmes in a good way. These programmes are in place until 2020 in accordance with the signed agreements. We're not gonna change it, we're gonna eliminate it, we're gonna set it up differently. But we cannot afford to have this system of European funds stopped or blocked at some point. This will not be the case, and here please don't be afraid, if that's the case. National Training Fund. As far as the National Training Fund is concerned, on the one hand we have undertaken various attempts to improve the situation, but on the other hand we also see pathologies that occurred in the National Training Fund. We even changed the fact that at the moment it doesn't matter that someone clicks first and will register for a training company, because there were a lot of such situations, signals about irregularities in training. We want to change that as much as possible. In accordance with our guidelines, also in line with the guidelines of the Labour Market Council, we are giving groups to which training is to be specifically directed. But the training is carried out by the seniors and the voivodship labour offices, which coordinate it, so that this is another example of whether or not we have an impact in this area. If you're giving examples of training that are nonsense, then that's... [[But these are old examples.]] As I say, the ministry has no influence on this, and in this respect we also want to sort it out in some way. A very important issue, which we have been talking about for many years, is the health contribution. This is a case we're trying to solve. At the moment, the Ministry of Health is working on this on the occasion of a reform on the coverage of health insurance for all citizens in our country. If this is the decision, if this is the project, it will solve the problem of registering unemployed people who register only because they want health insurance. We are also considering the situation of social assistance and the confirmation on the labour market. I think we're gonna keep it that way, so there's some kind of connection instrument, I mean, I'd say cross-compliance. But it is also worth noting that it is not so that all persons who are registered benefit from benefits. Today 14.5% people receive unemployment benefits and the rest are outside unemployment benefits. We can give them proposals, job offers, other training opportunities or, if they do not take up the proposed job, delete them from the registers. But directly 14.5% benefits from unemployment benefits. The question which was raised here by the state also concerned the long-term unemployed. Of course, this is a completely different situation. We have a very difficult, so to speak, unemployed wallet, we have almost 57% long-term unemployed persons, i.e. unemployed over 12 months. We have the so-called. Inherited unemployment, i.e. from generation to generation, people are unemployed, also benefit from other social transfers. But we also know very well that in order to reach such a person, it is not enough to spend a few minutes at the employment office. Many times this work must be much longer, which is why we want to put strong emphasis on advisers in these changes, on those who directly convince such a person first of all that it is worth working because many people today simply do not take up work. We want - and such a bill will go to you - improving the financial situation of employees of labour offices, because unfortunately here the local government, I say briefly, does not care enough about its employees in terms of pay issues, keep 5% plus 2% for efficiency plus special prizes. We want to leave it, which is where there's more efficiency... As for the issues that you have raised, the examination of this efficiency, we are still changing the relevant indicators to make sure that... But what do the indicators have to do to test this efficiency? We're working on this, too, and we want to keep it going. This was the question: this mechanism works until 2017. We will ask the High House to extend this period to the following years. We've already had a decision about quite systemic changes, and then it could be solved differently. Questions about specific questions. There was a question about training. How much money do we spend? 3,85% He's going to work with the Labour Fund. Almost 53 percent efficiency. If we look at all the instruments, training is best in this regard. Of course, it is possible to discuss the level of efficiency. We have 13 factors to check the effectiveness of individual work offices. These cases were the subject of our work, too. We are still changing this to address this issue even more effectively. Here Mr Duda presented the act of Marshal Piłsudski. Everyone would dream that we would have two-sided laws, not a hundred, but today we live in a slightly different time and these solutions are. Certainly, the change concerning the submission of labour offices and the restoration of their government administration could simplify the law, as in this respect this greater flexibility would be transferred to the level of the county or voivodship labour office. But, as I say, not on the basis of centralization, not that we're gonna finger-point what to do in a given region, because there is absolutely no such situation. Special programs. Yes, we would like to see greater potential for impact through special programmes. One of the Members here gave an example of a situation where there may be redundancies. Today there are not many possibilities, although in some cases we have the possibility of launching special programs. Here the votes are from the most extreme, about the liquidation of the labour offices, to those... I think that most of you, however, recognise that employment offices are needed. There is a need to improve and change their functioning, so we are preparing a deeper amendment to the Employment Promotion Act and to the institutions of the labour market, and I am calling it the Labour Market Act. I think that this debate has shown that we are able to prepare a new law in Parliament, which will serve us all and, above all, will serve both people who benefit from the help of the labour office to find a job, who are looking for new jobs, and entrepreneurs who are looking for people on the labour market. Here, full consent, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not like everyone's going to the employment office. We wish that the employment office would be an institution that everyone wants to come to and in which they get help. But we know that this is a specific group of people who are long-term unemployed and who need to spend more time. In this respect, too, the labour office is essential. Many years ago, 20 years ago, I was on a foreign trip. At the time, I was watching - also with high unemployment - how unemployment issues are set out there. One clerk had four wards. It was in France. I thought it was completely absurd. In our case, there are 160 people per official, 80 people, 300 people per official. How is this supposed to work? So let's try to find better solutions here. I think that this debate was needed to this extent. So that I thank everyone for the good debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u177	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the 2015 report of NIK, more than 20 thousand. officials employed in more than 350 employment offices are working on more than 460 thousand professional activities. registered unemployed. This activation cost approx. 3 billion PLN per year, and we know that the effectiveness of the forms offered by UP to their patents increased in 2016, unemployment decreased. The Minister spoke in his speech about a significant reduction in unemployment. One of the topics of the parliamentary team on solving the problems of the county-dominant Poland, which I am president, was just discussed today. There was a minister at the meeting of this team. We have learned that, under the same measures, the effectiveness of employment for the unemployed is expected to increase. Minister, what action will the Ministry take to reduce unemployment in county-dominant Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy plans to increase the impact on the functioning of labour offices. On the one hand, it will be linked to greater responsibility and on the other hand, labour offices are to gain freedom to spend money from EU funds and the Labour Fund. Currently, the Ministry has reservations about profiling the unemployed into three categories. The Ministry believes that this is another bureaucracy of labour offices, and the division is very rigid and needs to be made more flexible. It also raises reservations as to the commissioning of private services to those who receive money for activating the unemployed. Experience has shown that several large agencies have taken over these activities. The National Convention of Directors of District Labour Offices confirms that the low-precision rules on the use of funds collected in KFS are a field for abuse by employers and training companies that overcharge their services. In this way, the funds from the National Training Fund are not fully controlled, and these are public funds. In connection with these reservations, I am asking the labour department: Is there a decision on the new labour market law already taken and is there a final position of the Ministry on the transfer of labour offices to the government administration?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u180	Before we get to the next point, I'd like to say hello to the ladies from the village hostels' circles from Wieliczka. It's very nice to meet you. [[Applause]] I wish you a pleasant stay in the Sejm, enjoyable events from the plenary room, gallery, but also from the kuluars. I also greet the other side, although I do not know where you are from. But like the ladies of Wieliczka, I wish you a pleasant stay in the Seym. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act (Prints No 1509 and 1646). I would like to ask Mrs Agatha Borowiec to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u181	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act. The Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 20 June 2017, adopted a report on the submission of four amendments. These amendments aim to clarify the provision for live fish intended for sale as regards their being kept in an aquatic environment. Further amendments aim to mitigate and limit the prohibition on all activities and occupations and any activities which are related to the use or impact of animals, to the prohibition on the conduct and pursuit of the activities, occupations and activities relating to the use of animals, as appropriate, or to their impact. In addition, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights accepted the editorial comments submitted by the Legislative Bureau. The committees ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill together with the four amendments adopted by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u182	Thank you very much, Member. Stay, Member, so that you do not prolong - because you will speak on behalf of the club in a moment. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I am asking Mrs Agatha Borowiec to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u183	Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft Law amending the Law of 21 August 1997 on the protection of animals and the related provisions contained in the Penal Code, together with the amendments adopted. Undoubtedly, amendments to this draft law are necessary. The continuous increase in the number of offences affecting the life and health of animals, including those in a qualified form, is an undeniable basis for concluding that the current criminal legislation does not fulfil its function. The draft is a response to existing problems, primarily introducing increased penalties for killing animals and animal abuse, as well as a mandatory judgment on the purpose of social organisations' activities, on the objective of protecting animals when convicted of an offence against animal life and animal health. In order to achieve the effectiveness of the bans in question, the draft law introduces very much needed regulations on the ways in which courts and other institutions, in particular at local level, comply with those prohibitions by offenders throughout the period for which they have been ordered. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club supports the draft law and the four amendments tabled and adopted at the joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. These amendments introduce changes which aim to clarify the rules by limiting their scope. It is considered that live fish intended for sale should only be kept in an aquatic environment, as opposed to the requirement to keep fish for other purposes, e.g. as part of a farm in which it is permitted, in accordance with professional guidelines, to temporarily keep fish without water, of course, provided that they are able to breathe. Amendments concerning Article. 35 Acts are also intended to mitigate the prohibition on all activities and occupations and any activities related to the use or impact of animals. The Law and Justice Club also fully agrees with these amendments. To sum up, High Izbo, this project is undoubtedly designed to address existing problems and will certainly help to improve the situation in the area of animal rights protection. The Law and Justice Club supports this government bill, together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to submit information and express my opinion on the government proposal for a law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act, as well as on the print report No 1646. As I said in my earlier speech, for the first time, on the draft law from print No. 1509, this law is needed and the Civic Platform warmly accepted that the Ministry was meeting animals. But even then I said that there were some mistakes about this bill, about this change. One mistake has been eliminated and voted out in committee, and there is no longer a report of this error as regards, as the previous speaker said, the carriage of fish in the aquatic environment. This amendment of the Platform, which I personally submitted, and I am very pleased that the PiS Club supported this amendment. However, it is not understandable for me to make further amendments at first reading in committee, it is a matter of changes to the paragraph. Points (e) and (f) of Article 4 with a consequence. 38b. Hence the Civic Platform, wanting this project to be good, goes out to the ministry and proposes to restore the original record that came out of the ministry. We will therefore make one such amendment. The second amendment, which improves your proposal, concerns Article. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The state in your project is written in your mouth. 6: The collected animal, if alive, shall be returned after the end of the prohibition period. This is a wrong and incomprehensible provision, because it cannot be such a situation that after the end of the period of prohibition prescribed by the court - after a period of, I do not know, six months, three years, five years - the animal returns to the executioner. The Civic Platform Club therefore proposes deleting this provision. And another amendment that the Platform Club would like to propose and recommend, in which case the Platform Club would like to ask the Law and Justice Club to agree to this, is a change in the article. 38a. We would like it to be in place of the deleted mouth. 6 a provision was made for this paragraph to be introduced. 6 is replaced by the following: In the event of a breach of the prohibition or order referred to in paragraph. 1 court ruling an animal's forfeiture. We discussed this point in a slightly different form at the committee meeting. We've come to the conclusion that it's really worth listening to the voice of the legislators, and we've changed it a little bit. We're not referring to an art. 244 Penal Code, because it was the main charge that in the case of art. 38a does not match the entry referring directly to Article. 244 criminal code. Hence the modification of this provision and the understanding of the situation that most of these articles concern Article. 244. So that's where the record came from. I'll give you the marshal these three amendments. At the same time, I have a request to the Law and Justice Club to bend over these amendments tabled by the Civic Platform Club and not reject them from the vending machine. [[We accepted it last night.]] I hope that these necessary changes, when it comes to increasing penalties in particular, will produce a good result in the case of animal protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u187	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u188	On behalf of the Kukiz Club15 Piotr Apel. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very happy that this good bill, because, as a rule, it's good... [[Coming in the right direction.]] ...is so successful among all parliamentarians. Thank you very much to the authors of this bill for preparing it. I am also pleased that I attended the meeting of the committee that dealt with this law. There, this discussion was very substantive, and it did not fit into the discussions on many other laws so far. The Kukiz Club15, of course, will support this bill because there is no reason not to. Indeed, the amendments tabled by Mr Dunin are as substantive and worthy as possible to support them as well. They introduce certain regulations that will lead to a better and more effective application of this law. We all agree that the abuse of animals is an act absolutely demanding condemnation and absolutely demanding of the Polish state's response. Those who are capable of being cruel to animals are dangerous to society and must simply be separated, perhaps during reeducation. It's a good thing this bill is being processed, it's a good thing it's going in the normal way, it's a good thing it was well discussed during the committee meeting. I hope it comes into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u191	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments proposed at yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights have brought forward the change that we expected, for which we have spoken out loud, and thank you very much, namely the word "water" in the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 point 18 of the Animal Protection Act, amending the wording to: transport of live fish or retain them for sale without providing sufficient water for breathing. This is the right amendment, which we fully support. Other amendments aim to ease the provisions proposed in the draft procedure, print No 1509. These amendments proposed and voted by the PiS Members at the committee's meeting will make it impossible for the court to prohibit the sentenced person for the abuse of animals of all professions or activities related to the use of animals or their impact. Previously, this possibility was predicted. This change is missed by the purpose of separating the animals from those who abuse animals. It is doubtful that a person who abuses a living being has enough sensitivity not to abuse a living being of another species under other circumstances. The lack of respect for animals results from a general rather than a selective lack of sensitivity to their suffering. It is unacceptable to provide for the return of animals owned by a convicted animal after a period of ban on the possession of animals when the animal concerned is not the one to whom he was convicted. This issue should be regulated as soon as possible, which is why we support as much as possible the amendment tabled by the PO today so that the animal taken from the sentenced person has the chance to find himself a new permanent residence and the owner who will keep the animal. This is particularly important for pets who attach themselves to the caretaker. The proposal does not propose an extension of the possibility for a court of criminal measures to apply conditional termination of proceedings. In such cases, in accordance with the applicable rules, the court must impose an obligation on the perpetrator to remedy the damage and may rule on the measures referred to therein, but there is no prohibition on the possession of animals. In the case of conditionally decommitted proceedings, the court should be able to prohibit the holding of animals or a particular category of animals or the pursuit of a particular profession, the pursuit of certain activities or activities requiring authorisation which are related to the use of animals. It is worth noting that the legal standards that are contained in the Animal Protection Act may need to be effective in preparing a new law. Non-governmental organisations involved in animal protection, which are in contact with the selective application or circumvention of the provisions of the Act on a daily basis, call for a much wider range of necessary amendments to the Act than those proposed. The Supreme Audit Chamber, in its conclusions of the inspection of the animal homeless carried out in 2016, also indicated that it was necessary to do so. One of the common problems identified by NGOs and which the proposed amendment does not solve is the question of deliberateness in relation to animal offences. The Supreme Court, in a loud case against a person charged with bear abuse, stated in its statement that the offence of animal abuse could only be committed intentionally, and only with direct intent. Abuse is, on the other hand, any of the ones mentioned in Article. 2 (2) 2 Laws on how to deal directly with an animal which must be targeted directly by the perpetrator. Thus, the intention refers to the act itself, not to causing suffering or pain. Today, prosecutors very often refer to this part of the justification of the Supreme Court by dying to investigate abuse. David Karaś, author of the report "As Poles abuse animals," emphasizes that the authorities applying the law do not take into account the suffering of animals, which is a side effect of non-targeted man's actions. On the occasion of the consultation on the proposed project, NGOs also pointed this out. EU legislation in the Animal Protection Act has not yet been implemented. In conclusion, the Members' Club Modern is willing to support this law, which is going in a very good direction, although it has many, many mistakes. I hope that tomorrow, at the time of the vote, we will be able to accept the amendments that were proposed, especially the latter, but we welcome this amendment on the deletion of the word "water." It should also be pointed out that this project still does not cover the need for amendments to the Animal Protection Act and after these modifications the Act will require [[♪ The bell ♪]] subsequent amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u192	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act, contained in print No 1509. The aim of this project is to improve the legal protection of animals against brutal and unworthy human treatment. Undoubtedly, the purpose and noble principles of the bill are not controversial. Those who abuse animals not only deserve to be punished but should also have an obligation to make amends to animal organisations, e.g. shelters. It is good that the country will be more active than ever to protect the welfare of animals. Undoubtedly, we have had a large gap in this regard so far. However, in a broader sense, it is not possible to abstract ourselves from the situation of people. You can't still see in the draft laws protecting citizens from false accusations. There is doubt that high references will not be an incentive to bring unsubstantiated or questionable reports. It would be worthwhile to find a golden measure on this occasion, so as to protect animals effectively, also to create effective protection for people against talk. On this occasion, I will consistently return to the so-called issue. ritual slaughter, which the ban imposed a few years ago led to billions of losses of the Polish economy, not just agriculture. Today there is no longer a ban, but it will take many years to rebuild the meat industry, to return to that state which was then. This is an example of how animals and humans were not properly weighed down, how noble, pro-animal motives caused huge losses, and how animals were slaughtered in a ritual manner, so they went on, only beyond the borders of our country. Today we face a similar problem: we want to help animals, but at the same time we should take care of the interests of their owners. The question is whether the victims of this bill will not be those who keep the dog in a little too small a pen while feeding it, nurturing it, providing veterinary protection. What about older people who care about their animals, but also not always, due to age, are able to properly care for these animals, e.g. in a little bit behind a tight apartment in a tenement? I am afraid that after the proposed law comes into force, we will hear about the cases of punishing such persons, often very harshly. We should already do away with the degenerates and sadists, who should be dealt with by the hands of justice, from people who sometimes simply require help or awareness in what they do when it comes to keeping their pets, who, in a difficult situation, are not always able to take care of the welfare of animals without harming them without being beastly oppressors. Unfortunately, after work in committee, there are no changes in the project to avoid such situations, to avoid punishing this category of people and to focus on helping these people for the benefit of themselves and their animals. High Izbo! The severity and inevitability of the penalty are important, and I stress this for the second time. However, without adequate information, without systematically raising the level of knowledge about caring for the situation of animals, including in this legal aspect, without realizing what conditions should be created for them, we will not achieve the intended purpose of the bill. I think it's worth being clear at this point. Let us find understanding of the situation of humans and animals and find balance in it. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, in agreement with the positions presented by the previous speakers, is also in favour of leading to the adoption of this law. However, as I pointed out in the previous paragraph, we see here a very big need for many accompanying actions to be fully [[♪ The bell ♪]] exhaust the aim of the project's designers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u194	Thank you very much. As far as the Free and Solidarnia area is concerned, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a written statement. Eight people were included on the list of Members wishing to ask questions. Would any of you like to sign up for this list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. You are beginning Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an extremely important act, as we have information every day about animal abuse. You can even feel that the situation is alarming, because the catfish of animals are getting younger Poles. And on top of that, they're flaunting themselves. In Środa Śląska a few days ago, teenagers lit a hedgehog on fire and published a movie on the Internet. Perhaps you have seen this. It's just horrible. The Lębork juniors recorded them killing a cat in May. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister about actions that would prevent such events. What education solutions, what information activities will be put in place? Are they even in this matter? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Any suggestions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u196	Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u197	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the wildest circumstances, I didn't think I'd be able to praise Minister Patrick Jaki. This is his project, he prepared it and conducted it through interministerial arrangements. Only that this project was much better than at the moment, it is the report of the joint committees, because you have corrupted these records. And from this point on, I would like to appeal and ask for the amendments which have been tabled by the Civic Platform, because you allow the abused animal taken from the wicked man who was convicted by the court after the end of the period of ban on the possession of animals to return to him. It's extremely psychic. And I assure you, Minister, such cases happen. That's why in this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Patryk, who has just suggested that if an animal is taken away, there should not be such a situation that it must return to the oppressor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If the amendments tabled by the Civic Platform club would not, however, be supported by the majority, because this might happen, please answer the question whether the Ministry will lean on this issue on the basis of these amendments and will present a change to this draft amendment in the near future. The direction of action for animal protection appears to be appropriate and should be implemented. And my question: Will the Ministry lean on this problem, which today is not included or misunderstood in the draft amendment presented by the Ministry, and whether it can be expected that the Ministry [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will it continue to promote animal protection? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u200	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Education is a very important element of animal protection law, because only education will make the understanding of the suffering of animals and their needs complete. Hence my question: Are there any actions or social campaigns planned, or educational activities in schools, in kindergartens, e.g. like Denmark, where such classes are conducted or lessons in empathy towards animals, beings that are weaker than us? Are such projects planned, carried out? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u202	Thank you. Mr Stefan Strzałkowski, Club Law and Justice. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that we are moving very forward in the protection of animals and these statutory provisions give the possibility, the instrument to make animals better protected. On the other hand, my question is: Do we have ways and proper services that will be able to supervise it in such a way that these provisions of the Act can actually be implemented so that they do not remain merely records? And the second question: How do you get to society, do you have such ideas that this law should not be known just for how it is often defined that the ignorance of the law does not release responsibility? I think it is very desirable here and necessary that a young part of society, but also older people, somehow educate and introduce into these new regulations, so that this law actually [[♪ The bell ♪]] She could have functioned normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u204	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u205	Minister! The measure of humanity is really not only how we can treat another human being, especially helpless, but also how we can treat other beings. Therefore, this bill, going in a very good direction, as you can see, all clubs have great will to support. However, it seems to me that, because there have been some doubts here, very important doubts, it might be worth slowing down the work and working more closely on the provisions that would strengthen this law. It is unacceptable, as has already been said here, that a skated animal may return after a certain period of taking the catfish into his hands. It's just unthinkable. The issue of education, of course, on every level. Yesterday we were debating a law on education reform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, there is nothing in the educational program about empathy and the treatment of animals. And one more short sentence. I think it is also worthwhile to ensure that people who have a conscience are convicted of being tortured by a non-animal, unable in the future to occupy protective positions or social functions that could involve caring for animals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! At first I wanted to support the amendments of the Civic Platform, they are thoughtful and I would very much like to ask you to give a positive opinion, because this law will bring much greater benefits, ladies and gentlemen. The welfare of animals depends on humans, their attitude towards smaller beings. The introduction of penalties is often necessary to change behaviour, to prevent such great harms that occur in our country, but not only. But what has already been said - social education is very important. I'm joining these voices. I would like to say that in my town, in Jelenia Góra, there is a shelter for animals that schoolchildren, school children visit very often. They feed animals, they take care of them. It's a great science. And I ask whether, according to the Ministry of Justice, education in this area is sufficient. Does the Ministry have any ideas with the Ministry of National Education in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u208	Thank you. And the last question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u209	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Does the Ministry see the need for further amendments to the Animal Protection Act, which were to prohibit the keeping of pet animals in prison, namely simply on the chain, in a permanent manner or for example. A ban on keeping animals in circuses, using them in circuses and touring menageries? When can such changes be expected? And is that the direction you're going? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u210	Thank you very much, Member. And with this question, we closed the list of Members who were assigned to the question. And I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michał Wosia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u211	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you, also on behalf of Minister Patrick Jaki, who initiated and carried out this bill, for such efficient work, for your work in committees and for other informal meetings. As you can imagine, I am replacing the Minister as far as this bill is concerned, so I will allow myself as much as I can to address these questions you have asked. But undoubtedly, the common position of all clubs in support of the initiatives undertaken deserves to be noted and praised in order to strengthen the penalties. We also want the protection of animals to be as broad as possible and to make it effective for you to do so. First of all, I will refer to the amendments. Amendment from the committee, joint amendment on fish, so that I thank the Law and Justice Club for submitting this amendment and repeating it by the Civic Platform club. On the other hand, on the second amendment, which has also been tabled today, as regards the forfeiture, Article. 38, legislators raise some reservations because this amendment would be applicable to the enforcement procedure, and at the moment there is de facto no possibility of a decision on the forfeiture. Criminal law does not know such a measure as to give effect to a form of confiscation in enforcement proceedings. These are so far-reaching changes that, of course, we will undertake some analyses in this area, we will probably invite representatives of animal rights organisations to meet and we will continue to think about this. For us, however, it is very important that this law, which is a really good law, which is the first law for years to tighten the penalty for animal abuse, which improves relations with associations and foundations, with the third sector, is really needed, necessary, so we want this law to be implemented quickly so that it can enter into force. So that, in this respect, when we answer questions about a possible further analysis, of course we will be conducting this further analysis. In the field of education, it must be said that the law provides for a mandatory introduction of a levy of 1 000. Up to 100,000. zł and these links will be devoted to third sector organisations, non-governmental organisations which have as their task the statutory defence of animal rights, including education, so we are convinced that these NGOs will be able to deal with this very well. On the other hand, an absolute lie, a false one - and this must be made clear - is what may be the result of a misunderstood understanding of the rules. Mr Suski of the Civic Platform claimed that the catted animal would return to its owner. Absolutely not, sir, the bill introduces a mandatory loss in such a case. The animal is lost. [[Oh, no, Minister. Oh, no.]] Absolutely, then, in writing in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u212	Mr President, this is not a discussion time. There will still be a committee, then it will be possible to discuss there, now the minister only responds. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: There was another question, ladies and gentlemen, about possible security services. Here, too, the prosecutor's office has increased its effectiveness in this area, but we are convinced that strengthening the third sector also financially - a link that will be passed on to organisations - will also lead to better protection, so-called. animal guards. So thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your work. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the widespread abuse of animals, the government's efforts to amend the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act are extremely enjoyable. The regulations proposed in the revision aim to introduce more severe penalties for the killing of animals and to introduce mandatory measures to protect them. In my opinion, these solutions can become an effective educational element. However, this is not going to happen - as I emphasized in my previous position - if the perpetrators do not feel the inevitability of punishment for their actions. I consider action in this direction to be targeted and effective. Raising the limits of penalties alone at a time when the responsible are still going to shy away from responsibility may not be enough. However, I hope that the solution that is being taken today to increase the level of penalties will be the first step that the government will take towards the protection of animals, and that it will not stop there. I also agree with the irregularities identified at the meeting of the committee, inter alia. on the return of the animals to the owner after the end of the prohibition on their possession. For the duration of the ban, animals are staying in shelters or foster homes and I do not think they should return to their oppressor. An animal in another new environment is attached to it, and a constant change of owner has a bad effect on its condition. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, adopting this bill as the beginning of the government's fight against beasty against animals, will, despite doubt, vote in favour of further proceding on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u214	As amendments to the proposed bill were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the I ask Elizabeth Duda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u215	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present the report on the committee's meeting in print no. 1638 and 1642 on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the "For Life" programme. The government of the Republic of Poland is doing everything it can to protect life, so it presented to the High House a programme of protection of life in December Ub. r. - a programme to support families, mothers who decide to give birth and raise children from so-called. difficult pregnancies, as well as families who raise disabled children. The proposed changes are a further step towards the implementation of the actions identified in the comprehensive support programme for the families of Mon. For life. This includes, among others, changes to the Act on the Education System which provide assistance to pregnant schoolchildren, the establishment of coordination and rehabilitation centres with particular regard to early child support, changes to the Act on Social Assistance which will enable voivodships to increase up to 30% of grants per participant with combined disabilities or spectrum of autism, the creation of sheltered and training housing in order to develop the independence of the disabled person. The next changes are changes to the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. They predict among others. the financing of activities for the running of crèches, children's clubs with places for disabled children or in the provision of rehabilitation services, reimbursement of equipment and equipment costs. For these entities, there is a possibility of hiring a person in the middle of working time, fewer children per carer, and a lack of interest on the financial assistance provided, making it easier on the labour market by encouraging the setting up of social cooperatives. The amendment to the Law on the provision of public-funded health care is a comprehensive implementation of a support programme for families. Changes to the Family Support Act and the foster care system - local governments will continue to support financial tasks supporting families and foster care systems. The government project was submitted in the Sejm on 14 June and on 16 June this year. was directed to first reading. On 20 June this year. a committee meeting took place. The Commission accepted the following amendments: The 1st Amendment of the Legislative Bureau concerned small changes in ordering, also received a request from minorities, two amendments were tabled by Ms Agnieszka Pursuit. They concerned the completion of the Article. 3, Article 2 in point 2, in Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and 9 as follows: public benefit activities and voluntary activities. Both amendments were rejected by the committee. The government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the programme was adopted by 22 votes in favour and 1 abstentions. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, following its first reading of the print project No 1638 and 1642 on 20 June 2017, requests the High Sejm to adopt the committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u216	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the program. The entry into force of a comprehensive support for families, whose purpose is to support people with disabilities and their families, is needed and expected by the environments that need such assistance. The proposed changes include: assistance to pregnant schoolchildren, including the provision of services and boarding schools for such students, the establishment of coordination and rehabilitation centres, including early child support, enabling voivodships to increase up to 30% of grants per environmental participant in the home of self-help. This is extremely important because people with combined disabilities and the spectrum of autism in the current situation often find no place in environmental self-help homes. In addition, the proposed amendments provide for the creation of preferential conditions for carers of disabled persons to set up economic activities, enable unemployed carers to take up work in the form of teleworking, encourage entrepreneurs to hire carers of disabled persons. It is also the support of carers of disabled people in their daily duties. The catalogue of persons considered to be in a particular situation in the labour market is also extended. Additional tasks are imposed on the assistant of the family. Given that the proposed law will provide support for disabled people and their families and will have a positive impact on the activities of entrepreneurs, even in terms of the use of refunds for the provision of jobs, the Law and Justice Club fully supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u218	Thank you very much. And Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of my Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present our position on the draft law on amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the "For Life" programme. However, before I go to the substance of the bill, unfortunately, I must pay attention to the way it is processed. Well, the first project of 27 March went to the public consultation at the beginning of April. At that time, it did not impose a new task on the counties as defined in Article. 1 of the draft Article. 90. 1 creation of coordination and rehabilitation and care centres. Thus, the district government directly concerned could not address this in the course of the consultation. It was only on 1 June that a new project was submitted to the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. This is all the more controversial because Art. 1 concerning Article 90. 2 states that the Minister responsible for Education and Education may provide local government units with financial support in the form of a targeted grant for these tasks. Minister, maybe it doesn't mean "must." We believe that, as a result of the new task of setting up or setting up coordination and rehabilitation centres, financial support should be carried out in a mandatory manner. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform makes an amendment accordingly. I hope that the Law and Justice Club will support it, unless you really do not intend to finance local governments for the new tasks imposed on them by the creation of these centres. With regard to the other amendments that are in the Act, I can say that they concern actually five laws. And yes: these are changes to the Education Act on the creation of already discussed centres, then changes to the Social Assistance Act, where it is referred to increasing grants to 30% per participant in the DS in the case of persons with combined disabilities or the spectrum of autism. Further changes apply, among others. to sheltered apartments, introduce division into training and supported apartments. We believe that sheltered housing is one of the best forms of social assistance. Therefore, every support, every development requires absolute support. And that kind of support from our club, of course. There he is. The question arises: Will the local government, when deciding to create sheltered housing in its territory, have the support of the government? The question is also how this support could look. Further changes are changes to the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. They provide support for carers of people with disabilities in their return to the labour market. These changes are very good. Other changes concern the Act on the provision of health care or about supporting the family and the foster care system. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support this bill, of course, given the amendment I make at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u220	Thank you very much. And I will ask Mrs Monica Rosa to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. [[Your Marshal...]] I am really sorry, my fellow Member, I'm really sorry. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15. I'd be delighted to invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u221	Marshal, I understand I've spoken a lot today...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u222	Absolutely not the reason, I just missed it. I'd be delighted to invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u223	I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the program "For life" from print no. 1638. The proposed changes are, of course, only a hundredth fraction of what is needed for the repair of the family support system with a disabled child, but are a step forward. And certainly the Kukiz15 will support these changes. First of all, good changes in the education system deserve attention - coordination-rehabilitation and care centres are being established, with particular emphasis on early development support. Of course, I agree with Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz that it is also questionable that, indeed, these measures, which are intended to create these centres, are not granted to local governments in a compulsory way, but are actually optional. And here will probably be the question of the regulation, under which rules and in what manner. The amendments to the Social Assistance Act concern the availability and ordering of sheltered housing standards, which will not only be a place of residence but also a form of support, which is very important. The introduction of types of shelters, the division into training and supported will allow very individual adaptation to the needs of the adult and the disabled. However, the reservation raises in my opinion a logical error from the Social Assistance Act, a logical error, which is also in the present law. The operation of sheltered housing in the Act is reserved for no apparent reason for social assistance units and public benefit organisations. Not to know why, they were not allowed to run sheltered apartments, e.g. social cooperatives, which are also included in this law, only in the next point, in the public benefit law, or in organisations dealing with, for example, actions for persons with disabilities but not having public benefit status. In the same act, which is interesting, and speaking of this logical error, the government promotes social cooperatives, indicating that county labour offices can grant subsidies and that these cooperatives can become a place of work, e.g. for moms or others or fathers who care about children with disabilities. PUPs can give them grants e.g. for the creation of crèches, integration kindergartens, where e.g. Moms like that can take care of their own kids because they know best about it. The Minister considered that such daycare facilities for disabled children could be run by such social cooperatives, while sheltered and trained housing cannot be conducted. And here in the committee, when I tabled this amendment on behalf of the club, I did not get a reasonable explanation for why this is the approach. In my opinion, it was a mere oversight and oversight, while an approach such that, so to speak, the regime simply does not allow itself to be admitted to error. And that's sad because, as a substantive opposition, we're trying to show a solution and we want to discuss it, but you're proving that it's better to bang blindly, just to bang. That's the way it works. So here we feel a little bad that, despite rational arguments on our part, you do not want to take such an amendment into account. But we still hope that, at the meeting, this will take place in the vote and the amendment will be taken into account. I would like to say that this amendment concerns the prospect of financing sheltered housing. There's always gonna be no one standing around, and there's always gonna be problems, e.g. with the possibility of additional funding for equipment, activities, forms of support. On the other hand, social cooperatives, e.g. especially those which are set up by carers of persons with disabilities, have the opportunity to develop measures which can then be allocated directly, e.g. It's for this kind of adjustment. So this is a certain provision of a forward-looking source of funding in companies that have the possibility to function as social enterprises. That's why we don't understand why it's narrowed down. Of course, it is pleased that the Act notes the specificity and difficulty of institutional care for people with coupled disability and autism, giving a greater grant, up to 30%, for environmental self-help homes, but again here it is a bit of a wonder why, for example. Mental impairment is not treated in the same way either. We know that very often people with this mental disability have exactly the same problem. Indeed, this depends on the degree, but we are talking about a significant degree, particularly moderate. Support for local governments in the employment of family assistants is only a partial solution. A major reform is needed in the social assistance system, which will first of all free up support jobs, i.e. workers will not make financial administrators, social workers, but will indeed allow for real social work, through which support can be provided. It is stated in the explanatory memorandum that the project was subject to extensive consultation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then I don't know why 2800 grand. It was intended for Caritas that it was only a partial consultation phase, because, as we can see, it is only a partial act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u224	Thank you very much. And now Mrs Monica Rosa from the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u225	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the environments of people with disabilities and their families indicate, this is a necessary change in the proposed act, but nevertheless a point. And there is still a lack of a comprehensive, full strategy that a modern European country should have. This change focuses on family support in the form of access to various services, including: ensure that pupils continue to study outside their place of residence, support their parents in their return to work, financed by the Labour Fund, which means that the upbringing of a disabled child, including an adult disabled person, entitles them to the status of an unemployed person, as well as support for persons with disabilities through additional financing of sheltered housing. On the other hand, one of the requests, which is certainly not implemented and for which the government has so far been silent, is the implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment. This judgment recognises that the difference in the level of care provision due to the moment of disability is incompatible with the Constitution. Hence the question to the government: When will this witness be evened out? Concerning the law itself: the law imposes new obligations on local governments, without guaranteeing funding. When setting up coordination and rehabilitation and care centers, it will cooperate with local self-government units. The Minister may, but he does not have to, provide them with financial support in the form of a targeted grant, while the governor must indicate the centre - one per county - which will act as the leading KRO centre. A very important issue is the issue of family assistants who, as the state itself points out, have been given additional responsibilities, but when there are additional responsibilities, new positions, new powers, new funding are also needed. Hence the question also about financing not only this element, but also the entire draft law. Do you have the calculated and verified financial requirements, as in the case of sheltered housing? How many such shelters should be built? Will it be housing financed from the budget of local government units, from the state budget, or will there be appropriate subsidies? What will be the cost of introducing such a form of aid? A very important element in the implementation of such a law is the implementation report and how it works in life. Of course, records are very important, but even more important is their implementation, their translation into everyday life. Therefore, the suggestion that it may be worth adding a reporting obligation every year in the context of a report on the implementation of the state budget, how much money has been spent, how many people have been helped and how many have been included in this additional form of support resulting from the proposed law. I would also like to ask you about the issue that parents also raised at the committee meeting, which is the question of when the benefits that are described in the disability ruling will be fully guaranteed. Access to specialists is often very expensive, queues are long, hence families receive this assistance too late, and when a disabled child appears in the family, immediate help can often save health and even life. Hence the question of whether the queues will decrease, how it will be with access to rehabilitation, to therapy. It is that it is financed e.g. Only one hour of therapy. or rehabilitation, and the cost of the remaining hours must be borne by parents, which often makes them have to borrow or even pawn their property. This cost is simply borne by them. Of course, we will support this bill, but I allow myself to make an amendment to the title, to change the title of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u226	Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party. I don't see a Member. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a written statement. Four people entered on the list of people who wanted to ask questions. Would any of you like to sign up? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. In fact, you would have started Mr Sitarski, Kukiz,15, but he is not and he has submitted a question in writing which will be forwarded. The next question will be asked by Lidia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have such a short question. Of course, as was already presented here in the clubs' positions, most clubs will support the bill, because we are all in favour of improving the situation especially of people with disabilities, but in general the demographic situation in Poland. My question is very specific. It's already sounded here with the amendments, and when we're discussing the bill. Will the Ministry and club of Law and Justice support the obligation rather than the optional funding of the projects resulting from this law for local governments? Alternatively, will regulations or the direction of regulations be drawn up at this point in time? We're afraid of the situation that's going on, unfortunately. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in many areas of life, that optionally means discretionaryly, and that we cannot allow it, because all those in need should be treated exactly the same way and local governments should also be treated exactly the same way, according to the same categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask you about apartments protected by training in terms of securing such apartments for young people from school and education centres. After the age of 25, young people must leave these centres and there is often no further chance of social and professional activation. They lock themselves in their homes or have nowhere to go after leaving these centers. Will they be protected as soon as they leave the centers, who will secure them, and when will that be possible? I have been to such a centre and young people lately, and in fact children expect such concrete solutions very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u230	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u231	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I know many families, including single parents raising children with disabilities, very serious, and the biggest problem of these parents is access to specialists, especially to rehabilitation. As already mentioned here by a colleague from Modern, at the moment there is only one hour of rehabilitation for children, and the needs are really many times greater. Such rehabilitation is needed daily for many children with serious disabilities. What about this funding and access to specialists, psychologists and the latest medical solutions? Medicine goes forward and sometimes there are great chances of a quick reaction and a quick prevention of problems. The sooner she reacts, the greater the chance that the baby will be operational, that she will be able to go later to [[♪ The bell ♪]] school, kindergarten for children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u232	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the discussion, for the fact that so many Members are very substantive about this project. I'm going to try to address these questions a little bit, because of course, the Lifetime Programme starts, takes off, and we're going to have plenty of opportunities to discuss and propose concrete solutions. As regards Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz, she spoke a lot about setting up coordination and rehabilitation centres. I will remind you that in this law, which we are investigating, in the article. 90 in the paragraph. 3 is written straight: Starosta indicates a public kindergarten, another form of preschool education, a primary school, including a special school-education centre, a special educational centre for children and young people requiring an appropriate special organisation of education, working methods and education, a rehabilitation and education centre, a psychology-pedagogical clinic, which meets the conditions laid down in the provisions of the Education Law, which in a given district serve as a leading coordination and rehabilitation and care centre. You know very well that these centres exist, are financed either in the form of educational grants or in any other way. We want to further support them so that they can provide rehabilitation and support for children with disabilities during this earliest period of development. On the other hand, what the ladies were talking about, of course, we discussed. Why can he do that? Because if this is to be in the form of a targeted grant, it will be done by means of a contract between the minister and the governor. The Starosta must ask that he wants to make a deal plus he wants to, he must agree to the form of the agreement that will be negotiated. So when we write maybe, we're not saying that we don't want to give money, we're just saying that it's going to be in the form of grants, as additional resources, because these centres are already being financed. It's not like we're putting a new task on local governments. This task is carried out and financed by an educational grant. The additional funds are only to equip, involve additional specialists, improve the quality of the services provided, one of the ones that will act as the leader in the county of all those that exist in the county. I think that's a good solution. On the other hand, I was very pleased with what Mrs Rosa said, that also in the resolution which adopted the programme "For Life', the minister who coordinates the programme "For Life', i.e. the Minister for Social Security, the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, will present a report on the implementation of this law to the government, will propose an amendment or updating or supplementing the programme for additional action. The same is true of Mrs Chasing. Of course it's a subject we're also discussing, and we're worried about that. Mrs Chacja said that there are a lot of NGOs, many of them do a great job in supporting children and people with disabilities, and many of them carry out different forms of housing for this type of person. But there are non-governmental organisations that do not fit the subject at all. The Member also knows that sports clubs are probably the largest group of NGOs. On the other hand, as far as what you're proposing is concerned, I think it's important to go back to that, but we need to go back completely, because it's not that it's only in the Social Welfare Act that it's written that protected housing is run by a public benefit organisation. I will remind you, because I am sure you know this, but maybe you have forgotten that there is also a law on financial support for the creation of social housing, shelters, homeless homes, where there is also a record of public benefit organisations. BGK also has public benefit organisations in its rules of procedure as regards the granting of loans for the creation of such housing. So it is often easy to make an amendment during the process of the bill, but you have to think and remember the consequences in other laws. Do we need to get back to this subject and deal with it comprehensively? I believe so, but not in such a way that we change it in a single law, and in others we will leave records which are so far that the financing of shelters can be protected if they run public benefit organisations. I would therefore like to see such a project being carried out at the right time and taking into account the overall or complex problem, because it is a little more complicated, not just the Social Aid Act. As far as Mrs Rosa is concerned, we were talking about a strategy. We're working on a strategy. The strategy for responsible development is also a strategy for people with disabilities, which is due to be up to 2030. At the moment, there is actually a team at the Ministry of Development that coordinates the work on these strategies. They're moving forward. Also in our ministry we are working on several strategies, among others. above the Strategy for the benefit of people with disabilities. She, exactly as she said, should be comprehensive, should be long-term and should give a vision of the government's responsibilities in solving the problems of people with disabilities. With regard to benefits for carers of adults with disabilities, unfortunately not this law. From what I can remember, I think it's a family support bill that's being processed right now. I don't know if there's a family benefit law in this bill. In any case, this is what the Family Benefits Act does. Among the various benefits that families receive, there is also a care provision for those who have resigned to take care of their disabled child. There are also benefits and benefits for carers with disabilities. But it's not about this bill, not now. I'm sure it's a different bill. In this part of the program, we did not do this with our lives. As far as family assistants are concerned, this is the task of self-government. Of course, the government has been subsidising the employment of family assistants for years and that in the bill we have here, we extend the period during which we will be able to finance family assistants as well as employ new... This is the new one that is in the bill, gives opportunities, supports local governments so that the support system through family assistants is further developed and continued. As far as Mrs Gądek is concerned, this obligation to finance the tasks of the law, as I said, when you read this law calmly, they will see that most of the things we are talking about here are the tasks of local governments. Let me remind you that in 1998 we passed a law on district or voivodeship government, for this reason in the law on local government we stated that the task of local government is to meet the needs of local government, that at the moment it is not the government, only local governments carry out most of the tasks related to specific benefits and concrete actions for the residents of their municipality. However, what is in this law and what is worth appreciating is that the government has found additional money to finance these tasks, so that through a grant to support local governments in launching these tasks, because we know that the greatest needs are where local governments are the poorest, so this support of local governments is definitely important. However, let us also not take responsibility from local governments for carrying out tasks towards their residents. I stress this every step of the way and I will say it again: locals have the right to expect support from local governments, and there are also people with disabilities among these residents. They are the same inhabitants of local communities as others, and the local government is to keep in mind their needs and organise services within the services for which the local government is responsible to also take into account the special needs of people and families with disabilities. When it comes to financing these coordination and rehabilitation and care centers, of course, there is still a whole complex of medical care-related issues, also in this law, there is also the issue of medical care, there is also that we want every county to have a rehabilitation centre that specialises in rehabilitation of children, and when it comes to what I have said about coordination-rehabilitation-care centers, we are talking about supporting early development of the child, and if the governor points out one of the centres that exist and which are funded by educational subsidies, and this centre will put particular emphasis on supporting children with disabilities, I think that this will make it easier for the authorities to fulfil their tasks and not make it more difficult. As far as what Mrs Lieder said is concerned, I simply agree with the majority, and I can only thank you for thinking that there is such a thing when it comes to supporting people with disabilities, among Members, because it is a good thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide the fact that you must remember one thing: for years with the environment of people with disabilities there have been discussions about various activities, there have been different kinds of bands, tables, sub-tables where they have been discussed. On the other hand, I believe that when it comes to the environment of people with disabilities, these people do not have time to wait. So I think that if we can do something now, let's do it, and when it comes to comprehensive solutions, ambitious ones that meet all needs, then let's discuss it and try to introduce it. Today, at this point, we can introduce what is, and I think it will help or make life easier for many people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u234	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u235	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! What are some of the principles and principles set out in the county as the leading coordination and rehabilitation centre? The Act refers to socially useful work. This means the work carried out by the unemployed without the right to the benefit as a result of an old woman's referral. I have a question about the popularity of this solution and the professionalism of the services provided. Here's another thing. For years, we've trained and trained educators. In such a system, in Poland independent for work they travel abroad and pay taxes and contributions in foreign countries. The project also contains a record of taking care of disabled children or conducting activities for them by an unemployed person from the employment office. The professionalisation of services needs to be addressed again. In order to be able to take care of children under the age of 3, you have to have the right education and for example. completed pre-med course. Why is support not aimed at hiring high school graduates prepared in the field of pedagogy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of this year, the government's Lifetime Programme is now supporting complicated pregnant women and their families and families who raise disabled children. No one in my opinion needs to be convinced that this support is needed, and although today's tools do not fully meet our expectations, I take for a good coin the actions initiated by the government to improve this system. The Act under review today introduces further solutions as provided for in the comprehensive family support programme "For Life" established in December 2017. These include changes to the Education Act, the Social Assistance Act and the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions Act. The project envisages, among others, Regulation that the Ministry of National Education is competent to carry out the tasks of assisting pregnant schoolchildren and is responsible for setting up in each district and determining the tasks of coordination and rehabilitation centres with particular emphasis on early support for the development of children. In addition, which is extremely important, 30% increase in grants for autistic children's places in environmental nursing homes. Projectors point out that, due to the need for increased care and better equipment for children with autism spectrum diseases, these facilities are difficult to access. I agree with the assumption that increased funding will increase the availability of SDSs for these children, which will respond to needs and increase the effectiveness of therapy. In line with the expectations of families with disabled people, there are also other changes to the solution. These are among others. sheltered housing and assisted housing, clarification of the role and functioning of family assistants and extension of their funding period, as well as a number of regulations facilitating the professional activation of carers and their families. It is worth pointing out that the Life Programme is innovative, not undertaken by the previous authorities. The opposition may and of course must point out all shortcomings and shortcomings, but this does not change the fact that it is a programme expected by the environment of people with disabilities. And while it must be admitted that the pace of change is high, it must also be said that this is required by the earlier lack of such policies. However, I know that through the thorough work of all stakeholders, the results will certainly be positive. About Free and Solidarni will support further legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u237	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Unfortunately, there's no government representative for the next project, so I'm announcing a ten-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 27 hours 14 min 45]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session after the recess. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 and 2020 and some other laws (print No 1636). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Jerzy Kwieciński to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u238	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the draft law submitted by the Polish Sejm on the amendment of the law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 and some other laws is a very important regulation for the efficient and efficient use of EU funds. This document was drawn up on the basis of a previous audit on the effectiveness of the implementation of the operational programmes of the financial perspective 2014-2020, which resulted in the identification of barriers and restrictions to the use of Union funds. I will remind you that when this audit was carried out at the end of 2015, our country, Poland, in terms of the use of European funds from this financial perspective 2014 In order to implement corrective actions, the Minister for Development and Finance has developed a special action plan to increase efficiency and speed up the implementation of the Partnership Agreement 2014-2020 programmes, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers in February 2016. The bill that was prepared was the result of these actions. The solutions contained in the bill submitted to the High House are the result of a broad discussion with the social partners, local authorities, institutions for the implementation of EU funds, as well as beneficiaries of funds from the European Union over several months. The proposed amendment is therefore the result of almost 2 years of experience in implementing the operational programmes of cohesion policy in this financial perspective. The essence of the solutions contained in the draft law is the introduction of improvements and simplifications in the system of implementation of EU funds, which is so important that the proposed law has been incorporated into the package so-called. the business constitution, i.e. proposals for legal solutions that involve the reconstruction of economic law and the introduction of facilitations primarily for entrepreneurs. The aim of the proposed amendments is both to simplify the implementation of projects funded by beneficiaries and to improve the implementation of operational programmes by the various institutions. The bill contains a number of simplifications, facilitations, and maybe I will mention only some of them. It will therefore be easier for those applying for Union funds to prohibit the competent institutions from requiring certificates and documents from those bodies to which the institution will have access. This applies e.g. data from KRS, ZUS, tax offices. In order to speed up the evaluation of projects in the appeal procedure, the deadlines for examining the protests were significantly shortened and the possibility for the applicant to withdraw the protest was introduced. In the amendment we introduce a new function: the ombudsman of European funds, who will act in favour of beneficiaries, takes care of the issues of all those interested in using the funds. It will also be responsible for the collection of proposals and requests for operational programmes to improve the system. As part of the implementation of the projects, beneficiaries will no longer be subject to penalties for payment of interest if they are late in submitting a payment application by 14 days. Notwithstanding these changes, the draft law will limit the number of documents - programming guidelines, which beneficiaries will apply under the signed grant agreement. Right now we have the so-called. horizontal guidelines and programme-specific guidelines. We will no longer use these guidelines for each operational programme. These are changes to the beneficiaries. We also introduce other facilitations, e.g. the possibility of changing partners in the partner project with the agreement of the competent institution. It's been virtually impossible so far. In addition, in order to better implement operational programmes, voivodships will be involved in the implementation of operational programmes as representatives of the Minister responsible for regional development carrying out the tasks of the Member State. They will participate in the designation process and participate as observers in the work of the monitoring committees and the evaluation committees of projects under the regional operational programmes. High Seym! I would like to assure you that the proposed amendment to the Act on the principles for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 and 2020 will improve and make use of EU funds more efficient and thus contribute to the faster economic and social development of our country. In view of the above, I would ask you to continue to proceed with the bill by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u239	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Lech Kołakowski will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The aim of the draft law amending the Law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 and 2020 and some other laws is to introduce improvements and simplifications and to ensure the efficient use of the funds of the European Union. The proposed provisions are a consequence of the proposals and requests made by the institutions and bodies involved in the implementation and spending of funds in the 2014-2020 financial perspective, and meet them. The most important regulations simplifying the application for measures and facilitating the implementation of projects include, in particular: limiting the number of documents necessary for the effective submission of the application for funding and the conclusion of the grant agreement; separating the criteria for selecting projects from the formal conditions which may be supplemented by the applicant at the request of the competent institution; setting up an institution for the Ombudsman of the European Funds; the possibility of requesting the applicant to correct the proposal's application for funding under the selection criteria laid down in the rules of the competition; dividing the competition into rounds; changes in the rules for implementing the partnership projects; the possibility of withdrawing the protest; shortening the time limits for processing the remedies; making changes in the functioning of the registers available, i.e. a register of entities excluded by the possibility of electronic communication within the existing registers and a register of entities that ensure the proper provision of development services; introducing a 14-day transfer of interest period in case the beneficiary fails to submit an application for payment within a time limit or for an appropriate amount; enabling the payment of special subsidies granted to beneficiaries from the State budget and the budgets of local government units to co-finance projects on an equivalent basis as for payments from the European budget, i.e. within the deadlines resulting from the co-financing agreement, without the need to reimburse unused funds at the end of the budget period; introducing the possibility of creating regional development funds; introducing regulations enabling greater cooperation between entrepreneurs, universities and educational entities through the creation and functioning of competence councils - this will enable the economic staff to adapt to the current needs of entrepreneurs operating on the labour market; taking into account the participation of voivodships in the implementation of European Union funds in the financial perspective of 2014.2020. High Izbo! According to the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice Act will be a good solution for a better, efficient, flexible and efficient use of European funds. The project offers the opportunity for many actors, entrepreneurs, universities, local governments to focus primarily on development and not on the implementation of cumbersome procedures. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed government project expected by the beneficiaries and is in favour of directing it to further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u241	Thank you. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u242	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the Law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 I would like to say first of all that some of the solutions put in place really fit well in the objectives of the amendment and meet the needs of potential applicants and beneficiaries of European Union funds, but unfortunately not all. I will focus on those who raise our serious doubts. Firstly, such doubts are raised by provisions which go beyond the objective of the amendment, as well as those which entail only apparent simplifications. The inclusion of the voivodeship in the system of implementation of regional operational programmes deserves particular attention here, which, incidentally, took place at the last stage of the work on the amendment. This raises resistance in the light of the fact that it is the voivodship boards that act as the managing authorities of regional operational programmes, and thus bear full responsibility for the lawful and effective implementation of this task. We do not see the point of including an additional representative of the government in this system, nor do we see any benefits that would result from this, especially since, at the same time, a large representation of the government party will take part in the work of the Committees on the basis of this law and the guidelines of the Minister responsible for Development. It is also worth remembering that the voivodship in the framework of supervision examines compliance with the law of resolutions of the management board of the voivodship. Among these resolutions are also resolutions determining recruitments. In this respect, we believe that these proposed rules do not add any added value to the project selection process, that they actually duplicate the mechanisms already in place in the system to ensure the proper representation of the parties, and that they artificially extend the voivodeship tasks and, most importantly, undermine the independence of local authorities in the management of regional operational programmes. The draft also includes regulations on the use of funds for the implementation of financial instruments. And here is another issue that raises our serious doubts, because it has been decided that the funds earmarked for the implementation of these financial instruments, returned by final recipients, are not the income of the authorising officer or any other entity to whom the authorising officer could entrust the implementation of financial instruments or feedback, because that is also the case. On the one hand, we are not really dealing with the problem of determining who owns these measures, and on the other, we are going beyond the objective, because the means returning from these instruments no longer constitute the resources of the operational programmes, so they are in fact not EU funds and the way in which they are implemented should not be regulated by this law. In our view, the rules unduly limit the use of funds by the competent institutions, i.e. the voivodship boards, for this purpose. This is clearly a reduction in the independence of local governments in the conduct of development policy. Another issue that we are resisting is the establishment of a new institution for the Ombudsman of European funds. This is replicating to a large extent the tasks that are being carried out today, and this will lead to the extension of existing structures, and we do not see any qualitative benefits resulting from this fact. We are very concerned about what you are doing when it comes to territorial contracts, because in fact what you are proposing is giving up this tool. As a matter of fact, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are losing the concept of a territorial contract as such, as a mechanism for coordinating development policy in voivodships. We have a number of other comments. However, we believe that this project needs to be dealt with and that these shortcomings will be removed. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u243	Okay, thank you, sir. Slowly...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u244	We propose that the project be directed to the committees - the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u245	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law amending the Law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 and 2020 and certain other laws. The wisdom is to draw conclusions and it is very good that we draw conclusions because we still have a perspective and we have time, and I think we all agree on one thing: Poland cannot afford to return up to 1 million, more, even gold to the budget of the European Union. It's perfect. It's perfect, but I'd rather have ideals than pay back millions. I believe that this is our main objective in this law, a very important law, to implement it, to ensure it. This is something that will be the business not of the party, not of the government ruling today, but of all Poles, because the funds are for Poles, for Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, before today's performance, I spoke to the practice because I had a lot of objections, and I had a lot of doubts. Practitioners who have been actively involved in the use of EU funds since the very beginning have made my view straight and suggested and showed that it is all for a purpose. First of all, it's not my words, it's a quote, when I showed it to the practitioners, they said, "Why is it so late?" This is the first phrase I've heard from practitioners who really do this: Why is it so late? I had a lot of doubts about the Ombudsman of European funds, but I was answered: Well, listen, if it were normal and good, he would be unnecessary at all, he would really be unnecessary if it worked normally, properly, as God commanded. But it doesn't work. At the Kukiz Club15 we are against excessive bureaucracy... Only here is the attention, Minister, the spokesman for European funds on the management board of the voivodship or the Marshal of the voivodship - it's a little bit wrong, because at the moment I'd... It is a suggestion of practitioners that it be outside the structure of the voivodship, or perhaps closer to the voivodship, so that it is this part of reconciliation, neutral, so that it is honest and substantively assessed. That's the first suggestion. Voivodeship. I also had comments, ladies and gentlemen, and I wasn't thrilled at all when I saw that the voivode appeared, and finally we all wanted the voivodships to be leading here, but after reading the details... We're talking about his presence as an observer. Here again there are practitioners who say: Yes, there must be an observer, because we are talking about big money that needs observation, support, because often beneficiaries are lonely. Cross control? That's a very good idea. This is also the opinion of practitioners who do this and ask. Ladies and gentlemen, the project evaluation committee. I've heard the most about it here. I could actually talk about it for half a day. The beneficiaries are clear: the Commission's evaluation of projects is today a cloud of problem, that so much has been wrong with EU funds. This requires a really good change, such a fair change, a substantive change, not a political one, but a substantive one, in order to make it easier for beneficiaries, entrepreneurs to carry out projects, allow them to operate and develop. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we're discussing today is linked to 15 laws. It is very good that we have four draft regulations attached here immediately. This is rarely the case in this term of office so that we have the regulations attached. We also have metrics with the full formula of justification and analysis. Here in this respect, Minister, thank you for your good, solid work. We're at Kukiz15 for further debate, because we see the need. We believe that the government side will be open to some changes and possible comments. And I think it's worth listening at the committee stage to practitioners, not politicians, practitioners, those who have the most to say and that wisdom they can put on a tray. Members, let us not break down the open door. Really, there are people who can say a lot of good and a lot of bad about this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sowa will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective of 2014. In the opinion of the initiator, i.e. The Ministry of Development, the changes are the result of 2 years of experience in the implementation of operational programmes. The aim of the amendment is to make improvements, simplifications and ensure the efficient use of European funds. The draft law is even a response to requests and requests made by institutions and entities involved in the implementation and spending of funds of the financial perspective 2014. I would like to believe, Minister, that it is, but a few records clearly contradict it. In view of the urgency of the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm's deliberations, as well as the short time allocated to the parliamentary clubs to present the position, I will limit myself mainly to discussing those elements which, in my opinion, contradict these assumptions. I also want to say, because my previous speaker referred to a conversation with people who have a lot of experience, that I also have a dozen years of experience. I think the Minister I've worked with for a few years may say something about that. Undoubtedly, I am very positive about the change in the implementation of partner projects. That's what I asked for in my interrogation. Indeed, the records so far, it must be said, have prevented such projects from being implemented effectively. And that's a change of heart. Unfortunately, further comments will be more critical. The first point concerns the role and position of the voivode in the implementation of European funds in the current financial perspective. It's a bad and incomprehensible decision. Minister, the voivodeship office does not have the capacity to carry out these tasks and it is difficult to find any possible benefits in this change. According to the proposed provisions, the voivode will participate in the designation process - he will be able to carry out systemic checks on the functioning of the system and procedures - he will be an observer at the work of the Commission for the Evaluation of Projects. How do you want to do this? Inserting into the solution is easy, but it is much harder to realize. KOP meetings are held electronically today, experts work outside the office. It is therefore only necessary to check project evaluation cards and possibly to undermine the results of the competition. Perhaps that's what this is all about, to undermine the results of the competitions. I do not wish to refer to the change in the status of the monitoring committee. I would like to say that in many voivodships this will be to the detriment of the voivodships, because most of them are invited as members of the monitoring committee to work, and today they will only have observer status. Another issue - regional contracts. I am concerned about the dismantling of the regional contract. The withdrawal of funding sources from these agreements will make the contract a fake rather than a real tool for implementing regional policy. I must say, unfortunately, Minister Wasiak was the first person to dismantle it. In my opinion, some of the changes are simply dangerous to the beneficiaries. Resignation e.g. Under the guidelines of the managing authority, there will be enormous negative consequences, unlike the Minister here has assured us. Under the pretext of eliminating additional documents, you are confusing the middle of the implementation process. Today, the guidelines of managing authorities at regional level - by the way, are not too many - were among the most important documents. For example, the Guidelines on eligible costs included both horizontal and regional guidelines. Disbursing the possibility of issuing these guidelines will require a number of changes to other documents - details, criteria, competitions, for which many people need time and work. Instead of accelerating we will have delays, instead of reducing the number of documents we will have two types: for competitions already launched - present, and for new ones - new ones. The beneficiaries will have problems implementing these projects in the further phase. They're gonna have to get to know the new papers. The consequence of such solutions will be chaos and more errors. And, in conclusion, and in line with the view set out here on financial instruments, I would like to say that I am concerned about this provision which the Minister of Development puts in such a situation that it gives him the opportunity to coordinate and draw up these policies. The only authorising officer is here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is very clear that these measures may be the management of voivodships. It can't be any different. I would agree to have previously selected areas for which these funds can be allocated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u249	Thank you, sir, you have run out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u250	It can't be decided later. The Modern Posel Club will, of course, be involved in further work on this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u251	We have five Members who are written down for questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first question... [[Not much. Maybe one and a half minutes, Marshal.]] ...you ask Mr Richard Galla, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u252	A minute's a little short. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to stress here as practices that indeed the amendment of the law is very valuable, because it takes into account certain practices that have emerged from the experience of local governments. On the other hand, I do not hide the fact that I would also like to ask a few questions. Minister, first of all, has the draft amendment of the law been consulted with representatives of local governments, especially local governments? You are introducing the institution of the Ombudsman of European funds, and I would like to ask you here to clarify the role of the Ombudsman of European funds. You say that this is mandatory at the level of the managing authority and can also be created at the level of the implementing and intermediate institution. Is this really a need when we have a monitoring committee that should act as a spokesman who responds to certain issues? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much will the Ombudsman also be able to react when it comes to the substantive assessment of the projects? And, finally, I would like to ask you about the role of the voivodship, especially in the evaluation committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u253	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The most important changes to the law called implementation include in addition to a number of system simplifications. appoint an ombudsman of European funds at the level of managing authorities. Quite simply, this is described both in the Act and in its justification. Therefore, I am asking questions about this new entity, the manner and principles of its appointment, the form of employment and remuneration, competences and subordinates and the costs associated with the operation of that entity. I will ask the Minister for more details regarding this new function and responsibilities and powers. It is good that this law introduces facilitations for beneficiaries, but in my opinion there is no point in including voivodships, which undermines the independence of the voivodship boards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u255	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The introduction of improvements and simplifications for effective funding under cohesion policy, despite many reservations, is highly expected as the implementation of the programmes faces considerable difficulties, for example. extending the time limits of the decision, and time runs inexorably. Listening to today's discussion, I doubt that this project really simplifies all these procedures. However, I have a specific question: how does the government today assess the delays in spending money from the Cohesion Fund? In what areas is the lowest level of performance? I am asking this because we are hearing more and more about a possible reduction in the resources of the European Union's Cohesion Fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u257	Thank you. Now you are asking Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The so-called amendment. The implementation law, of course, brings with it a number of expected solutions, which will certainly improve the system of implementation of European measures, but unfortunately you want to smuggle in this project a lot of solutions that are part of your policy to reduce the independence and independence of local governments, especially the local government, because the local government is the managing authority of operational programmes and is responsible for their implementation, while introducing a number of provisions concerning the voivodeship, as well as the minister of regional development, you limit this autonomy. My question is: Why do you ignore the opinion of the local government? Why didn't you want to continue the discussion in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, and the Deputy Minister, your deputy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He asked for a negative opinion just to get rid of the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government and be able to direct the draft to the Sejm?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u259	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u260	The government wanted to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u261	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u262	...to discuss...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u263	Now the question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u264	...these changes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u265	...Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a short question, but it's very important. How many resources did the local authorities have to return to the European Union, for what reasons and reasons? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u267	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to strengthen the argument on the role of the voivod. We have here a situation where the minister responsible for regional development can entrust the task of designation. This designation is a confirmation that the marshal is capable of implementing the operational program. This automatically creates a powerful tension between the marshal as the host of the region and the voivode as a representative of the government, completely unnecessary. Your changes basically keep building this tension and believing that the voivode is more important than the marshal. That's not true. As long as the Constitution is in force in Poland, the Marshal is the host of the voivodship, and why? Why? At the same time, I would like to ask what real importance you attach to voivodship contracts, because here we have been told a little bit. We would like to be clear, all the more so as the issue of the renegotiation of contracts has hesitated for a long time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I think it's still unfinished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u269	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I wanted to ask a slightly broader question about a certain philosophy, because everything that the Law and Justice Government is doing in every area, so that it is clear, is going to introduce democratic centralism known to us from the previous era. [[What are you impputing us with, sir?]] Of course, I would like to ask the Minister, because I am surprised that the Minister is involved in this and is firming it and giving it his face, but perhaps you know some secrets here. What are the reasons for those who decide, including you, that this return to the previous period is really so strongly implemented to this centralism? Restricting local governments, or actually moving towards liquidation of local governments, everything under voivodeship, under minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] - and there will be one chief, one president will rule. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[There's no reality.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u271	That was the last question. Not a question, actually. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. And now the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mr Jerzy Kwieciński, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u272	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for your interest and for all those words. I would also like to complete my earlier statement and answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to say once again that the issue of this law was the introduction of the greatest possible facilitations, simplifications and, above all, for the beneficiaries of these funds, i.e. even less for the institutions and much more for the beneficiaries. I am referring here to both entrepreneurs and local governments and NGOs. I'll remind you again what was driving us. In November 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) Poland had certified, i.e. sent and confirmed, funds to the European Commission of exactly zero euros or zero zlotys. We have not provided any funds, we have been in the last place in the European Union. Of course, we had an earlier perspective, but this condition was unacceptable to us. Secondly, it was important to launch this perspective as soon as possible, hence the audit I mentioned, hence the special plan that we have prepared. On the basis of this, too, we have already introduced a lot of solutions that were procedural or organisational solutions that did not require legislative changes. What we decided to do... We have also decided to introduce the legislative changes that we are presenting here, solutions that needed to be amended, especially in the framework of the implementation law. I can already say to you that many of these organisational arrangements have had such a positive effect that today we are clearly a leader in the use of European funds. We never had such a good use of funds - relatively, in relation to other countries - we had. At the moment, the funds paid by the European Commission to Poland 34% All the resources. Let me remind you that Poland has a stake of 22.6. On average, in previous years it was at 15%, that's half of it. So it can be said that cohesion policy is very strongly based on Poland. European Commission every time it repeats, just like yesterday, when we had the so-called. a high-level meeting on railway projects. The Commission strongly confirms this. So this condition has definitely changed. The additional changes we are making, once again, are intended to increase the efficiency of the use of funds and, on the other hand, to simplify. I will refer to concrete solutions. I must say, referring to Mr Owl's words, that I too have considerable experience in the implementation of projects. The first project I carried out in 1991, so I have 26 years of experience in implementing projects from EU funds. As far as the solutions we are proposing here are concerned, I should like to start with the Ombudsman of European funds. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very strong democratic solution, which is opened up by the institutions in various areas to the beneficiaries of the solution. We also use them: and in the public sector, like the Ombudsman, and in the private sector, for example. a spokesperson in financial institutions. We don't see any reason why this solution should be introduced here. However, I must say that as far as this solution is concerned, the prototype was the spokesman appointed by the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. At the moment this solution, this new function will be mandatory for all managing authorities, such as regions whether we as a ministry, for individual programmes and will be optional for intermediate institutions. We know a lot of them want to use it. We, as responsible for European funds, simply want to be the front of the beneficiaries and listen to them. We believe that this is a solution that will undoubtedly help us to do so. The second thing I wanted to say was financial instruments, feedback instruments. Because our assumption is this: the feedback instruments are to work for the development of our country, our regions over the years, and not just in a given financial perspective. Here I may refer to the attempt by the Minister of Finance in the previous government, who tried this money, as it is said, to absorb into the budget, which would mean that it might reduce the budget deficit, but unfortunately would not work for the development of our country. This solution will allow for the multiple use of these feedback funds for the development of our regions. The next issue is territorial contracts. Here one of your fellow Members referred to what we propose as a dummy. The problem is, these contracts are a fake right now. Why? Because many projects have been included in them, for which there is absolutely no funding. Therefore, they have unfortunately become a somewhat theoretical tool. We want to reinstate this instrument and set an example. At the moment, we are conducting an annexation of these contracts so that they can finance cultural and national heritage projects in all regions that want them to do so. Besides, the answer is very positive. All regions have responded to this, so it is clear that the practical approach is certainly well assessed here. The role of the voivodship. Well, please note that in the previous financial perspective for the period 2007-2013, the role of the voivode was much stronger. It was the voivode who was responsible for certifying all expenses, which means he confirmed all expenses, so it is not true that there is no potential in voivodship offices to carry out tasks... [[Not anymore.]] ...related to European funds. What we care about right now is the quality of the projects and we want the voivodships to help us not as active participants in this process, just to help us with surveillance. At the moment, in 13 regions, i.e. 13 regional committees, the voivodships have their representatives who have the right to speak. In fact, we're changing their role. We want them to be in all regions, but as observers, not as active as they are now in 13 regions, but as observers. The second change that we really care about is the participation of the voivodships, but once again as observers in the project evaluation committees. Why? Please read the local newspapers, how many complaints there are about the selection of projects. This is - I'm telling you right now - our biggest flaw, i.e. the choice of good projects, and the role of the voivode is to be limited to an observer. He won't participate in the election process, he's only here as an observer. We hope that this will improve the use of resources. Ladies and gentlemen, have we used other votes in preparation? Absolutely. I set up a simplification team, which works very regularly, meets, is designed just so that the practitioners can tell us what we need to change. The bill was widely discussed, including with local governments. I would like to remind you that it has been the subject of the joint government and local government committee's opinion twice, so that it cannot be said that we have not discussed this project. There was also a question of delays in the use of EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say in general: we are standing very well, the committee praises us every time, but the use of money by local governments is relatively four times slower at the moment than it was in the previous perspective, at the right time, because then local governments used their resources twice as quickly as national programmes, and now it is exactly the opposite. I can say that the biggest problems we have with such voivodships as Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Warmia-Mazurskie, Podlaskie, Świętokrzyskie and it is not true that all local governments have problems with this, because on the other hand, the Pomorskie voivodship is implementing a program that is the fastest implemented from all programs. It's hard to understand why. Kujawsko-Pomorskie or Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship has four or five times worse results than Pomorskie voivodship, so among others. These changes are intended to ensure that, as one Member has rightly pointed out here, neither one euro is lost from our money. We must take care of every euro that we receive here absolutely. The question is, why are we turning the voivodships on? Also because we want this system to work more efficiently. This is a decentralised system that we support, which is implemented by local governments, while the government is responsible for the whole implementation of the policy and we want the voivodships to help us do so. Thank you very much, Marshal, High Izbo. I think that this law will really contribute to an even more efficient use of funds, make it easier for our beneficiaries to use them and deliver better results for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u273	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made for additional referral of the draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We don't have... Who haven't we got? Your Undersecretary of State at the Ministry. Okay, so we're gonna have to call a five-minute break. We're waiting for the Minister. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 32 hours 15 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Information presented by the Minister of the Environment on the implementation in 2016 of the tasks set out in the Act of 13 May 2016 on the completion of the construction of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank (print No. 1567) together with the position of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry (print No. 1601) Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Mariusz Gajda, for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I'd like to apologize for being late. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, thanks to the parliamentary initiative, a law was passed on the completion of the Swinna Poręba reservoir on the River Skawa near Wadowice in the district of Wadowice and in the district of Suskie. This construction, the history of this construction goes back years... The first idea was 100 years ago. Gabriel Narutowicz, the later president, pointed out this place, precisely this place as the most appropriate for the construction of a multi-purpose tank for flood and energy purposes. Originally, this tank was also intended to serve as a water supply function, among others. for the Silesian agglomeration, for the Krakow agglomeration. In the 1980s, this project was approved and started to be implemented. This project was implemented in a different way over time - once faster, once slower. A very clear acceleration took place in 2006, 2007 and 2008 because the government of Law and Justice provided funds for this construction. Later, it was different. That's when the special act came into being. This special act expired in 2015. The previous government neither provided funds in the 2016 Budget Act nor extended the previous Act, so it needed a parliamentary initiative to be able to finance, and this is a relatively small scope, because the entire tank is a cost. approx. PLN 2.2 billion, while the special act amounted to PLN 56 million. However, the work that had to be done had to be financed because it was not possible to fill the tank. It was mostly about local roads, access to the village, which the tank had cut through, demolition of bridges, as well as securing landslides. Most of the work was carried out in 2016. One of the local roads was made, the other the local road unfortunately due to difficult geological conditions - landslides, and also for quite a sharp winter it was not made until this year. In the spring it was possible to start filling this tank. At the moment, the tank is partially filled and it is expected, provided that adequate hydrological conditions are in place, that a normal level will be reached in August - the level of flooring. This law will also allow for an extremely important thing, namely the start of the tank. Such a tank is filled slowly, because then it is observed that there is no phenomenon of a landslide type, no filtration by firewall or by water devices. And this has to happen gradually. It made it possible to finish this tank. So that once again I would like to thank Members for this current initiative. And now a few more numbers for the end of my short speech. In 2016, an amount of 31 041 000 was spent. zł. About PLN 15 million was to be spent, but due to lower tender prices this amount has changed. The road of Dąbrowka - Durówka was completed, in November the road of Brankowka - Wodniakówka - Do3ębówka was taken. The other way I was talking about is done, we're just waiting for you to pick up. The deadline for putting the road into service was initially set at the end of June. Two landslips have been stabilized - 11A, 11B, the material advancement is about 80%. The work is going on. In addition, the documentation for stabilization of the landslips Lastowa and No 1/21 shall be carried out. I was going to say that filling the tank is just activating some landslips, so that we can't react right away, because we don't know exactly where we can assume these landslips exist. Especially dangerous is the landslide in Ostatowa, here we must watch very closely, because there are nine houses that could be destroyed if this landslide was not guarded. As I said, the filling has been going on since the beginning of the year. The minimum floor level was 280. The so-called. the minimum level of flooring, which is the lowest level to the flood reserve, and by the end of May there were already 10 m more. If there are any questions, you're welcome. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. And I now ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Commission for Public Finances considered on 7 June 2017 the information of the Minister for the Environment on the implementation in 2016 of the tasks set out in the Act of 13 May 2016 on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank, contained in print No 1567. The construction of the Świnna Poręba tank has lasted for over 30 years, i.e. Since 1986, the Law of 4 March 2005 on the establishment of a multi-annual programme under the name of the "Programme for the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank in the years 2006-2010' was intended to ensure that this construction was completed by 2010. Unfortunately, the provisions of this law concerning the timetable for the execution of works have not been implemented. The Act was extended by one amendment adopted with a delay of more than three months on 1 April 2011 and subsequently by another amending act of 30 December 2013. Date extended by another 2 years It wasn't kept either. Moreover, the continuity of financing of this important investment was lost for Kraków and Małopolska. The Law on the completion of the construction of the Świnna Poręba reservoir, for which I had the honour to represent the applicants, as well as to act as rapporteur, which was adopted on 13 May 2016, and entered into force on 14 July Ub. R., allows for a peaceful completion of this construction on the basis of funding of 53 230 thousand. zł for the necessary work to be carried out. After the Act entered into force on 20 September 2016, a grant agreement was signed between the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the investor, i.e. the Regional Management Board of Water Management in Krakow. The Act divides the necessary tasks for the performance of the task. The first task, the tank, was assigned to 6930 thousand. zł. The second task, i.e. the reconstruction of roads, was dedicated to 20 600 thousand. zł. The third task, i.e. countering landslides and eliminating their environmental impacts, was allocated 19 million in 2016 and 6700 thousand in 2017. In total, it was like I said, 53 230,000. zł. Finally, it was spent on the task of the first 6 829 900 PLN, for the second task - 15 098 200 PLN and for the third task - 9 112 800 PLN. We are talking here about the amounts that result from the tenders decided. In total, it closes in the amount of PLN 31 040 900. High Izbo! The timetable, which shared these tasks as did the Act, i.e. the first, second and third tasks, includes the following tasks. The first task, the tank, are the robots necessary to perform in the tank's skull before starting: wet start, commission work and measurements. I remind you that during the filling of the tank, measurements of possible displacements, deformations are carried out, the stability of all constructed structures is observed. The next task is to start a power plant, which is also related to the work of the start-up committee. During filling, the inspection and injection gallery shall be observed at the floor stage and, if necessary, sealing robots shall be carried out. As part of the first task, fees were also charged for excluding land from forest production. The second task is to rebuild the roads. Its progress at the end of last year, because this period includes a report, although the Minister spoke about this investment in a broader perspective including the spring this year, in the case of road reconstruction it was about 73% The road Dąbrówka - Durówka with a length of 934 m was completed in November last year and is finished, and the road Brankówka - Wodniakówka - Do3ębówka with a length of more than 2.5 km has not yet been fully completed. Third tasks, i.e. countering landslides and eliminating their effects, at the end of last year were advanced in a total of 48%. The works consisting of securing landslides 11A and 11B in Dąbrówka have been partially completed, are to be completed this year, while the documentation for landslides in Ostanowa Zagórska and Dąbrowska and the landslides 1/21 in Świnna Poręba is to be completed by October this year. As I said, the amount is 15,5 million less than the financial annex to the Act of 13 May Ub. In general, these robots in the tank skulls consisted, among others. on the fact that the property in Skawce was finally abandoned, the building was demolished, the bridge was demolished. The problems were that local authorities did not want to consent to the demolition of the bridge in the skull until one of the roads was completed. As regards the issue of the wet start and the upstairs, which the Minister also pointed out in his speech, it should be recalled that these floors should take place gradually. It is the periods of lifting the floor, or filling the tank, and the periods of keeping the floor in a certain row, to observe the stability of all these constructed structures. The floor was completed at 286 m above sea level, so that it was not yet possible to start the power plant, because only at a level higher by a few meters will this work be possible. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Commissions: Commission for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and Commission for Public Finance request the adoption of information from the Minister of the Environment on the implementation in 2016 of the tasks set out in the Act of 13 May 2016 on the completion of the construction of the Swine Porba Water Tank, print No 1567. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u277	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. She will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 7 2 of the Act of 13 May 2016 on the completion of the construction of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank, the Minister responsible for Water Management, provided the Council of Ministers and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland with annual information on the implementation of the tasks set out in the Act for the previous year. The construction of the Swine Poręba reservoir began in 1986. It included the construction of the tank, the reconstruction of roads, the reconstruction of the railway and the protection of the water catchment area. Since 2005, the investment has been carried out in accordance with the Act of 4 March 2005 on the establishment of a multi-annual programme "Programme for the construction of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank in the years 2006-2015" from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The Regional Water Management Board in Krakow has started to process the agreement on subsidies to finance the completion of the construction of the reservoir from the National Environmental Fund. A contract for 2 years for 53 230 thousand. PLN signed on 20 September 2016. The Regional Water Management Board in Krakow carried out preparatory work. The schedule annexed to the Agreement provides for the implementation of the tasks related to the vessel, roads and landslides in 2016. The problem with expropriation of residents was solved, the objects were dismantled, the bridge was dismantled on Skawa, led to wet start. The first filling of the Swine Poręba tank was carried out on the basis of a schedule in which the flooring periods and flooring periods are distinguished. For lifting periods, the duration depends on hydrological conditions. The expected date of completion of the first filling is mid-August 2017, and if problems arise, the end of October 2017. The start of the plant was not carried out by the end of 2016 due to the failure to reach an order above 288.5 m above sea level. It's work-friendly. In 2016, a section in the area of 10 ha was made. Annual fees were also made for 2016. It should also be stressed that the landslides have been stabilised. This task was carried out in 48%. Late access to measures, unfavorable hydrological-meteorological conditions prevented the implementation of the plan from 100%. However, I would like to stress that the deadline for completion is not at stake. The Law and Justice Club welcomes the report and the above-mentioned law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the information presented by the Minister of the Environment on the implementation in 2016 of the tasks set out in the Act of 13 May 2016 on the completion of the construction of the Swine Porba water tank, I would like to share my comments. My concern is the issue of unsecured landslides in the municipalities of Mucharz and Stryszów. These landslips continue to threaten dozens of buildings. In addition, this makes it impossible to properly store the tank's water. An additional concern is also raised by the issue of possible landslides protection, which will prove dangerous after the tank has been filled and already at the expiry of the Act. How will the possible work be financed? Another problematic issue is the need to remove the tallest trees from flood areas, which will pose a threat to the use of the reservoir. Also, you should keep in mind also about the removal of wild dumps from flood areas. Another important task is to ensure adequate capacity of access roads to areas around the tank, e.g. Roads of Gloves - Zagórze. Therefore, and in this case, the question should also be raised as to whether the funds will be provided for this. It is important for the use of the reservoir for recreational purposes to transfer the land in the form of a donation or loan to municipalities Zembrzyc, Stryszow and Muchar. The communes are calling for the transfer of areas whose area does not exceed 10 hectares in total. The Civic Platform will vote in favour of information on the implementation of the Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Construction of this important for the whole Małopolska, but even for Poland, the water reservoir on the River Skawa lasts years. It spent over PLN 2 billion on it. This investment was used as an argument in the Platform and PSL electoral campaign in 2015. It was announced loudly and prematurely that it would end. The completion of the construction of the tank in Skawa has also used the PiS politically several times in its political campaigns at local level. The previous Małopolska voivode Józef Pilch repeatedly announced that in the spring of this year Prime Minister Beata Szydło will arrive at the end of the investment. So? Nothing. The Pilcha Voivodeship is gone, the construction continues, and the summer of 2017 has already begun. Mr Józef Brynkus spoke about the need to finish the construction of the tank quickly many times during this term of office of the Sejm, a representative of the Posel Club Kukiz.15 Mr Józef Brynkus, also during the debate on the 2016 budget. Therefore, in 2016 the Sejm adopted a specialty about the completion of the Świnna Poręba reservoir. It lists the main tasks. Those relating directly to the work related to the putting into service of the vessel, those relating to the construction necessary for the communication of local people and road tourists, as well as the stabilisation of landslides. According to the Minister's report, as part of the work planned in 2016, the road Brańkówka - Go3ębówka has been completed, but has not yet been put into service. We're running out of technical receptions on this road. This road is very important not only for communication but also for sightseeing reasons. The route located on the slopes is one of the most beautiful roadways in Małopolska, but also one of the most expensive in this part of Europe, mainly due to the landslide nature of the area. Therefore, the deadline for submitting the route was postponed several times. Recently in May this year, when the contract was annexed at the end of the month. According to the Minister's report, the Dąbrówka - Durówka road was also completed in November 2016. The stabilisation of the two landslips and documentation for stabilization of the next one were also carried out. Filling of the tank in Świnna Poręba was also started. Yes, the current state of work as designated by the 2016 Specialist can be accepted, but there are still many unresolved issues that the Law and Justice are not too eager to address. They were discussed at the joint meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, local self-governments from the municipalities around the reservoir. The problem is, for example, improving the state of the road network destroyed in the implementation of the investment. The authorities of Mucharz, Stryszow and Zembrzyc sought to do so. There are transversal savings and it would be possible to use the saved funds to improve roads. However, the Ministry is not anxious with clear declarations that this will happen, explaining that the local authorities did not provide the necessary documentation. The landslips are still important. During the joint meeting of the committee, the authorities informed about the activation of further threats in the vicinity of many houses. It is important to believe in the assurance of the Minister of the Environment that the issue of landslides will be resolved on an ongoing basis. Another issue is to solve the problem of using the area around the reservoir for investment and tourism purposes. According to local authorities, the lack of a clear decision on this issue makes planning and efforts for EU funds and other financing of tourism investments difficult. For the time being, such measures are only possible in areas where landslides are not at risk, and in other areas this will be possible even in two to three years' time if there are no risks. The paradox is that, despite high assessments of the development of the municipalities submitted to the regional operational programme, there is a concern that, given the delays in the completion of the investment and the risk of landslides around the tank, the areas will remain dead for many years. Even if the two parts for which the municipalities are seeking are developed, other investors have no chance of obtaining anything from RZGW. It is also not known who will manage these areas, how the area around the tank will be secured and managed. Despite the reservations expressed, the Kukiz Club is in favour of accepting information from the Minister of the Environment about the state of completion of the works in 2016 as laid down in the Act on the completion of the construction of the Swinna Poręba Water Tank. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sowa will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the information of the Minister of the Environment on the implementation in 2016 of the tasks set out in the Act of 13 May 2016 on the completion of the construction of the Swinna Poręba Water Tank. As my previous speakers have already said, this law is intended to ensure that these tasks are carried out which have not been carried out in the course of the previous law. Value of these tasks It's just 0.2%. the total costs which have been transferred to the construction of the investment in Świnna Poręba. I realize that there is no point in mentioning each individual task, there is no reason to make a problem with the fact that there are shifts. This is usually the case that the fourth quarter of the year in the case of works, especially road works, is often dependent on weather conditions. In this case, it is not a big problem that there have been shifts here. I would like to share my concerns, which, in my view, are much more important, which were also mentioned by my previous speakers. Surely today, from the point of view of local authorities around the tank, but probably the tank itself as an investment in its entirety, the key element is the possibility of removing landslides already existing and possible potential risks that may still occur as a result of the water flooring, because this would be one of the conditions that could affect the timetable included in this Act, which should specify what the timetable for the completion of the construction of this vessel should be. The second element that worries me personally, and I believe that Mr Sonik has already mentioned it, is the tall trees and the removal of them. I don't think it's being led there, so to speak, to neutralize the bottom of the tank. He stays the way he was. In particular in the Zembrzyc area, this may be a problem when it comes to the use of this tank, because there the water level, the water mirror is much lower than in the case of the tank itself, where, let's say, even the potential tree at the bottom of the tank does not pose any danger or is not a contraindication for the further use of the tank. Minister, I therefore have a question as to whether, however, a levelling in this part is envisaged, especially for branches or quite tall trees to be removed. This is so important that we are talking about investment, which, apart from those aspects which my previous speakers have already talked about, will increase the level of flood safety of the inhabitants of Małopolska, but not only, will be used in a large part in the economic, tourism dimension. Of course, there are resources in the regional programme, and I do not share the concern that they are closely linked to the completion of this investment. These are simply sub-tank investments, which are designed to build the infrastructure necessary to ensure that the potential of the water reservoir, the water reservoir that we will have, can be used as efficiently as possible. I also have a question for the Minister to ask for an explicit declaration and I think that today it should fall. Local government officials still do not know if they can count on these additional road tasks. [[...finally documentation.]] You know, there's a gap between the government side's voice and what you hear from local governments. It is my duty as a Member also elected from this constituency to simply ask, because let us agree, let us be honest, if this decision is not made today or within a few days, it will not be possible to carry out additional road tasks in accordance with this law. Taking advantage of this opportunity, these are the questions I wanted to ask the Minister. Of course, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the information presented by the Minister for the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u285	Thank you very much. Three Members have asked questions. [[Four, and me.]] [[I wanted to sign up.]] There you go, fourth person, four Members. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. As the first Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many landowners are currently putting it on sale as an attractive tourist destination, because it is located near the reservoir, hence a very important thing to watch out for deadlines and security. The inhabitants of the municipality of Mucharz and Stryszów are concerned about the emergence of landslides threatening dozens of houses. Will the completion date be respected in view of the existence of these landslides? Will funds be allocated to improve the road network destroyed in the implementation of the investment? I ask this because the potential of this reservoir is also linked to the development of tourism and its surroundings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u287	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u288	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The tank is planned as a multipurpose tank designed to protect against the flood of Wadowice, parts of Krakow and places below the tank, for electrical production and recreational purposes. Dear Minister, I have three short questions. Are the measures at the disposal of the investor sufficient to complete the construction of the Swine Poręba reservoir? Second question: Is the expected date of first filling by mid-August 2017 realistic? Have there not been adverse hydrological, meteorological conditions that could delay this deadline? And the third question is, what is the real deadline for completing this investment, according to the Minister, unless there are any unforeseen difficulties? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u289	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question about the envisaged procedures that will allow recreational use of this tank, from the surroundings of this tank, especially in terms of those areas that belong to the RZGW. When most of these municipalities will be able to benefit from what rules and procedures are envisaged? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u291	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u292	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The filling of the tank you mentioned revealed that there were various pollutions in the flood zone, both organic and inorganic, so I would like to ask the Minister if any action would be taken on this matter. If so, who's gonna do it and what he's gonna do with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u293	The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It must be admitted that in 2016 investments were carried out in all three tasks which were foreseen in accordance with the Law adopted by the Sejm. On the other hand, I have a question, which has already been repeated, concerning the completion of this investment. It is not clear from this report whether the entire tendering procedure has been completed and all the necessary contractors have been selected, as in this report the matter has not been clearly exposed. The scope envisaged for this year, despite the large investments, has not been fully implemented for the various reasons mentioned above; I will not repeat this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask if there are measures fully secured for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u295	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A number of problems have been raised in the speeches made by your Members, as well as in the questions raised by them. Maybe I won't respond by name to each of these problems, or to groups, or issues. The first thing is to end the construction of the tank. High Izbo, this tank will be completed this year, which doesn't mean it will go into operation. The operation of such a tank - it will be put into service - depends, among others. the fact that all phenomena occurring in hydrotechnical structures are observed. I wanted to say that I'm an experienced hydrotechnician and there's no water structure where there would be no filtration phenomenon, no landslips for many years. This is a normal matter, and this is a matter to be expected, to be expected in the sense that such phenomena may arise. Therefore, this scope of tasks, which was defined for the completion of the tank, covered those roads that are being carried out, and those landslips that are, and the execution of documentation concerning subsequent landslips, as well as the observation of what is happening around the tank. We don't know if there's a new landslide yet. I'll give you an example of the Black Vistula dam. The landslide only appeared after 10 years of operation, and this must be borne in mind. And I'm gonna tell you what's involved. As far as measures are concerned, we're going into operation. In the state of operation they will manage this in accordance with the draft Water Law Polish Waters Act. The Polish waters will have their income, but above all, this hydro power plant is designed to make the revenues from this hydro power plant available for all the work that is necessary to carry out on a continuous basis. And what else is involved with these landslips and these phenomena? It also means that until we recognize all these phenomena, it will not be possible to devote the entire area to recreation. I would like to remind you that this tank is intended to be a basic function, i.e. flood prevention. The basic one is so-called. The maintenance of the river, i.e. the addition to water during periods of drought, and tourist and recreation, however extremely important, must be subject to these two tasks. About the municipalities that are a little bit complaining here. I had the opportunity to be there in 1983 at the construction site, I arrived from Gdansk on my bike and covered the whole construction. Ladies and gentlemen, that was unmatched. It was a village where there were no accesses at all, there was no asphalt. There's been an incredible civilization leap. As part of the construction of this tank, sewage systems and sewage treatment plants were carried out, water was delivered. You have to be clear that there has been an incredible civilization leap, and very well. Now here's the thing: of course, we have to think ahead of how to develop this tourism, but we can't immediately make all the areas available. However we have already made available, there is a promenade for three municipalities which present to the RPO of the Małopolska Voivodship with applications for tourist development. In January this year, I decided to give the board to these municipalities and these municipalities can submit applications. If they win the competitions, and there's a lot of evidence that they're gonna win them, they're gonna get a loan agreement for the period that's needed for the operation of this tank, these areas here. For the time being, the municipalities themselves have proposed that it will first be a period of 10 years with the possibility of extending for a further period of time. I know everyone would want even more, just like everyone would want more and more roads. Road capacity. If the tourist traffic is developing, it will not be the role of the investor or the user of the tank to expand this entire tourist infrastructure. We cannot demand that in the surroundings of the guesthouses which will arise, and certainly will arise mainly private guesthouses, the Treasury must finance the entire road infrastructure, railway infrastructure, etc. This region will be developing very quickly, let's look at those tanks that were created, such as the Nidzica reservoir or the Klimkówka reservoir, however disorderly it is in Klimkówka, there are some errors that were made, namely that they were immediately handed over to private owners of the area near the tank. What's going on? It happens that the terrain is not available to most people, because there are private cottages, some even shelters, caravans are standing, but the shore is not available. Here, too, this error cannot be made, i.e. where possible, if it is a safe area in the exploitation sense, it will be made available. I wanted to say one more thing, because I can almost bet that in a few years, there'll be complaints about something else, because we already have complaints like that. In the lake, it's about the lake reservoir. Why can't we enjoy recreation in summer? It's down because we need to get a flood reserve, because it's a flood prevention function mostly. I would like to stress very strongly that the water level in this tank will not be constant, it will be mobile depending on whether it has to intercept the flood wave or will have to give water to the river to increase, maintain the river. I wanted to talk to you about those destroyed road networks. This is really a civilization leap - what is at the moment compared to what was before the construction of the tank. There's no road network destroyed, there's new roads. Yes, there was a problem here with one way. Unfortunately, Commissioner, it will not be possible under this law to be implemented, because, as I said, there was no documentation, but this is not a road that is a sensitive road. Those roads that were sensitive will be realized. About the questions about... Because I have already answered the question that the deadline is by the end of this year, filling, as it was said, is mid-August, and as far as the normal level of flooring is concerned, there is no indication that it is at risk, or if it is very dry, it can extend until October. Of course, you have to realize that then it's not gonna be that steady either, so we're gonna go down that level again to see if there's anything that's going to happen. As far as pollution is concerned, as far as I know, there's no pollution there. Yes, there will be phenomena like plant rotting, but here there are like two hydrotechnical schools, I've already talked about it. One school is that everything cleans up to the bare ground, but then there are so-called phenomena. abrasion, that is, slipping banks, various kinds of phenomena at the bottom. It is much more beneficial to leave parts of vegetation, at least this grassy, bushy one, so that such phenomena do not arise, however, as I said earlier, also one must consider that... I remember, it was relatively recently, the chip tank - for several years there were just unpleasant smells due to rotting processes, but it is inevitable with this type of tank. Swedes e.g. They don't cut trees at all when they build tanks, even when they're in the woods, they just flood, and they don't cut them until they're flooded. When it comes to advantages and tourism, even in the backyards there is no problem, because it is always done to mark bakens, i.e. fights, for tourism. This reservoir will be made available to a large number of tourists, especially as the Małopolska region is actually very poor in recreational areas, there are practically no lakes, there are only artificial lakes and they constitute recreation, especially summer. So, to sum up, I guess I answered all the questions. The end date is this year, and from next year we are moving to the operating phase of the tank, which also means that certain works, of course in the form of public procurement, will continue to be carried out on a continuous basis during operation. However, these basic robots, which are foreseen, will end this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u297	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Paluch, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank the representatives of all the clubs for their vote in favour of this information. It is good that this debate took place mostly in an atmosphere of factuality. I would also like to remind you that in the Act of May 13th. r. it was clear that on the landslips 11A and 11B in Dąbrówka construction works will be carried out there, and for the remaining landslips there will only be documentation for this reason, which has been mentioned many times here - that as the tank is filled, these landslip phenomena may be revealed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u299	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u300	The position of the PSL Club on the information of the Minister of the Environment on the implementation in 2016 of the tasks set out in the Act of 13 May 2016 on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank. The construction of the Świnna Poręba reservoir is probably one of the longest ongoing hydrotechnical projects in Poland. The first project was created in the 1950s, and the construction started in 1986. In 2005, the Sejm adopted a timetable for completing the investment, but in the context of the financial crisis the construction of the vessel was stopped in 2009. However, in 2010 the government decided to finalise this investment. The flood of the tank was planned for 2015. Until then, approximately PLN 2.5 billion had been spent. This year the Sejm adopted a law assuming that this year over PLN 46.53 million will be built and PLN 6.7 million in the next year (the Act supported PSL). Most of the money is spent on stabilizing landslips - 25,7 million PLN in 2 years. The reconstruction of roads will cost PLN 20.6 million. The remaining PLN 6.93 million will be allocated to investments related to the vessel, which include among others. construction of dams, tanks and power plants, demolition of asphalt roads and sealing of the control and injection gallery during water flooring. The money will come from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, and the completion of the construction will rest on the shoulders of the Regional Water Management Board in Krakow. As a PSL club, we will support activities aimed at completing the investment, which is expected in particular by the inhabitants of Małopolska, who can also gain a recreational area generating new jobs, because Świnna Poręba will be the largest water in the region, which will visit more than a dozen million tourists each year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u301	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle in relation to information on the implementation in 2016 of the tasks set out in the Act of 13 May 2016 on the completion of the construction of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank together with the position of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. The construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank started in 1986, but in recent years it has been very laborious. The work moved forward only after the funds for this investment were secured, guaranteed by the Act adopted on 13 May 2016. Therefore, in 2016 the procedures for obtaining building permits were completed and tender procedures were prepared to select contractors of construction works. I am pleased that as a result of the tenders, the amount of expenditure has been reduced by 15 000. A significant change compared to 2015 was the abandonment by the last residents of the property located on the investment site. The filling of the tank carried out in 2016 went well and no irregularities were found in this respect. During that time the construction of the Dąbrówka-Durówka commune road was also completed and the removals were stabilized. Despite the failure of the whole material plan for 2016 for various reasons, the completion of the entire task of the Swine Poręba Water Tank is not threatened. The information submitted by the Minister for the Environment recommended by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry should, without doubt, be accepted. This will be the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u302	The Commission requests the adoption of information submitted by the Minister of the Environment on the implementation in 2016 of the tasks set out in the Act of 13 May 2016 on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank, contained in print No 1567. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Union Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the work-life balance of parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity (Prints 1628 and 1644). I ask Mr Kurzepa to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u303	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased to present on behalf of the Commission for European Union Affairs a report by the Commission on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the work-life balance of parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Commission for European Union Affairs at its 134th meeting on 7 June in accordance with Article. Paragraph 7 4 of the Act of 8 October 2010 on cooperation between the Council of Ministers and the Sejm and the Senate on matters relating to the membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union has examined the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between working life and private parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU - COM (2017) 253 and the draft position of the Government relating to it. The Commission adopted opinion 21 which does not support the draft directive and considers it incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity, considering that the European Commission has not sufficiently justified that the objectives pursued by the proposed directive cannot be better achieved by regulation at national level. At its 138th meeting, the European Union Commission adopted a draft resolution on the recognition of the draft directive on work-life balance of parents and carers as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. This project was immediately submitted to the marshal's staff. On 8 June 2017, the Marshal sent a letter in accordance with Article. 148cc (paragraph 148c) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm draft resolution to the European Union Committee for First Reading. At its 139th meeting on 20 June 2017, the Commission carried out a first reading of the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the work-life balance of parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity, printing No 1628. The Commission, having considered this draft resolution at its meeting on 20 June 2017, adopted a report, in print No 1644 requesting the adoption of a draft resolution without amendments. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say a few words of justification. The proposed Directive is intended to significantly affect the balance between working life and private life of working parents and carers while repealing the current Directive 2010/18/EU. The aim of the project seems justified and desirable, given in particular the intended strengthening of the role of the family in upbringing, which would be more effective through, for example, more detailed arrangements for leave, flexibility of organisation, working time or increased participation of men in the use of these forms of work organisation, which would give them equal opportunities for women to take more care of their children and raise them. However, according to the Sejm, regulation at European Union level must take into account the arrangements in force in Member States' legislation. EU regulation should not interfere with national legal solutions which effectively ensure the proper level of protection of the family in the area of child care and education. The Sejm recognises that, despite the legitimacy of the EU legislator's objective of strengthening the role of the family, both parents in the care and education of the offspring, the draft directive violates the principle of subsidiarity because the European Commission has not sufficiently justified that the objectives of the European Union to be pursued by the proposed directive can be better achieved at Union level. According to Art. 5 Protocol No 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, should contain a detailed statement enabling the assessment of compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Such a statement should include data enabling the financial impact assessment of the draft act concerned and, in the case of the Directive, its impact on the regulations introduced by the Member States, including, where appropriate, regional legislation. The conclusion that the Union objective can be better achieved at Union level is justified on the basis of qualitative indicators and, where possible, quantitative indicators. Draft legislative acts shall take into account the need to minimise any financial or administrative burden on the Union, national governments, regional or local authorities, economic operators and citizens and to ensure that such burdens are commensurate with the intended objective. The justification given by the European Commission for the draft directive does not refer to Polish legislation which ensures a high level of protection of the family in the field of child care and education. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, I would like to ask you kindly to support the draft which is currently justified by the opinion in which the Sejm states that the draft directive does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. I would like to stress that this proposal violates this principle because the European Commission has not sufficiently justified that the objectives of the European Union, which is to be pursued by the proposed directive, can be better achieved at European Union level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u304	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let me remind you that according to the article. 148cc (paragraph 148c) 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the report shall be held without the right to submit amendments. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Kurzepa will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present our opinion on the disagreement with the document submitted as being incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. I am also talking about Council Directive 2010/18 of the European Union. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposed directive, which refers to the balance between working life and private parents and carers and Council Directive 2010/18/EU COM (2017) - document 253, final, does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity referred to in Article. Point 5 (3) of the Treaty on European Union. The proposed Directive is intended to significantly affect the balance between working life and private life of working parents and carers while repealing the current Directive 2010/18/EU. The aim of the project, which seems to be most desirable in Polish legislation, is meticulously, factually and functionally very well implemented and undertaken. In view of the above, given, above all, the strengthening of the role of the family in upbringing set out in this directive, which is to be done effectively through the proposals of the European Union, family support in Polish legislation is already being carried out in a very clear and legible manner. Therefore, regulation at European Union level, which should take into account the solutions in our legislation and should not interfere with national legal solutions, in this case does not allow us to feel that this will be more effective and this will be a solution of better quality. In view of the above, it is recognised that despite the legitimacy of the EU's aim, namely to strengthen the role of the family, especially in terms of the presence of both spouses in the case of child care and education, the Polish legislation provides this privilege and this opportunity for both parents as much as possible. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice, I consider that the project under discussion is in breach of the principle of subsidiarity because the European Commission has not sufficiently justified that the objectives of the European Union to be pursued by the proposed directive can be better achieved at European Union level. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposal of the Parliamentary Commission for European Union Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This directive aims to better harmonise professional life, professional responsibilities and family responsibilities. It is, like other directives, the introduction of certain minimum standards throughout the European Union, which all countries would be required to implement within 2 years. It concerns maternity, paternity, caring and parental leave, and concerns the flexibility of work. In all these cases there are Polish regulations, often quite advanced and often going further than this directive, but in some cases our legislation will require some additions or remodeling. I believe that for the benefit of this legislation and for the benefit of those with young children. First, maybe I should start with whether this directive is based on the European Treaties. It is based on the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1, which states that - I quote: the Union supports and complements the activities of the Member States in the following areas - and this is mentioned here - equality between men and women with regard to their employability and treatment at work. If we say that we already have many of these things used, let's say this: e.g. There are very many environmental rules in Sweden at a very high level, but if the European Union also introduces them to other countries where they are not applied at such a level, that does not mean that this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. The Union wants to apply a minimum level to all countries. And that is also the intention of this project to have this minimum level in all countries. In Poland, in some cases this level is quite clearly exceeded, and in others it will require some addition. Where are the most important points that require some changes in Polish legislation? They relate primarily to parental leave. In Poland we now have after paternity leave, after maternity leave 32 weeks parental leave paid for the first 6 weeks 100% , then - 60% which can be used by a father or a mother, can be given this holiday as if to pass. The directive introduces something like this: 4 months of this leave will only be for a specific parent - 4 months will have a father and 4 months will have a mother, and they cannot give up on it. So either we need to remodel this solution, or we need to add additional powers, which would be much more expensive for a father to have that right, but without giving up on his mother. Secondly, the directive extends the use of this leave from 6 years to 12 years, so some additional costs that would be here, perhaps would be spread over more years, so that at the moment these costs would not be particularly higher. However, this is very important because in Poland this parental leave is very little used by fathers and as many as 90% of women complain that they are not treated equally on the labour market, among others. because of that. Also when it comes to childhood, yes, we care about childhood, more births. One of the main causes and barriers to increasing the number of children and deciding on motherhood is the difficulty of combining family responsibilities with professional responsibilities. The implementation of this Directive would facilitate this. Another example of this directive is flexible working time. We have flexible working time, work at home, part-time work and teleworking everywhere. These solutions exist in our Labour Code, but firstly, they can probably be extended, and secondly, the directive gives additional powers to parents with children up to 12 years of age. Namely, they may submit such an application to the employer and if the employer refuses to grant him flexible working time, he must justify it. So this strengthens the right to flexible working time. In total, I believe that this project will strengthen equality of treatment in the labour market in Poland of women, mothers and fathers, improve childhood, will not cost too much and will also contribute to the fact that in Europe we will have raised minimum standards. So I think we'd make a mistake if we rejected him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He should be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we will agree to the committee's position. Personally, I think that there is far too much EU law, and already in the case in which we are dealing with this particular directive, that is something we do not need. We have these standards introduced for a long time in our ways and to all this with Polish specificity. What I have been very interested in in this directive is the European Union's emphasis on equal treatment of both parents. On this issue, we have a lot to do, but this is a completely different discussion when we can deal with issues such as the replacement care requested by the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. But this is a completely different opportunity. In this case, we support the committee's position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u310	Thank you. On behalf of the Modern Club, Mrs Elżbieta Stępień will perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present the club's position on the draft resolution on the recognition of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between working life and private parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity, print No 1628, together with the committee's report, print No 1644. In the explanatory memorandum of the draft resolution, the applicant does not question the validity and normative content of the Directive of the European Council, but only questions its adoption at EU level, questioning precisely the application of the Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Treaty on European Union, i.e. It is the principle of subsidiarity. Considering that the subject of the regulation concerning, inter alia, parental leave by equalling the length of parental leave applies equally to all citizens and residents of the European Union, and this position calling into question the legitimacy of the subsidiarity principle in order to unify national legislation at the level of European law is unfounded. The aim of this directive is to align parents' rights with parental, caring or maternity leave, which is implemented in Polish legislation at the same time. In the absence of a conflict between this directive and the direction of the changes in national legislation, it is pointless to question subsidiarity and is merely an expression of the anti-EU policy of the governing party. It is clear that the implementation of this directive will lead to equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market. For these reasons, the recitals of the motion for resolutions are unclear to us. We are in favour of this directive. I would also like to add that the more generous the privileges for women alone, the more they affect women's discrimination in the labour market. I believe that the situation does not change significantly in such categories that it is possible to divide holidays between parents, hence the Association Club It is modern in favour of this directive and opposes the adoption of this resolution proposed by the Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u312	Thank you. One Member joined the question. You're welcome. I'm closing the list of questions to be asked. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u313	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I am extremely surprised at the decision of your government, your group, in the context of this directive, this resolution. Because on the one hand, the state always wears the fact that the most important thing for Poland is the family. Indeed, the Civic Platform, the PSL, as well as the state in these shelters, family records, have done a lot. We have gone beyond what is enshrined in this directive. But the question is different: aren't we supposed to try to get other EU countries to start using this to strengthen their families in other countries, even when it comes to these small steps that have been written by the European Union? There's even a word for it here. Sorry, social dumping. We do, and they don't. Let us also demand that in other countries [[♪ The bell ♪]] This type of benefit has been applied. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u314	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Szwed, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this debate, but I think that perhaps not all of you know, especially those who applauded the speeches, which is actually included in this directive, because if you knew, the positions would be a little different. First of all, this is the first thing - of course, the government is very supportive of the proposals made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. European both the Polish Sejm and the Senate to the extent that it supports us in this action. We believe that this is a far-reaching interference in the state's established national family policy. We have a good country's family policy and we implement it, and these proposals interfere with this. Firstly, if we are talking about a few reservations about this, I would like to say that today we have maternity leave, parental leave and it is the parents themselves who decide to what extent they want to use this leave. The adoption of the solution proposed by the European Union creates two situations. Someone here said that today parental leave is underused by fathers, even though there is freedom. Well, in Poland it is still functioning - and fortunately - such a model of the family, in which the mother mainly cares about raising the child, not the father, because it is shaped and it is better for the child. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But isn't there too much on the shoulders of a woman?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Wait a minute, sir, let me finish, because if you understand what is contained in this directive, you might change your mind. If we introduce this solution that you're proposing, we either add four months' leave to our fathers, or four months' leave is lost, mothers will lose four months. Today, if we put this in place, there'd be four months of loss unless you're talking about some low cost. Therefore, I will give you the cost of introducing an additional 4 months' leave - that is about PLN 3 billion. If we have that kind of resources... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, do not be rational, do not speak foolishly from this speaker. [[Then don't talk about $3 billion.]] Don't just say stupid things. [[Voice from the hall: Because Poles abroad do not...]] Don't be silly, sir. Think about what you're saying. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u316	Minister, let's not discuss this with the people in the courtroom. It's a waste of time. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Second thing. If we're talking about nursing leave, there's no nursing leave in our legislation today. If we wanted to introduce this, it would be a cost if we transferred it to employers, 13 billion PLN. I understand that the Platform wants to charge employers additional costs of PLN 13 billion. Well, there you go. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Tell me straight, it's about the money.]] Here you go, if you want to bring it in, bring it in. Secondly, if we were to switch it to... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Mr. President, don't bother me, okay? Don't disturb me. [[Voice from the Chamber: Members ask and...]] No, I'm talking to the Members in the Chamber. I'm not saying... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, how many times do you interfere with the speaker? I'm asking you to stop disturbing me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: If we are talking about the amount to be covered by the Social Insurance Fund, that is 10 billion PLN. If you feel that such costs are no cost, congratulations, I am truly admired by your discretion in terms of the activities of funding. The third issue concerns the solutions I have already mentioned. As for the four-month period of non-transferability, as I say, we either lose four months' leave for our mothers, or we don't lose it. The decision made by the European Commission is a strong violation of the subsidiarity principle for our country. This is why we support our solutions and even a country like the Netherlands has taken a similar position to our country's position. So let us behave rationally in such matters, but let us not try on the occasion of some solutions which absolutely do not conform to our reality, to our solutions which are adopted in our country, which are good for Polish families. Let's keep this family model in our country. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'm closing... Is the Member corrected? [[Yeah, I just...]] You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u317	Minister, I think there's a misunderstanding here about nursing leave, because the directive is talking about nursing leave. We don't have that name, but we do apply sick leave to a child or a loved one who is cared for up to 60 days a year, so I guess that's equivalent. Isn't that an equivalent solution to what the directive is talking about? You wrote yourself that this is the solution that... This is in your explanations, at this point you wrote: This allowance is entitled to 60 days per calendar year if the child is only cared for. In the case of care for other family members, the allowance shall be payable up to 14 days per calendar year. In total, this may not be more than 60 days a year. So that means we have a similar solution. And maybe this should - I don't know - clarify within the European Council that this solution meets the requirements set out in the directive, but we should not be scared by some large numbers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u318	Thank you. I'm closing... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Can I have two more sentences?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u319	Today, our legislation refers to 60 days for the insured person, and here it is the other way around. This is a completely different approach and hence the costs we are talking about. If we are introducing a new solution, it generates the costs that I said: at the level of employers - 13 billion PLN, at the level of the Social Insurance Fund, if we do not transfer it to employers - in the amount of 10 billion PLN. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u320	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u321	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the committee's report on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between working life and private parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. At the beginning of the speech I will present specific forms of parental support introduced by the Polish People's Party. Two types of leave in connection with the birth of a child: maternity leave, 20 weeks, and parental leave, 32 weeks, 52 weeks. If multiples are born, the length of leave shall be extended to a maximum of 71 weeks. More than 631 000 have benefited from them throughout 2014. parents, including 471.9 thousand. Women and 159,3 thousand. Men. In addition, parents benefit from parental benefit, I will remind you, mowered - without a plus, which is currently not possible, PiS always has to add a plus - in the amount of 1,000. net zloty paid for the whole year, regardless of what the income of the family is. There are no income thresholds, which counters negative situations when a single mother exceeds the income threshold by PLN 10 and is deprived of benefits. Additional parental support may be provided by unemployed persons, students and persons employed for civil law contracts. High Izbo! We are currently debating, I will stress, a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which clearly indicates that these are not acceptable solutions. Of course, as the party responsible for the family-friendly policy in the previous term, which introduced the longest leave for parents in Europe, we are opposed to any solutions that restrict parents' rights. I looked at the press material in the context of the draft directive and one article raised my concerns. They want to take the mother's children - this was the title of the article on issues related to parental leave. Furthermore, the text clearly states that mothers will be forced to return to work less than 9 months after birth. This false information should be corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, no one will take your children. No one will be forced to shorten your maternity or parental leave. The solutions we have put in place will continue to apply. In my view, the basic aim of the draft directive should be to support the activation of parents by the institutional care system, nursery facilities and the clubs of the little one. These are solutions that will affect the higher activity of parents who want to take up work as soon as possible. It is worth noting the Commissioner's statement: Our new proposal aims to strengthen rights and improve conditions for active parents and carers so that they can reconcile their working life with family responsibilities. This is already ensured by our legislation, which is best borne out by the facts. The "Maluch" programme - more than 32 thousand co-financed. care places for the youngest. In 2011 there were 571 institutions all over Poland, now there are almost 5 times more. Over 2.7,000. places provide care over 71 thousand. children. Since the beginning of the programme, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has allocated PLN 472 million to this purpose. Large Family Card - over 1.1 million cards received, more than 800 companies and institutions granting discounts in 7.5 thousand. Places. Goldilocks for the gold.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u322	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I will present our position on the report by the European Union's Committee on Affairs on a Commission draft resolution on the recognition of a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between working life and private parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The draft resolution expressed the position of the Polish Parliament on the assessment of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between working life and private parents and carers. According to the Polish Sejm, the European Commission has not sufficiently justified that the objectives of the European Union to which the proposed directive is intended can be better achieved at Union level than in the Member States. We all agree that regulations on strengthening the role of the family in upbringing are extremely important. The flexibility of parents' working time and the increased participation of men in the educational process are also appropriate orientations. However, the regulation proposed by the European Union must take into account the arrangements in force in national law. In my opinion, our national law perfectly protects Polish families with regard to the care of their offspring and their upbringing, ensuring high standards in this regard. Therefore, the Free and Solidarni wheel supports the draft resolution on the recognition of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance of working life between parents and private carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u323	We will proceed to the vote on the committee's resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act (Print No 1602). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present a draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, which we used to call the Act on accelerated depreciation. The main objective of the proposed change is to create a mechanism to stimulate investments made by entrepreneurs, including, we assume, and this is presented in the impact assessment of regulation, especially by small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposed instrument, the proposed legal solution, will provide the possibility of annual single settlement of fixed capital expenditure up to 100,000. zł, with a minimum value of 10 thousand. zł. We are talking about the possibility for entrepreneurs to accumulate such expenses, provided that they are not less than 10 000. PLN and does not exceed 100,000. £ per year. There is also an expansion of the circle of players who will be able to benefit from this settlement - as it will be an instrument not covered by the de minimis regime, it can also be used by entrepreneurs who have benefited in recent years, for example. with the funding of various programmes from the European Union. We hope that the possibility to make such a one-off depreciation will encourage entrepreneurs - we already have such signals - to invest in machines and devices, because these are also categories indicated in the catalogue of those that can be counted down. At the same time, it is an instrument that appears on the market at a time when European measures are practically preventing entrepreneurs from expanding the machinery park, because such measures simply do not exist in this financial perspective. So, seeing this gap in the market, we hope that this instrument will make such investments feasible for small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, this law solves a long-standing problem concerning entrepreneurs, legal persons and organisational units without legal personality, which e.g. buy tickets from foreign air carriers. The proposed amendment aims at abolishing the current obligation of Polish economic operators 10% tax on revenues from air tickets, because in practice it is impossible or significantly impeded to carry out this obligation. What does it look like, what is the scope of the proposed changes? According to the draft article. Article 22 (2) (b) 14 and 15 Natural Persons Income Tax Act and Art. 16 The Corporate Income Tax Act provides for the introduction of a single settlement mechanism for investment expenditure up to 100 000. PLN per year by including them in the cost of obtaining revenue as a result of write-downs made. The proposed deductions will apply to fixed assets of groups 3 and 6 and 8 of the classification of fixed assets, which is precisely the machinery and equipment I mentioned. Real estate - buildings and constructions - and means of transport were excluded from the scope of this solution. These regulations will allow taxable persons purchasing new fixed assets which have not been used before either by that buyer or by another taxable person. This acquisition may take place both in ownership and in joint ownership, in accordance with the general arrangements in force in income taxes. The new rules will allow taxpayers of PIT and CIT, whose investments in fixed assets in a given year amounted to at least 10 000. PLN and related to new fixed assets. The limit mentioned is 100,000. PLN includes the total amount of depreciation and the amount of payment made for the delivery of the fixed asset. In addition, the project foresees that the taxpayer will be able to include 10 000 in the limit. zloty value of several fixed assets, each of these fixed assets must be higher than 3,5 thousand. zł. So, as I said at the beginning, we are convinced that this is primarily a tool for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for whom this expense, as we say, is up to 100,000. PLN is an important expenditure in the company's budget. At the same time, if the taxpayer starts depreciation of the asset - and this is also an important change - with a value of less than 10 000. PLN and over 3.5 thousand. zł and then take into account its value in the limit of 10,000. zł, then the depreciation write-downs made so far remain in the cost and include a single write-down of 100,000. the value of the fixed asset is subject to the unimpreciated value of the asset. Where the taxpayer incurs an investment expense of more than 100,000. zł, this makes a single write-down to that amount in the tax year and the remaining surplus will be able to absorb according to the general rules in the following tax years, the sum of the write-downs and payments referred to in Article. 22, which is included in the cost of obtaining revenue, must not exceed the initial value of those fixed assets. Taxpayers will be able to benefit from the proposed solutions regardless of their form of business, as I mentioned earlier. However, in the case of operating in the form of a company which is not a legal person, the depreciation limit of 100,000. will concern all the partners of this company. Given that the current rules provide a solution for a single depreciation of up to 50,000. The euro - addressed to small taxpayers and start-ups - is in the case of acquisition of a fixed measure giving entitlement to a single write-off of both 50 000. The euro and the proposed amount of 100,000. PLN write-off on this asset will only be able to be made by the taxpayer on the basis of one of these arrangements. It's obvious, of course, that the bill provides for a one-off deduction. In addition, it is proposed in Article. 22 enabling taxable persons to count directly in the cost of obtaining the revenue of payments made, e.g. advances on the acquisition of a fixed asset the delivery of which will be carried out in subsequent reporting periods, i.e. next month, quarter or year. It is also such a preference for small and medium-sized enterprises, for which the acquisition of fixed assets is often spread over time, the accumulation of funds for a given expenditure also postpones the acquisition of a fixed asset itself. Taking into account the advance payment made will allow taxable persons who purchase such a permanent measure to be included in the costs of obtaining the investment effort in advance. At the same time, this advance will then be taken into account by reducing the amount of a single write-down. These solutions are dictated by the fact that the advance relates to a fixed asset and is included in its initial value, i.e. in the expenditure on its acquisition and therefore in the limit of a single depreciation write-off. At the same time, the principle of determining the income from the paid disposal of the fixed asset to which the advance relates was maintained when proposing these arrangements. The revenue from the paid disposal of such a fixed asset will be determined by reducing revenue by an initial value taking into account the depreciation write-offs made from that fixed asset. The advance paid, although included in the initial value of the fixed asset, does not reduce this value in determining the proceeds from the disposal of the fixed asset. The advance is also not a depreciation copy. For this reason, the difference between the revenue and the initial value of the fixed asset in determining the income from the sale of the fixed asset will not be increased by the advance paid on the fixed asset. How do we estimate the impact of this regulation? As I said, first of all, we estimate that this will be a law that will mainly concern small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In 2015, the tax due in companies showed more than 175 thousand. CIT taxpayers, more than 400 thousand. PIT-36 and 727 000 payers PIT-36L payers. At the same time, this is the number of entities that will be able to benefit from the proposed one-off settlement of investment expenditure. Of course, we know that not all bets, not all of them will benefit from this possibility or even part of it, because not all entrepreneurs will invest more than 10,000. annually or will not be cost-effective due to the business profile. On the basis of the current business structure and calculations we have carried out at the Ministry of Development, we assume that about 154 000 can benefit from the programme. entrepreneurs, therefore, we assume that this is a significant circle of beneficiaries of this legal solution. In countries belonging to the European Union, the system of income deductions is, of course, an established practice to stimulate an increase in investment expenditure. In the UK it is possible to deduct one-off depreciation of fixed assets excluding passenger cars and therefore a similar solution as in our case, with a value not higher than 200,000. Pounds. Similar solutions are in Spain, and Hungary has introduced the possibility of one-off depreciation of the advance on the purchase of machinery and equipment, means of transport excluding cars, buildings, land and improvement of the asset and therefore a symmetrical solution similar to what we propose. We assume that this project is the creation of a favourable and announced climate strategy for responsible development for entrepreneurs so that they take the risk of new investments, while at the same time mitigating them with the risk of reducing the tax burden. The expected effect of the change in revenue generated by foreign air navigation companies in Poland will be to remove the difficulties in applying the current regulation in practice, and to eliminate the excessive obligation will allow Polish economic operators to reduce tax risk, as well as to allocate resources to other activities. Estimated impact on the state budget and local government units. We assume that the revenue of the state budget will decrease mainly in the first 3 years of the regulation, but this reduction will decrease in the following years. We bear in mind that this decrease will be due to a different distribution of dues over time, not to the omission, payment or reduction of dues at all. Furthermore, we assume that the aim of the programme is not to reduce the charges, but to stimulate the supply side of the economy, the purchasing party for these machines and equipment, which should lead to an increase in the production potential of the economy and increase investment levels, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. All the macroeconomic analyses we have carried out, and we have done them in cooperation, e.g. with the Institute for Market, Consumption and Conjugation Research, show that the change introduced through investment stimulation will provide a significant demand boost. In particular, we assume that the result will be approx. 2800 new jobs, and therefore the tax base will be expanded, which will be the beneficiary, among others. local government units that will retain part of the income from PIT. Our estimates have allowed us to determine that, as I mentioned, the program will generate less than 3,000 extras. jobs, which will translate into an increase in revenue by about PLN 138 million, which will, on the other hand, result in an increase in budgetary revenues as well as an increase in income at the disposal of consumers. Changes in the scope of income tax collection due to revenues generated in Poland by foreign air navigation companies will result in changes in the revenue of the state budget. These revenues will decrease, but not by more than PLN 0.5 million per year, and therefore this is a trace change. We also assume that this expected impact on the activities of micro and small enterprises... In addition, it is a positive change, and thus one which will be able to apply after the approval of the Sejm from the beginning of this tax year, even though it enters into its duration. In line with the information that we have after consultation, also widely understood consultations with entrepreneurs, this will indeed affect the expansion of machinery parks, even small ones, in small and medium-sized enterprises, and thus will be a significant investment boost, reducing, somewhat reducing the costs of making such investments. The draft law, as I mentioned at the outset, is not covered by the provisions of European Union law on State aid and the proposed solution, because it is not selective, concerns everyone. We often say that it is a support instrument primarily for small and medium-sized ones, but rather we estimate it because of the range of interventions rather than the limits. In the event of a one-off depreciation, all taxpayers will have the right to benefit from this form in a given tax year. The proposed amendment is in line with European Union law. By presenting this amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, I recommend that you adopt the proposed amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u325	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Polak will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u326	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, contained in print No. 1602. As the Minister was kind to say, the bill submitted gives entrepreneurs the opportunity to make annual one-off payments of investments involving the purchase of factory new fixed assets such as machinery, tools and other technical equipment, except for real estate and means of transport. This regulation is mainly designed for small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups, and the limit of one-off annual settlement of fixed capital expenditure must not exceed 100 000. PLN and must be at least 10,000 in a given year. zł. The aim of these solutions is to encourage entrepreneurs to invest more in modernising and introducing modern, innovative solutions in jobs and thus to improve their competitiveness and to raise their interest in investing in new means of production and not, so far, mainly in local investment and in modes of transport. Such an extended allocation of investment in small and medium-sized enterprises is expected to have a positive impact on the process of modernising production of fixed assets and creating new jobs and improving the conditions and quality of existing jobs. The proposed project also provides for changes in the collection of income tax on revenues obtained in Poland by foreign air navigation companies. These changes consist in abolishing the existing obligation for national operators to pay a 10% tax on revenues from air tickets, and the reason for this solution is limited possibilities for fulfilling this obligation, which is often impossible in practice. The implementation of this proposal will reduce the revenue of the state budget, mainly in the first 3 years, but in the following years this revenue reduction is expected to decrease. Nevertheless, the proposed solutions will have a significant impact on the development and operation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Our club recognises the legitimacy and need to implement the regulations in question and fully supports the draft law submitted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u327	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Artur Gierada.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position regarding the draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, contained in print No. 1602. A one-off settlement mechanism for investment expenditure is envisaged up to 100 000. PLN per year by including them in the cost of obtaining revenue as a result of write-downs made. As was mentioned, they include groups 3, 6 and 8 classifications of fixed assets. On the other hand, real estate and means of transport were excluded from the scope of this solution. Taxpayers purchasing new fixed assets will be able to benefit from these regulations. Taxpayers of both CIT and income tax will be able to benefit from the proposed solutions. A limit of 100,000. PLN includes the total amount of depreciation and the amount of payment for delivery of the fixed asset. It is also proposed to allow taxable persons to count directly on the cost of obtaining the revenue of advances made on the acquisition of fixed assets, the supply of which will be carried out during the subsequent reporting periods. In addition, the Act solves a long-standing problem concerning entrepreneurs, legal persons and organisational units without legal personality who buy tickets from foreign air carriers. So far, they have been burdened with a 10% tax, which has sometimes been difficult to collect. In practice, this obligation was impossible or significantly impeded in the light of the obligations imposed on them by the State. Today we leave this tax, but only for those entrepreneurs who use non-scheduled flights, so they can actually negotiate ticket prices with the potential carrier themselves. In 2015, the tax due in companies showed more than 1300 thousand. taxpayers. At the same time, this is the number of entities that will be able to benefit from the one-off investment billing. It is assumed that about 154 thousand will benefit from the programme. entrepreneurs. In countries belonging to the European Union, the system of income deductions is an established practice to stimulate an increase in investment expenditure. In the UK it is possible to deduct one-off depreciation of fixed assets, excluding passenger cars, as in this project, with no value higher than 200,000. Pounds. Here, despite these changes, we can clearly state that our taxpayers still do not have as high thresholds as these. in the UK or in other countries of the European Union, because e.g. in Spain, a one-off depreciation of fixed assets of EUR 10 million is possible and such deductions may be made by small and medium-sized enterprises. The changes made will have an impact on the state budget and the budget of local government units. As the rapporteur from Law and Justice said, they will reduce resources for the first three years. I agree with that, although it must be said that all this amount will not actually be reduced, but will be more extended at the time of the payment of this tax or this tribute, in this case the tax that is due to the State. The government's analysis indicates that there could be 28,000. new jobs. I think they're optimistic. However, I stress that this is a good solution for taxpayers. Besides, this is a solution that was implemented under the Civic Platform's rule in the anti-crisis package. That's when it came true. And today we are pleased that it will be introduced permanently. But even if the bill is good, it doesn't mean it can't be better. And here we cannot understand, as a Civic Platform club, the limitations and this threshold to 10,000. zł. In short, the rapporteur from the PiS said that this is mainly for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and that these micro-entrepreneurs completely exclude it. High Izbo, imagine that today, if these regulations come into play with such a standard, it's with a phone call, an iPhone that costs more than 3.5,000. zł, the micro-entrepreneur will no longer be able to use this copy. We are increasing its bureaucracy at this point, because it must be subject to depreciation, and in some way it is lending the state budget. Therefore, in further work, if the High House directs this project to further work, which, as a Civic Platform Club, we will recommend, I am already announcing that the Civic Platform will table an amendment deleting the conditions set out in the new paragraph. Points 1 and 2 of Article 15 22k. Besides, we have talked about this many times, and work has already been done in our governments to increase the depreciation limit from 3.5 thousand. Up to 10,000. I think that would solve the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u329	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr Michał Jaros will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u330	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, print no.1602. The government project concerns the possibility for entrepreneurs to settle their fixed capital expenditure on an annual basis up to a maximum of 100,000. zł, with a minimum value of 10 thousand. PLN, as well as the extension of the circle of entities that will be able to benefit from this settlement. In addition, the amendment proposed in the Act aims to abolish the current obligation for Polish operators to pay a 10% tax on revenues from air tickets. During the public consultation on this project, numerous comments and concerns were presented. As indicated, among others. the business community, the proposed changes may discriminate against a large group of entrepreneurs who provide or operate transport services with such a profile and transport means are among the main tools for generating revenue. On the other hand, the SKOK National Bank has requested that the catalogue of investments covered by the proposed relief be extended to include fixed assets both manufactured by the taxpayer itself and not owned by the taxpayer. Leaving the provisions of the amendment unchanged significantly reduces the list of investments covered by the proposed relief, which in turn will contribute to the emergence of negative economic effects, which, of course, we want to avoid. The Modern Club considers the main idea of the bill to be worthwhile and that it can positively improve the situation of our entrepreneurs, but the comments made during the public consultation cannot be ignored. Of course, we have a number of questions about this draft law, as my club colleague Mr Paweł Kobyliński will talk about in a moment, but in principle we are in favour of supporting this draft law, for further work on it in the parliamentary committees. On the other hand, of course, I hope that our doubts will be clarified and some proposals for new solutions will be accepted by the majority of the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u331	Thank you. On behalf of the Club, Mr Paweł Kobyliński will continue to use the next part of his time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u332	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Courage! Why so little, only 100,000.? You could make 1 million or 10 million at once, just as it is in other countries. It seems to me that this would have an even better impact on economic development. I'm also wondering why you didn't include commercial vehicles in this project, which means why a fryer can be bought more expensive and already a delivery truck can't. This is an inconsistency for me. As far as I understand why not a passenger car, why not a commercial vehicle that is typically used for work, this is incomprehensible to me. It's also worth thinking, as one of my esteemed speakers has said, about closing this hole between seven... sorry, between three and three thousand. 10,000 zlotys. zł. This seems to be an inconsistency. Besides, we as the Modern Club at one time proposed to increase this one-off depreciation. It could be converted under this law right away. Dear Minister, High Izbo! It's nice to work on a project where everyone can say, we agree on the direction. On the other hand, it seems to me that he is not radical enough in these ideas, especially since, Minister, this economic cycle in the world will be increasingly collapsing. The world isn't going to grow as fast as it's been for the last few years, so we need to think ahead, think very bravely. Hence my appeal: the 100,000. It's not enough. In the election campaign, there was talk of a 100% investment write-off, as I recall. Here's 100 and here's 100, but it's a little different type of hundred, so to speak. There's one more thing that I think is worth pointing out here. I didn't see the inflation rate in this project. In 2000, when this one-off write-down was introduced at 3.5 thousand. zł, no inflation rate is reported either. Today's the same $3.5,000. It's worth $5,000. I'm afraid if we don't give this inflation rate here, the good solution will be... For some years, it will be written back the same way, but that's 100,000. It won't mean 100,000 anymore. I have one more question, but time is running out, so I'm gonna ask them in a series of questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u333	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mrs Genowef Tokarska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present my position on the draft law amending the CIT and PIT Act from print No.1602. According to the government's justification, the bill aims to stimulate investments made by entrepreneurs, mainly by amending depreciation rules. The project introduces the possibility of one-off settlement of investments up to 100 thousand. PLN per year, with a minimum value of 10 000. In the cost of obtaining revenue, taxpayers will only be able to take into account depreciation for fixed assets from certain classification groups. According to the classification, these are machines and equipment - groups of fixed assets from III to VI and VIII. The project does not include real estate, i.e. buildings and buildings, and means of transport, which my previous speakers spoke about a lot. Indeed, it is difficult to disagree with the statement that the issue of commercial vehicles should be considered. Other conditions are that the project covers only pre-existing new fixed assets which have not previously been used by either the buyer or by another taxable person and the funds which are owned or co-owned. So there are more restrictions. The bill also solves the difficult problem of Polish operators who buy tickets from foreign air carriers. The project abolishes the obligation to pay 10% tax on air ticket revenues. Both proposals for solutions in the project are certainly a convenience for a group of entrepreneurs. It's just a pity that for a strictly chosen group. This causes unnecessary confusion. Moreover, it is similar with regard to the strict definition of fixed assets that are subject to these facilities. We understand the government's intentions in terms of falling investment, especially private investment, but this project is not going to heal the situation. After all, the main reason why entrepreneurs are reluctant to invest is the instability of Polish law, including financial law. We are not simplifying this right, which has been put forward and debated today. The project introduces new solutions for depreciation write-offs, which were regulated in the recent past, in 2016. At that time, I would remind you that one-off depreciation was accepted from the initial value of fixed assets up to an amount not exceeding the equivalent of 50,000 in the tax year. EUR for taxpayers in the first year of activity and small taxpayers whose income in the previous year did not exceed EUR 1.2 million. The new draft law introduces an artificial lower limit on the value of the asset subject to a write-down of 10 thousand, without giving the possibility of one-off depreciation of the applicable unit rate of 3,5 thousand. That would make it a lot easier to write down. This is justified, all the more so as lower investment purchases relate to small companies, i.e. this prudent investment. The Polish Crafts Association states that these incentives to invest will not receive about 550 thousand. enterprises. Another example of the complexity of the law is not to include a single deduction of fixed assets which are depreciable, used by the taxpayer under a financial lease agreement or from the so-called. groups of investments in foreign fixed assets. It is worth noting that the project in question will not reduce the payments to the state budget, but will only spread them over time, and the revenue of the state budget will decrease mainly in the first 3 years of this regulation. In conclusion, the draft law, despite its comments and reservations, deserves further debate in the Committee on Public Finance and the proposed one-off depreciation mechanism will certainly provide a good incentive for investment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u335	Thank you very much. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, asks the question first. Absent. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, also the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment is intended to cover more than 1 000 300 economic operators. But I wanted to point out that over 500,000. Small companies can be excluded from it and it will be a great disadvantage for them. It's about micro companies that won't be able to invest 10,000 in a year. PLN in fixed assets, therefore the investment allowance provided for in the Act will not cover them. The possibility of a single write-down should not be limited as regards fixed assets with a price below 10 000. zł. Nor will companies taxed with flat-rate income tax which do not account for costs benefit from the relief. Will the authors of the project pay attention to this during the further process of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u337	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Katarzyna Czochar... Therefore, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two specific questions. First: Why disable entities that do not have a positive financial result? Why is it that you don't give a chance to entities that, on a temporary basis, often don't have a profit for themselves and need support? It would be a real help to them. And second question. This project has implications for the state budget, but not only. There are also implications for the budgets of local authorities, especially in the first 3 years of the law. These are significant amounts. Is the project, not necessarily the project... Are there expected compensations for local authorities at a time when these effects are quite high? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u339	Thank you. The question is asked by Artur Gierada, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I gave an example of iPhone here during the club's speech and I will dig up the subject, because it really seems irrational to me that gap between 3.5,000. PLN and 10,000. zł. Because I know that you might even want to stimulate these micro-entrepreneurs to spend more, but we have to remember that these are the smallest entrepreneurs, often one-man businesses, and someone, buying this iPhone, is placing purchases of things they need for work, often for 3 years, because one year they buy iPhone, the other buys a laptop, and the third buys a printer. In this case, I doubt he has the power to buy everything in one year. Once, that equipment not only absorbs, let's say, accounting, but also absorbs itself in life. Let me remind you that in fact the amount of 3.5 thousand is itself. zł, this depreciation threshold has not been changed for almost 20 years, although inflation at that time was [[♪ The bell ♪]] over 40 percent, and I really think that you would solve and solve this second problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u341	Thank you, sir. Now the question is asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u342	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The first question is from a series of these repeated today: Why 10,000. Evil? This is simply the artificial value of the asset from which a one-off depreciation is applied. Why isn't this the unit amount of 3.5,000? Evil? I also told you why it's so important. And the second question is that the depreciation is also subject to fixed assets that are purchased through a leasing contract. If they are depreciated, why can this law not also be applied to them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u343	Thank you very much. Now Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u344	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Such a question: Isn't it worthwhile to introduce the principle faster, that is, if we have a measure lasting for 130 thousand. zł, that's 100,000. PLN we amortize in one year, and 30,000. zł - right in the next one and then we wouldn't break it down for three years? And one more question. I wonder if it is also worth introducing this principle not only on new fixed assets, but also on used, for a simple reason - they are used depreciated, i.e. somewhere else would be tax and it is possible that some of the money would remain in the Polish economic system, because as we know, a large part of the fixed assets is imported and then by this provision we could reduce the payment deficit when it comes to payments, and it seems that this could also have a good impact on our economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u345	Thank you very much. Minister of State undersecretary of the Ministry of Development Jadwiga Emilewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for the positions of all clubs, which are in principle positive of the proposed changes, and all the questions that you have raised, which were questions that we asked ourselves from January to the end of February, until mid-March, when the consultation of the draft law was ongoing. As I mentioned, they were consulted in a very broad group with organisations representing all actors, including craftsmen, whose questions I hear here repeated several times by several of your Members and Members. Moreover, the draft of this law, which is also important - I am sorry that I was talking about methodology, not answering questions directly, but this is also important - these proposed changes are not only the result, comparing several algorithms, but also a real response to the research that we conducted among several hundred entrepreneurs from all over Poland based on direct interviews with them. So that we have a sense of sound preparation of a legal act. The doubts most frequently raised in all the questions concerned the limit, the 10,000. Indeed, we talked about it and, of course, the most common example given was whether or not to absorb a mobile phone, because it is the only one we can imagine, the most probably used measure, in which we could talk about depreciation. We have decided on this limit of 10,000, because the bill addresses two goals. One of them is really facilitating, stimulating demand for fixed assets in small and medium-sized enterprises, which is, as I have said several times, the expansion of the machinery park, because even in the case of small and medium-sized buyers, conducting their business activities, for example. in the garage, I don't know, making plexiglas casts in such a form, it is what we imagine can be put aside in time and may not be postponed in time by means of a solution adopted. So we were talking here, on the one hand, about facilitating business activity for entrepreneurs, but on the other, about stimulating the market precisely with regard to machinery and equipment in order to influence the innovation of these entrepreneurs. This limit of 10,000 was therefore adopted. However, we understand and we also share this reflection that you have shared here, the question of why it is 10,000 and why it is not 3.5 when we are talking about fixed assets. At the same time, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, who are also in the Chamber, can probably say that the Ministry of Finance is working on changing the definition of a fixed asset, and therefore the address of this bill, for the time being, will be in another legislative act, while many of the threads that you have also talked about will be consummated in the proposed changes concerning CIT and PIT taxes. Why is it just about new resources? This was also a topic we were thinking about, we were discussing these new measures. We also looked at the GUS data on who makes the purchases and with these new and unused means is the problem. There's a definition when we make things easier for someone and when we make it easier for them to abuse. It is an experiment that we have proposed here, but it is also to see how this instrument works in real terms, because with these measures used it could be a little bit as if we had allowed the depreciation of investment in real estate or rental, not only in purchasing, but also in renting, which practices are widely known, but connected with meeting widely understood family needs rather than entrepreneurial needs. It is similar with property or joint ownership, which you have raised here. This depreciation was mentioned and the question was why we are making such a change in the situation where in 2016 we have an amendment concerning depreciation and an amount of 50,000. Euros. I think the distinction and the indication are clear here. We are talking about smaller amounts, so we are really addressing small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Why are we shutting down those who don't make a profit? It seems to us that for these entities it is not necessary to accelerate the depreciation of the purchase of fixed assets, that other legal solutions designed by us are important, such as small economic activities, which make contributions to the Social Insurance Institution dependent on the level of income generated. There, indeed, those who do not make profits can count on significant reductions, and this is probably more expected by those who do not make profits than accelerated depreciation. You also asked about the effects of the regulation on local government units. We presented in the impact assessment that, first, when it comes to the state budget at all, we see very clear balancing. These effects are in the first years and are not significant. It's hard to imagine a correction mechanism when real costs aren't big at all. Furthermore, the impact assessment does not take into account the positive effects and therefore the increasing number of jobs that we believe will emerge through this regulation and the increase in revenue and thus higher taxes for those who benefit from this regulation. Those were all the questions you asked. Like I said, we're open, we don't lack courage. The Member asked that question. I think that we are not lacking, which we prove in many design solutions, including those dedicated to entrepreneurs. All I can say is that I am very happy that the first reading of this law takes place today, i.e. on 21 June, the day that last year the Sejm established the National Day of Entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u347	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u348	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the wording of the article. 1 paragraph 3 draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax and the Act on corporate income tax, print No 1602, the collection of flat-rate income tax by Polish entities on revenues obtained in the territory of the Republic of Poland by foreign air navigation companies will not concern revenues generated from scheduled air passenger transport. At the same time, the wording of the justification for the draft law indicates that non-contractual traffic is possible to negotiate prices and there is a direct interaction between the air carrier and the customer - the customer has the possibility to negotiate a contract, collect a tax or enforce a tax residence certificate. Please answer the following questions. Question one: On the basis of what data did the Minister of Development and Finance state that in the area of non-contractual transport, in the context of the negotiations, the price between the air carrier and the customer would be able to collect tax or enforce the residence certificate at the same time? Question two: In view of the principle of equal treatment between taxpayers, is this not an unjustified differentiation between a group of taxable persons and, in fact, the imposition of additional tax obligations on a group of taxable persons simply because these taxable persons purchase passenger tickets for flights - non-transferable flights? Therefore, did the Minister of Finance and Development consider the possibility of fully abolishing the obligation to collect flat-rate income tax by Polish entities in connection with the purchase of air passenger tickets regardless of the type of flights, i.e. both scheduled and non-scheduled flights?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u349	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, contained in print No 1602, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act (Print No 1613). I'm asking Marshal Stanisław Tyszka to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increase in the basic VAT rate to 23%, the increase in VAT on food, the increase in VAT on books, the increase in excise duty on cigarettes, the introduction of garbage tax, the increase in the pension premium, the increase in VAT on clothing, the increase in excise duty on fuel, the inclusion of Belka deposits, the abolition of VAT on the Internet, the increase of VAT on coffee, the increase of VAT on postal services, the taxation of CIT of limited liability companies, the maintenance of alleged temporary increases in VAT, the subsequent increase in excise duties on alcohol and cigarettes, the reduction of VAT on corporate cars, the introduction of CIT on controlled companies, the cancellation of orders, the increase of property tax and finally the reduction of costs for creators - these are the selected tax increases introduced by the Civic Platform government. Exactly 21 raises in eight years. To this day, it is not known what the Civic Platform was doing faster: whether it was a record-breaking debt of Poles, or whether it was faster to pass new taxes. On the other hand, the Law and Justice politicians in the election campaign spoke beautifully about the Platform's raises and promised to withdraw them. That's why today, when PiS has a majority in the Seym, I'm asking what you're going to do about it. Were you only strong in the election campaign? As Kukiz,15 we say "check" and we expect the government to clearly define its tax policy. Does the government intend to continue the tax policy of the Platform by increasing taxes and inventing new taxes? But does the government intend to deliver on the promises from the campaign and start reversing Tusk's raises? The Kukiz15 movement is a free movement, and we are in favour of the widest possible freedom for citizens. For us it is natural that taxes should be reduced. Thus, our cycle: Monday of freedom, in which, among others, we have a lot of freedom. we submit draft laws to reverse further tax increases of Tusk and Platforms. Today I present a draft bill eliminating the limitation in PIT settlement for creative environments. It is a law long awaited by creative environments in Poland, by innovators, inventors, artists. What's with the bill? The aim is to restore the possibility to settle flat-rate 50% of full costs. This possibility was limited by the government of Donald Tusk to the second tax threshold, which in practice results in a 350-percent increase in tax for creators after crossing this threshold. The principle of tax accounting for creators was written in pre-war Poland. These principles were created on the basis of the column of Tadeusz Boy-Żelenski's column entitled: "Fiscal Paradoxes" of 1928. It could be said that these laws survived the commune, but they did not survive the Platform's rule. It was the argument made in Boy-Żeleński's column that convinced pre-war governments of the flat-rate costs for creators. The same column also convinced sleep. Lech Kaczyński, when the Ministry of Finance tried to repeal these provisions in 2006. Law and Justice promised to clean up after the Platform. Today's your chance to show that you didn't lie in the election campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u351	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Biernat will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on personal income tax together with the self amendment of 25 May 2017, print No 1613. In the Parliamentary draft law, the applicant proposes an amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act of 26 July 1991, as amended, Dz. U. z 2016 poz. 2032. The proposal concerns the amendment of the Article. Article 22 (2) (b) Point 9 (1) to (3) and repeal. 9a and 10a. The applicant also proposes that the Act should cover the revenue generated by the creators from 1 January 2017 and apply from 1 January 2018. In the current legal situation - amendment of 24 October 2012 - the PO-PSL coalition introduced from 2013 the provision that in the tax year the total cost of obtaining the revenue referred to in paragraph 1. Paragraph 9 (1) to (3) shall not exceed 1/2 of the amount constituting the upper limit of the first tax scale range referred to in Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The annual limit for accounting for 50% of the flat-rate revenue costs therefore amounts to PLN 42 764. It should be noted that these amounts are calculated against income less the deduction by the payer of social security contributions during the month in question. These powers are now available to a wide group of representatives of 37 different professions, which form a widely defined group of creators. In practice, many people and occupations benefit from the possibility of accounting for 50% of revenue costs, including: Actors, journalists, writers, filmmakers, musicians, painters, sculptors, graphic designers, lecturers, architects, computer scientists, but also consultants, marketers or trainers. In order to benefit from 50% of the cost of obtaining revenue, a work must be created, which according to the Copyright Law and related rights is any expression of creative activity of an individual nature determined in any form. The proposed amendment would abolish reductions in the amount of PLN 42 764 in order to account for 50% of the cost of obtaining revenue in relation to the revenue of the creators, which would improve their financial situation, mainly artists and cultural creators. But should training, marketing or consulting activities also have such forms of taxation? The state's tax policy is created and implemented by the government. It is the government that should determine which activities of the creators should be covered by 50% at the expense of obtaining revenue and what creative activities are important for the Polish state, its development and innovation. There should be arrangements between the Ministry of Finance and Development, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The tax authorities are not authorised to interpret the Copyright Act and therefore to determine whether the person is the creator and whether the controlled work constitutes copyright. At the same time, I would like to point out that the proposed changes would reduce the revenue of the state budget from the PIT tax at more than PLN 100 million, which would reduce the share of PIT for local government units. At the same time, I would like to point out that if the law had been in force since January 2018 for revenue generated in 2018, it would have to be adopted and published by the end of 2017. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I request that the law and justice be rejected in full in the first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on personal income tax, print No 1613.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u353	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will speak to Bożena Szydłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my club's position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, print no. 1613. This is where I wanted to say a little more, but I will limit my speech after what I heard from the marshal, my previous speaker. [[I'm glad.]] The changes proposed by the applicants involve improving the legal situation of entrepreneurs and professionals, in which creativity or innovation play a particular role, i.e. inventors, artists, authors of new technologies. The proposed bill provides for a level playing field in the tax treatment of creators' activities against those engaged in economic activities, aiming, as the applicants claim, at the implementation of the so-called. the principles of tax equality. Although tax equality is not a clear concept, its dimension depends on whether we consider it horizontally or vertically. In addition, applicants consider that the project will contribute to a significant simplification of tax law and the flat-rate cost of revenue will be applied to all revenues from creative activities regardless of income thresholds. This is to be seen in the reduction of the grey zone resulting from the desire to circumvent tax regulations. The proposed bill is intended to have a positive impact on both micro- and medium-sized enterprises and to encourage creative and innovative activities. The bill submitted is in line with European Union law. In view of social expectations, however, we believe that the proposed changes need to be analysed, but they deserve attention. Therefore, my Civic Platform club is in favour of transferring the project to further legislative work. I do not know if we will succeed because the parliamentary majority disagrees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u355	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz team15, Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska. There is no Member. Therefore, in writing from the Modern Club, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party remains the voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, print no. 1613. This proposal provides for an amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act to amend the article. Article 22 (2) (b) Point 9 and the repeal of paragraph 9. 9a and 10a. The amendment removes the limitation that the total cost of obtaining revenue may not exceed half of the amount constituting the upper limit of the first tax scale range. At present this amount amounts to PLN 42 764. The mouth shall also be repealed. 10a allowing for a derogation from the percentage fixing of the cost of obtaining income and the taking of the cost of obtaining income in the amount actually incurred. The bill refers to the determination of flat-rate revenue costs for creators, i.e. artists, writers, actors, journalists, as well as architects, inventors, computer scientists and many other professions. The fact is that in these professions it is quite difficult to determine the cost of obtaining revenue, and it is irregular to obtain revenue. For these reasons, information on the analysis of the current situation is very important, i.e. how many taxpayers implement taxes according to the current law, how many taxpayers, in colloquial terms, do not fall within the amount of PLN 42 764 or what financial consequences the proposed amendment will cause. The main question is: What is the government's position with regard to this project, on this proposal to amend the accounts for creative professions? The proposed amendment will certainly simplify tax law and the flat-rate cost of revenue will apply to all revenues from creative activities regardless of the income thresholds that were applicable. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing the project to work in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u357	Thank you, Member. Elizabeth Zielińska showed up, right? You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation of the creators in Poland is not easy and I think we will all agree with this statement. The cultural sector was very much treated during the transformation of the system, and later in fact it was always in some distant place on the priority list. Law and Justice called for the elimination of this tax, which Donald Tusk imposed in 2013. Last year the Ministry of Culture even talked about this project, but so far the creators have not seen any reaction from the government. With entitlement to a flat-rate term of 50% The costs of obtaining revenue benefit from professions which are very often characterised by high innovation, which are carried out by people who work in a non-standard way. General rules on taxation for these professions often cause that actual taxation concerns income and not the income of the creator. In fact, this determination of the costs of obtaining revenue in lump sum form corresponds precisely to this irregular nature of income, which is also set out in the explanatory memorandum. However, creative activities are not only artists, they are also scientists, inventors. It can therefore be considered that the productivity of the economy will increase in this area, because the more civil freedom, also financial freedom, the more creativity and entrepreneurship in these professions as well. The adoption of the project will therefore foster not only the development of culture, but also science and a number of other sectors in Poland. Here, too, it should be pointed out that these proposed changes in the taxation of creators' income are not really, as is sometimes the case, any advantage of this social group, because it is equal to the tax rules of those engaged in economic activities. The influences for which this type of tax, the revenue to the budget, has been imposed will now become the influence of the creators, so there will be a power supply to the cultural sector for which all clubs in the Sejm are supposedly fighting. The good economic performance of the country we now have and the sealing of the VAT system, to which the government is eager to praise, should fully finance the costs. Really, on a budget scale, it's not that high. Ladies and gentlemen! The project submitted meets the creative environments which, in order to remain independent, should have a stable economic situation. This will enable them to develop better, and we will also be sure that the creators will be fully independent that they will have the right conditions for further creation. We often forget that artistic success in the case of creators does not have to go hand in hand with financial success. Really, the wages are pretty low there. We often look at creators through the prism of show business, we think that these are unknown amounts, and very often we forget that many artists, such as classical musicians in philharmonics and artists in many other cultural institutions, actually get very low wages. The creators should earn decent money, and they should feel that their work is truly appreciated. Our bill was passed positively by a number of different organizations, e.g. by the Polish Filmmakers' Association, but remember that many other organizations fought in 2013 for the maintenance of flat-rate taxation. We ask you to support this project. This is a project advocated for several years by creative environments. Besides, as I have already mentioned, the government has announced this kind of change, so I think that a cross-party consensus should not be a problem in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u359	Thank you, Member. Two parliamentarians signed up for the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome, sir. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Modern Club will always be in favour of simplifying and reducing taxes, and we can see that this project is going in the right direction. I have a question, though. Is it not good, because there have been concerns raised here by the government regarding the catalogue of professions and creators to be released or to include this convenience, to clarify in parallel with this project the catalogue of creators, which would clearly indicate that they really deserve this convenience? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u361	Thank you. And Mr Blaze Pard.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's a great idea. Congratulations on the solution. I will personally support them. Here, too, was the speech of a Member from Law and Justice. If the resorts have done nothing in this case for two years, what is the argument today that they should talk to each other? Where are the phone records? Was that just an argument to just say something to yourself today? Like the next one, the fact that you were worried that you wouldn't be able to make it by the end of the year. It's June, and if necessary, with your knee, you can push the encyclopedia through in two days. So, if we want to respect each other in the discussion, at least let's not use such nonsense arguments. Basic question: Will this law help Polish creators, e.g. developers who create new technologies that push the world and our country forward? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u363	Thank you. In that case, a representative of the applicants, Mr. Marshal Tyszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder how we can react to this psychic speech by a representative of Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the project you promised in your election campaign. This is the kind of project you went with, encouraging people, among others. The creators to vote for you. At this point, the motion to reject this at first reading is extreme impudence, and so is your voters. I therefore call on you to rethink the matter by tomorrow and withdraw this proposal. Take note, please, of the 1928 Boy-Żeleński column, of the debate that took place in 2006, when there were plans in your Ministry of Finance to liquidate this, and with the argument of the dead. Lech Kaczyński for maintaining this solution and rethink the matter. Thank you, Mr. Meysztowicz, for the question. Mr President, we would very much like to take a look at this catalogue in the committee if the project is being examined. The history of government work is that last year there was an idea with a narrow category of creators, while he also fell, supposedly because of the opposition of Minister Morawiecki, but maybe we could learn something from a representative of the Ministry. So if, right, we see in it... Our project in some way restores the status quo ante, restores the situation before 1 January 2013, but if there are compelling arguments that these regulations may be abused somewhere, we are open to further discussion. As for Mr Blaze Parda's question, it is obvious that this is a project for creators very important. As Mrs Zielińska presented the situation of the creators very nicely, it is enough to talk to them to find out how their situation has changed since 1 January 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, we have such a situation at the moment that people, often prominent creators, register their activities abroad because they have more favourable tax rules there. Mr Law and Justice was kind enough to say something about the government having to work out a policy, isn't it, that this is a matter of resort arrangements? I would like to remind you that it is so that we are representatives of the nation, according to the Constitution Members, parties, groups go with a certain election programme and then have a duty to implement this programme. You promised to withdraw taxes, but what you've been doing for 1.5 years is a full continuation of the Civic Platform policy - new taxes and an increase in current taxes. You're no different from the Civic Platform. We've given you a chance here to do one of your demands, and you're rejecting it. It's absolutely incomprehensible to me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u365	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u366	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present a position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, print no. 1613. With the requested submission, Members seek to remove the limit of PLN 42 764 for the application of 50% flat-rate costs of earning revenue by the creators. There is no doubt that the determination of the cost of obtaining revenue in the case of the creative process is significantly impeded. It is not possible to objective and value the expenditures of work - years of acquiring knowledge and relevant skills - in relation to a particular product of artistic or creative activity. This is why this problem has already been recognised in the pre-war period and it has been introduced for the creators that the cost of obtaining revenue in the form of a lump sum. Unfortunately, the legislator introduced a 50% limitation in 2012 flat-rate revenue costs by setting an annual limit of PLN 42 764 per year. The proposed amendment restores legal status before 2013. Unfortunately, the proposed amendments also contain an important drawback of not taking into account the reduction in the income of local government units. It should be noted that a significant part of the income tax on individuals constitutes respectively the income of municipalities, powiats and voivodships. The increase in income tax revenues from individuals has been introduced into local government units as newer and newer own tasks, the source of which would be this tax. Therefore, particular consideration should be given to the proposals to reduce income tax revenues, and this is undoubtedly the result of the proposed changes, without adequate financial compensation for local government units. However, the proposed bill does not provide for such solutions. However, I hope that the appropriate changes will be proposed in committee work. In view of the above, the Posel Club The modern recommendation is to refer the bill to further work in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u367	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 21 June. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? Nobody gets... You are reporting to the Member. You're welcome. In view of the above, I consider the list of persons made to the statements to be closed. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj will be the first to make a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u368	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Paulo Coelho once wrote that a child can teach three things to adults: to enjoy for no reason, to be busy all the time and to demand with all the strength what one wants. On Saturday 11 June 2017, the pupils of non-public nursing institutions in Małachów in the Ostrowiec district were very happy, but they had a very specific reason for this joy. On that day, the new, beautiful and functional playground was officially opened by the Chicago Children's Home Foundation. The funds for its construction were collected among the American Polonia during the 4th White Tulipan Ball, which has been taking place cyclically for several years in January. This year's prom took part, among others. Piotr Janicki, consul general of the Republic of Poland in Chicago, Andrzej and Mariola Golotów, and many of our compatriots living in the United States. Thanks to their commitment, they managed to raise more than 17 thousand. The dollars and money were used to build this playground. The facility in Małachów is the fourth in our country, in which the children's playground was built, and the founder of which is the Children's Home Foundation. This foundation was founded at the end of 2011 in Chicago, USA. Its main goal, but not the only goal, is to build playgrounds near care and education facilities. In addition, the foundation provides Christmas gifts for children to Poland. In December 2016, a lot of parcels worth nearly $1,300 were sent to Malachowa. Previously, such help was given to children from the centers in Police, Wałbrzych and Ostrołęka. The official dedication of the playground was attended by the President of the Board of Directors, Ms Aneta Szulakiewicz and Ms Anna Wozniak, representing the Children's Home Foundation. They could see with their own eyes the great joy that our countrymen from the United States enjoyed for their children. It is worth saying here that there would not be this playground if it were not for the huge involvement of the then director of the care and education facility Mr Krzysztof Wojtachnio, who is currently running the district help centre of the family, and if it were not for the very big support of the District Old Town in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. Local TV from Ostrowce also provided invaluable help. The greatest thanks, however, are due to our compatriots in the United States and the Children's Home Foundation. In the thanks that the children of Malachowa sent to them, we read that man is worth as much as he is worth There are some things he's taking care of. The activities of the Children's Home Foundation are of great importance and value, because it creates a joyful smile on the faces of often experienced children. For this activity as a member of the Parliament's Communications Commission with Poles abroad, I would like to express my highest appreciation and gratitude. And finally, one more quote, this time with Julian Ejsmond, who said, "If the smile of the child were missing in the great world, it would be dark and darker, darker and darker than during the night of the unstellar and moonless - despite all the suns, stars and artificial spotlights." This one little smile brings life to life. And that's the smile they made. Poles from the United States, funding this playground. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u369	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Goncier. There isn't. Mr Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2 days, 23 June, 60 years after the priestly ordination, and 2 days later 40 years after the appointment of Bishop of the Diocese of Opole, Fr. doc. dr. hab. Alfonso Nossola. This makes me want to draw attention to this outstanding figure of the universal Church, Polish and our Opole in a few sentences. Born in 1932 in Brożec in Opole in a working family as one of the eight children of Jadwiga and Alfonso graduated in the theological studies at the Higher Seminary in Nysa and Opole. He then continued his specialized studies at KUL, where he was awarded a doctor's degree, and in 1976 he defended his habilitation work. He was a lecturer in dogmatic theology at the Higher Seminary of Silesia Opole in Nysa and Opole. On 25 June 1977 he was appointed Bishop of Opole. On August 17, this year, the bishop accepted the ordination from the Primate Fr. Card. Stefan Wyszynski, accompanied by Fr. Archbishop Henryk Gulbinowicz, Metropolitan Wrocławski, and Fr. Bishop Antoni Adamiuk, auxiliary bishop of Opole. For the bishop's motto he chose the slogan: Veritatem facere in caritate. From the beginning of his bishoply ministry, he had a great influence on the diocese entrusted to him. As a natural Silesian, he knew this environment as few people. He saw the importance of the intellectual development of the inhabitants of the earth and has sought to create adequate training opportunities from the beginning of his ministry. He knew from experience that the best way to do this was to create the opportunity to study as closely as possible, and so on his initiative in Opole was created in 1977. The Diocesan Theological and Pastoral Institute is a subsidiary of the Theological Department of the Catholic University of Lublin. He was very involved in the establishment of a university in Opole. These efforts were successful and in 1994 the University of Opole was established as the 12th University in the country. The University of Opole was the first university in Poland after the Second World War, which in its structure formed the theological department, apart from KUL of course. The Uprising of the University in Opole significantly facilitated young people from Silesia Opole to gain university education. It was the greatest joy of our bishop. With no less joy he accepted the Uprising in Opole of the Polytechnics, which took place in 1996, which made Opole a fully academic city, one of the few cities in Poland boasting university and polytechnics. The expansion of the opportunities for education and building an academic environment in Opole resulted in an increase in the number of students studying Silesian youth, which was the greatest joy and goal of the Archbishop. He also appreciated the role of the media, which is why in 1984 he founded the Diocesan Radio Góra St. Anna, it's Dox Radio. In 1983, he visited St. Anna Pope John Paul II during his second pilgrimage to Poland. In addition to these achievements, Fr. Archbishop Alfons Nossol was active in many areas. He was strongly involved in the uprising of the Catholic Intelligence Club in Opole, which could always count on his support and care. His involvement in humanitarian aid during and after the martial law is known throughout Poland. Known for his activities in supporting Opole and not only Opole hospitals, in terms of highly specialised medical equipment. He was a very active member of the Polish Episcopate, but he also acted very actively in the universal Church, which was appreciated by the Archbishop's title in November 1999. The Opole diocese, of which he was the chief minister, is not an archdiocese, and the title of Archbishop was given to him ad personam. He is a winner of many awards and awards. He was awarded the Great Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland and the Commander's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland, and also became a doctor of honoris causa of many Polish and European universities. After 32 years of service, he retired and moved to the Silesian Stone, where he was born. Jack, in the vicinity of the castle, which his efforts were beautifully renovated. I thank God that I was allowed to meet the Archbishop on my way. I appreciate the fact that I had the opportunity to work with him. God bless you, Your Excellency, for the next days of your action! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u371	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Abramovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A year ago, the Sejm adopted the day of 21 June on the entrepreneur's day. On this occasion I wanted to thank all Poles, who are doing business, for their hard work, work, which gives great satisfaction, but also brings with it the stress associated with risks, unfortunately also the risks associated with confusing and ambiguous economic law, which is valid in Poland. The Polish government changes this law, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced many changes in this area. In November Ub. r. we have adopted a legal certainty clause. This is a milestone in removing these risks related to business activity. From now on, tax law cannot be interpreted backwards; therefore, charges and penalties cannot be required backwards; they can only be changed and interpreted forwards. I will also present announcements for those entrepreneurs who are micro-entrepreneurs who conduct business activity on a one-man basis. They, too, must be given great respect. They're the ones who wake up at hours in the morning. 3, 4, go to their workshops and often finish work at hours. 22 or 23. For them, Prime Minister Morawiecki has also provided for many good changes: the act on ZUS for small business, which abolishes lump sums for those who are unable to pay it, because their revenues do not allow for the payment of a 1200-gold premium; the act on activity to trial - those who want to start business - will not have to pay social security contributions for six months. Finally, those who want to earn their salary or lead a completely micro-activity, so with turnovers of up to 1000 PLN, are to be exempt from registration at all. All these changes Poles are looking forward to. We're hoping they'll be introduced soon. So on this day I once again pay my respects to all entrepreneurs and bow to them for their hard, risky, but so necessary work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u373	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska. There isn't. Then I'll have Catherine Chechara, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to share with you information about one of the most important events in Nysa in the Opole voivodship, namely the one held on 16 and 18 June this year. 5th National Meeting of Large Families. The official opening of this reunion took place on 17 June at the Nysa Cultural House on Saturday. Over 300 families from all over Poland attended this ceremony. In total, there were over 1,100 people, including about 800 children. In the evening there was also a march for life and family from the Basilica of Nysa to the stadium, where a series of concerts was prepared. The most important guests of the day were Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs Jolanta Krupska, President of the Association of Large Families, who emphasized that the success of the union and government policy are not only amenities for many children's families, but also a general change of the mentality of Poles. The President thanked Minister Elżbieta Rafalska for her pro-family activities, giving her a statuette from large families. The Minister spoke about the effects of the 500+ programme and the Large Family Charter, which has already benefited almost 2 million Poles. She also announced that families who had already raised at least three children would be included in the card. This card will soon be available in electronic form. On the other hand, parents appreciated the current family policies of the government in our country. On Sunday in the Basilica of Nysa there was a Mass of St. in the intention of participants of the meeting of large families, in which Bishop Andrzej Czaja took part. Liturgy had a very festive character, and the children carried gifts to the altar. The highlander band of the Jarzębków family from Podhale also sang. Free accommodation, catering and a rich cultural and entertainment program were prepared for this event. The programme was very diverse and adapted to the different age groups. Any participant could have found something for himself in it. The purpose of the large family reunion was and is to integrate these families, as well as to support family policy activities and create a positive picture of a large family. Polish families, especially the big ones, are a great value for our nation. That is why we must support family-friendly policies, support multi-child families, because this is crucial for the development and functioning of our country. I would like to thank everyone for organizing the fifth reunion of families of many children and all families of many children for their presence. The most important thing in life is family - first the one you were born in, then the one you created. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u375	Thank you, Member. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today in Warsaw Torvalry was inaugurated an extremely important program for Polish sport, a program called "Team 100." Details of the programme were presented today by Mr Witold Bianka, Minister of Sport, in the presence of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The program consists of the support of 100 young, talented Polish athletes at the age of 18 and 23 scholarships of up to 40 thousand. zł. The funds come from the project of the Polish National Foundation, it is a pilot program, as announced by the Ministry of Sport it will further develop. What's important is that all the athletes who are qualified for the project will sign the code of ethics. The main partner of the project is the Sport Institute, which deals with the qualification of athletes for this programme, control of expenditure and monitoring of achievements. The program is so important that the age of a junior and a youth is very difficult. At this age, Polish sport loses a lot of talent because they are unable to sustain themselves, while also practicing sports. It is the first such - very good - symptom of the support of sport by the foundation, which has funds from companies of the State Treasury. As you can see, these funds derived from the earned profits of the Treasury companies can also be used for such a noble purpose in such a very good way. In this context, unfortunately, there are also very negative experiences, which I see in my constituency at the level of local governments, whether municipal or district level. There are many such places in Opole, where there are no developed sports support systems, where people are even prevented from practicing professional sport, because it is worth noting that there are also talented athletes from Opole, among others, in the program. Wrestler of the Eagle Namysłów club, our Olympic hope, and many other talented players, while at the municipal level, for example, is created. completely unnecessary companies are being pumped into them so that they can pay their CEOs and directors extraordinary wages, which are basically nothing but good for some. So, on this occasion, I would like to express my deep hope that some local authorities will see that public funds can also be used to support sport, to devote to such an objective as the support of young, forward-looking players who are not lacking in my district in Opole, and I wish that this would be a good example that will go downstairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u377	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The last few months of the rule of law and justice are a festival of unfavorable, indecent, dishonest or even hostile statements by European Union politicians towards Poland, statements which contradict the idea of the community, where one of the main principles should be that of respect for other countries of the Union, their subjectivity and right to their own opinion. In order to use examples, the record holder is probably my favorite, former President of the European Parliament Martin Schulz, who was so frisky that he accused Poland with epithets that he was notorious: and the fact that Law and Justice apply democracy in Putin's style, and that what is happening in Poland is dramatic and has the nature of a coup d'état. He blackmailed the loss of EU funds, what was done in Turkey, he put us in line with the rule of law. It was only lacking that Poland, as in the famous cabaret sketch, judged worse than the Islamic State. As he calmed down, the baton was taken over by Vice-President Frans Timmermans of the European Commission. The subject of his interest and the subject of his speech, of course, was, of course, the functioning of the Constitutional Court, the judiciary, the media, as if anybody had real harm. He was the one who called for a monitoring procedure against Poland, threatened other options, called on the Member States of the European Union to take a common front against Poland. In his plans, he considered the escalation of the conflict with our country so much that he indicated that he would consider taking away Poland's voting rights within the European Union. His boss Jean-Claude Juncker recently became active, who, according to the same song, threatens Poland and Hungary with legal consequences for refusing to accept refugees. Other examples: the head of the CDU/CSU club in the German Bundestag Volker Kauder was in favour of sanctions against Poland if the country continues to disregard the rules of law. The president of the CDU/CSU Group in the European Parliament, Herbert Reul, proposed financial penalties and economic sanctions against Poland. The head of Luxembourg's diplomacy, holding the Presidency of the European Union, Jean Asselborn, argued that the development of the situation in Warsaw was similar to those of dictatorial regimes and that the European Union has a right not only but also an obligation to mix in order to stop this trend. Finally, Günther Oettinger, the next German Commissioner for the digital economy and society, criticized the actions of the Polish Parliament and advocated taking over Poland's supervision by the European Commission. Reason? Among other things, changes in the media. Examples could be multiplied. As you can see, the European Union's anti-Polish politician has many names. Unfortunately, it also has the name of the Polish head of the European Council of Donald Tusk, but what this politician has allowed himself to do has recently exceeded all limits. Recently, the Prime Minister of the Polish government Beata Szydło, while in Oświęcim, said the following words: Auschwitz is a lesson that everything must be done to protect its citizens. Riposta Tuska was astonishing: such words in such a place should never come from the Polish Prime Minister's lips. Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, described Tusk's words as irresponsible and shocking. In January 2016, President Andrzej Duda himself delivered very similar words in the same place: for me as President of the Republic of Poland, but also for the State of Israel since the beginning of its existence Auschwitz is a great lesson that everything must be done to protect the safety and life of its citizens. It's the most important duty for the authorities. After these words Prof. Szewach Weiss, former ambassador of Israel in Poland, said: This is the most important sentence of this speech. I do not remember such a sentence from the mouth of the Polish leader. What is very important, with the criticism of the statements by Beata Szydło - notabene immediately picked up by the head of PO Grzegorz Schetyn, the whole party and the favorable media who tried to impose a negative narrative on this issue also in the Western media - absolutely do not agree with the Jewish environment. Inappropriate speech Prime Minister Szydło does not see Jonny Daniels, President Trump's advisor, President and Founder of the Foundation Auschwitz-Birkenau. Paweł Jędrzejowski from the Polish Jewish Forum described the premier's criticism as a catchphrase based on the conscious misrepresentation of the meaning of her speech. In his opinion, the blinding of hatred deprives people of their decency. Mr Donald Tusk, former Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, we know that you are looking for your support outside Poland, but do not be blinded by hatred and keep a little decency towards your country and the government representing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u379	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u380	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This June marks the 60th anniversary of the death of Władysław Aleksander Górski - a prominent citizen of the Archivist land, a participant of the Polish-Bolshevik war, a long-standing wojna of the municipality of Ulan, finally a Member of the Sejm V, dramatically interrupted by the outbreak of war and term. The social and political activities of Władysław Aleksandra Górski gained some recognition of enemies of independent Poland. The occupied German authorities imprisoned him in the Gestapo headquarters in Radzyń Podlaski, in the Lublin Castle, in concentration camps in Majdanek and in Flossenbürg. The authorities of the Polish People's Republic repressed him as so-called. Class enemy. Władysław Aleksander Górski has always been faithful to his homeland. His unbreakable will to work for society is witnessed, among others. The fact that, being deprived of other possibilities of action, manually reproduced with great conformity with the original the census of inhabitants of the Ulan parish of 1789. This document was his work restored to our memory and is an extremely valuable material for research on demographic and structural changes that occurred in these lands. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Mr Władysław Górski was a participant and witnessed the last meeting of the Second Sejm of the Republic on 2 September 1939. The meeting was held in a limited composition of war activities. It was aimed at, among other things. the introduction of changes in the electoral ordination allowing the Member's mandate to be combined with the active military service. During this meeting, after the completion of the agenda, Marshal Wacław Makowski gave a speech - the last one in the Second Sejm of the Republic. He said then, among others.From the time our ancestors established their home on this earth with the arrangement of Providence, a marriage was bound between the earth and the nation. The land belongs to the nation, and the nation belongs to the land. All this together: our blood, our earth, our history - created a victory for the Polish spirit. Władysław Aleksander Górski, resident of the village of Sętki in the municipality of Ulan, citizen of the Republic of Poland, was faithful to this truth, and we should honor and respect this truth and memory of the Member. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u381	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u382	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Volunteer Fire Department in Brzezinka, Gliwice was established at the founding meeting on 29 October 2012. In June 2013, training began, and the Iveco Magirus fire car was handed over by the City Police Command. After 4 years after the founding meeting on 1 December 2016, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/1499 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the The CSR in Gliwice-Birkenau has been incorporated into the structure of the national rescue and fire protection system. This is a huge distinction for the whole individual, but also another commitment. As an entity operating in the national fire escape and fire protection system, the Brzezinka Fire Department may also participate in rescue and fire fighting activities outside the city of Gliwice, in the Gliwice district and beyond its borders. The unit must also participate in additional combat exercises. The CSR unit has increased the security of the Birkenau estate. Firefighters volunteer to perform a number of tasks, including: They are called for fires, car accidents, submersibles, the removal of trees damaged by storms or the removal of liquid and petroleum stains. In 2016 alone, the Council adopted In total, Brzezinka's TSO participated in 59 rescue and fire-fighting operations. In addition, firefighters participated in securing mass events as well as in demonstrations for children and young people in schools and kindergartens. The inhabitants of Birkenau appreciate the CSR unit established on their estate. Within the framework of the civil budget, thanks to their voices, Brzezinka has been equipped with portable hangar, fire car equipment or hydraulic tools. The existence of a volunteer fire brigade in Birkenau has other benefits. The unit activates local youth who are very keen to engage in the operation of the TSOs. Firefighters with TSOs have fire equipment, but it would be worthless if they didn't train the next generation of firefighters. Firefighters, taking a number of actions, e.g. organizing the Firefighter's Sports Festival for Children, shows or watching the matches of the Polish team together, make their unit the center of Brzezinka's cultural life. Special thanks are due to President Tomasz Włoczyk, who has actively contributed to the establishment and development of the CSR unit in Brzezinka. The Firefighter's Day celebrations, which took place on 7 May, accompanied the Holy Mass in the parish of St. Jadwiga and the dedication of a new combat car, in which I helped to deliver to the Volunteer Fire Service in Birkenau. I wish to wish all firefighters once again, especially those from Gliwice-Birkenau, to leave for action as rarely as possible, but to return home safe and sound. There is a reason why firefighters enjoy the greatest social respect they deserve. You can always count on them, they're always there when you need them, no matter what the circumstances. Often by risking their lives, they help us, save our lives, or save our entire accomplishments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u383	Please, Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u384	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For 2, 3 years, the whole of Europe, all the media have been repeating how I mantra the word "refugee." Repeating this word in all kinds and circumstances is to encode in our consciousness the fact that we need to help people hurt by war, fleeing from cruelty, deprived of their possessions. Using the word "refugee" to all visitors is a great abuse. The true refugees are a small percentage in this great emigration, which is a labour emigration, an emigration of war, causing a great problem. Europe has a great problem with migrants who flow wide on a small wave of refugees. The emotional blackmail that the opposition is exerting on our government, supporting the statements of the bishops and doctrines of the Christian faith, is unacceptable. The statements of politicians of the Civic and Modern Platform in this form sound incredible. They use Christian dogmas in a selective way, forgetting that in their cases they strongly criticize the Church for its struggle against abortion and euthanasia. I talk a lot to the voters about this and the vast majority support the government policy of Mrs Beata Szydło, our Prime Minister. Most also support the forms of aid to refugees, I repeat, refugees that our government is proposing. It is the responsibility of every Polish government to ensure the safety of our citizens. Unfortunately, lately, in the bombings, they have begun to die and our citizens have been harmed. Let us remember not to make the mistake our children and grandchildren will suffer. An example of the political correctness of Germany, France, Belgium, Sweden and other Western European countries is certainly not worthy of imitation. This policy turned out to be a failure. They even claim that they are interested in it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u385	Thank you. Mrs Anna April. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u386	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me say a few sentences about the Bands and Singing Teams Festival in Stara Błotnica near Radom. The commune's wójt Stara Błotnica Mr.Marcin Kozdach once again organized a fantastic festival with his coworkers and residents, thanks to which often forgotten folk songs and songs resonated on Radom soil. This event always has great interest in both performers and invited guests. Beautiful music and colorful regional outfits enjoy the senses and bring back memories of old times. This year more than 20 bands and singing bands from all over Radom's land took part in the festival, among others. Teams from Radom, Lesiów, Ostrołęki, Marianowic, Domaniowa, Guzowa, Czarolasu, Dzielna, Opoczna, Zwolenia, Wawrzyszów, Mysiedla, Mirowa, Marianów and of course from Stara Błotnica. The bands presented folk music and costumes characteristic for their region. Performers are mostly older people who have been pursuing their passions for many years and make sure that both music and folk songs are passed on to young generations. The Festival of Singing bands and bands was preceded by Holy Mass. at the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Comfort. Then the participants marched on the square with a colorful corrode, next to the municipal office, where the performances began. It is very important to maintain the tradition of the region through music. This is a huge part of our culture. Each region has its own distinctive songs, which, of course, despite similarities are unique and unique. With folk music, not only the body, but also the soul struggles to dance, because each of us has a longing for simplicity, beauty, which brings a simple life in the country and a beautiful rural culture. I am very pleased that in my region, thanks to the involvement of local authorities, thanks to the involvement of your uncle, such events can take place on a regular basis and are of great interest. From this point of view, I would like to thank you very much, both to your uncle and to the entire municipality, and to all those who have committed themselves as every year to organizing this excellent festival. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-21-sejm-44-2.u387	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 22 June 2017, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 50]]
