ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u1	I open the thirty-nineth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent. On 31 March 2017, Erwin Kruk, Senator of the First term, Vice-President of the Committee on Immigration and Poles Abroad, died, member of the Committee on Culture, Media, Science and National Education. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the senator's memory. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that the Sejm at its thirty-nineth meeting on 7 April 2017 adopted all the amendments of the Senate: to the Act on the National Celebrations of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Recovering of Independence of the Republic of Poland; to the Act on the Amendment of the Law of Administrative Procedure and some other laws; to the Act on the Amendment of the Act on Excise Tax; to the Act on the amendment of certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims; to the Act on the amendment of the Act on Environmental Protection. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-fifth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-sixth and thirty-seventh Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that point 2 and point 4 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Law amending the Law on Consular Law and considering it as second point; the Law amending the Law on Repatriation and certain other laws. and consider it as a third point; law amending the pharmaceutical law and consider it as point four; the Act amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other Acts and consider it as point 10, after the amendment of the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons; second reading of the draft Act on the amendment of the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism and another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices and consider it as the eleventh point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to change the order of consideration of the point: second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and consider this point as the fifth point, after the added point concerning the Law amending the Law on Pharmaceutical Law. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-nineth meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. The vote on the first point, concerning the second reading of the draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Gymnastic Society The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'll inform you that at 12:00, which means in 17 minutes, an hour's break will be ordered... No, it was supposed to be a little longer... [[Voice from the room: until 13.20.]] It's not written right here. At 12.00 a break will be ordered until 13.20, during which there will be ceremonial awards and the opening of the exhibition on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Gymnastic Association of the Falcon. The fifth item on the agenda concerning the second reading of the bill amending the Social Insurance Fund's pension law will be considered today. Tomorrow we will begin the proceedings at 9.00 a.m. after the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Gymnastic Association I would very much like to welcome the representatives of the Gymnastic Society of the Falcon to the meeting. I would like to welcome you all very warmly. [[Applause]] I very warmly welcome the chaplain, priest Marcin Kostka, and the president of the Gymnastic Society of Bydgoszcz-Fordon II, Mr Andrzej Bogucki. I warmly welcome you: President of the Polish Gymnastics Society, the Falcon of the World of Work in Tarnów, Mr Andrzej Olejnik; President of the Gymnastic Society, the Falcon in Warsaw, Mr Zbigniew Okorski; President of the Gymnastics Society in Brwinów, Mr John Member; President of the Gymnastic Society, the Falcon in Sanok, Mr Bronisław Kielar; President of the Gymnastic Society in Leszno, Mr Damian Małecki; Secretary of the Gymnastic Society in Leszno, Mrs Halina Cichocka-Nowak; President of the Gymnastic Society, Mr Stanisław Mardula, Vice President of the Gymnastic Society, Mr Adam Zaleski. Welcome also: Grzegorz Bielc, Artur Blum, Andrzej Nowakowski, Józef Zaskalski, Michał Sienkiewicz, Zygmunt Śledziewski and his daughter Alice Śledziewska, Witold Zurzicki, Piotr Mazur. I would like to welcome you all very warmly. [[Applause]] The bill under consideration was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn and is included in print No 462, and the committee's report In print No 462 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Legislative Commission met on 5 April this year. and considered at first reading the draft resolution presented on the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Gymnastic Society During the meeting, numerous amendments were made, both by my own amendments, i.e. autocorrections, as well as by the amendments tabled by the senators. Senator Mark Pęk as well as Senator Zdrojewska. The vast majority of these amendments were adopted unanimously. One amendment Senator Zdrojewska, who was supported by Senator Borowski on the penultimate paragraph of the resolution, was not adopted. In its entirety, the draft was adopted by the members of the Legislative Commission by a large majority. I will read, if you will, the content of this resolution. It sounds like this. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Gymnastic Society 150 years ago in Lviv the Gymnastic Society was registered, the main goal of which was to educate Polish youth according to the slogan The organization, which was founded three years after the fall of the January Uprising, was to sustain the patriotic spirit in a young generation, while at the same time becoming part of the trend of the positivistic era and Galician autonomy. The Society built falcon rooms, gymnasiums, choirs, theatres and libraries. The Society began to grow very quickly and its nests were formed in other partitions, as well as among emigrations: in the United States, France, Germany, Canada and the United Kingdom. Sokolym owes us, among others. the first soccer match in Polish lands, played in 1894, as well as the celebration of the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Grunwald, organized in Krakow in connection with the unveiling of the Grunwald Memorial, thanks to the sacrifice and involvement of Ignacy J. Paderewski. A few years later, members of individual falcon nests supplied Polish armed forces, among others. Polish legions fighting on the side and Russian and Austrian-German. They were especially famous for Krakow's falcons from the bravado charge on 13 June 1915 under the Rokytne, led by the rott master Zbigniew Dunin-Wąsowicz. Most falcons, mainly from nests existing on emigration, responded positively to the appeal of the Polish National Committee and strengthened the Blue Army, fighting for the winners in World War I. General Józef Haller was a long-time instructor in TG. The Falcon also fought with weapons in his hand, among others. during subsequent uprisings: Wielkopolska, three Silesia, during Lviv's defense and the Volunteer Army in 1920 (Wojciech Korfanty was one of the most valued falcon activists). In the Second Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Togo, under the leadership of Count Adam Zamoyski, there was a positive sign in the history of building the homeland after 123 years of captivity, as well as the Boy Scouts, whose activists mostly originated from the nests of falconies. The spirit of sport and love for Poland did not fade away, as example were the pre-war successes of the Olympians derived from the Falcon, among others. Gold medalist Stanisława Walasiewicz and Jadwiga Wajsówny (silver and bronze), and war victims of members of the Society, mainly murdered by Germans, among others. Insurgents of Greater Poland. The list of names is very long (at the time of Operation Franciszek Kręcki, Jakub Sulecki, Mieczysław Opatrny, Stanisław Kunz. Unfortunately, so far, a complete list of personal losses has not been drawn up in 1939 and 1945. After the war, the Communists eventually posted the Society in 1947, but it survived in exile. In the Polish People's Republic, unsuccessful attempts to legalise it were made several times (in 1957 and 1980). It was not until the end of the 1980s that Poland was reborn. Today it has more than 70 nests in the country and operating outside the borders. Only this year On the occasion of the next round anniversary The Society can celebrate its birth in free and independent Poland. The Fiftyth Anniversary of the Uprising was celebrated in the trenches of World War I, and the century was during a period of forced silence about the organization. The Senate of the Republic joins these celebrations, wishing Polish falconism that young people would come to the nests of falconies and find the meaning of their activity and work for Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. On behalf of everyone who signed here and voted in favour of this resolution, I ask the High Senate to accept it. I ask for this so that we can honor this wonderful Polish organization, which has very beautifully entered into the history of Poland, our homeland, and today also forms part of the process of education of young people. In the spirit of patriotism and in the spirit of service to our national community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the rapporteur, who is also the applicant. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] [[Thank you.]] No? Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[Kazimierz Wind.]] Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! As chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, I must say that this resolution is very close to me, because the Gymnastic Society of the Falcon deals with education and education and training and sport. First of all, it should be said on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the founding of this society that it was an extremely modern organization for those times. We know that today there are many different sports promotions, but these were completely different times. In 1867 an organization was established which, on the one hand, promoted sport, but on the other hand raised and was also the binder that organized society, in particular young people. It was an organization that laid the foundation for the development of Boy Scouts and Sports Clubs. I thought Professor Żaryn would tell us more about the story, which is why I didn't prepare this passage, but it will be mentioned in the exhibition. [[Voice from the room: It will be.]] I feel obliged to mention the family message that my father entrusted to me by telling me about this great gathering of falcons in 1910 to unveil the Grunwald Memorial in Cracow, when the members of the Association sneaked across borders from various partitions, often hiding their uniforms. The second issue is a huge contribution, huge merits of the Falcon when it comes to the emergence of Boy Scouts. I'm kind of sorry that this passage, these two lines of Boy Scouting text from the draft resolution came up. I'm not gonna supplement this so that we don't have to make things more procedurally difficult, but there could be a big paragraph about it. It must be said that the merits of the Falcon in this area were very high. Eugeniusz Piasecki, founder of the Sokola in Lviv, published, second after Małkowski, a very important textbook on Boy Scouting. He introduced numerous deadlines, among others. Boy scout, etc. We know that there are scouts in the world, and there are scouts in Poland. It was the founder of the Sokola in Lviv, Prof. Piasecki, the scout, the deputy, who edited the Scout. The second figure, which very closely connects these two organizations, is Dr. Kazimierz Wyrzykowski, who was an important leader, the chief of the "Sokola" and at the same time the main organizer of the great celebrations of the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Grunwald, celebrations in Krakow. In addition, he was involved in all these most important scouting activities not only in Lviv, but also in other places, he participated in the Association Scouting Division. So these relationships were very strong and probably this rapid development of scouting that took place would not have been possible if it had not been for the material and organizational foundations of the Falcon. Also, attention needs to be paid This is mentioned in the resolution For the participation of the organization of the Greater Poland, in the Silesian uprisings, in Haller's army. These are extremely important things. I must also say, as Senator of Tarnów Land, that... The first was the "Sokół" in Lviv, and the second group concerned Tarnów and Stanisławów. Of course, great, great joy... Only in the third group were Kraków, Kołomyja, Ternopil and Przemyśl. These are extremely important things. I think a huge thank you should be given to Professor Żarin, but also to the City Public Library in Leszno, which helped prepare the resolution. I'm so glad we remember these things. This isn't just about the past. Raising young people, their education and their physical development is our future. I'm very happy and congratulate you on your wonderful anniversary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska and a group of 25 senators. I'm not gonna read it because I can't read all the names. The discussion is closed. I would like to remind you that the second reading concludes by referring the draft to the committee in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. I state that the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Żaryn will file a motion to continue in this session... [[Yeah, that's what I'm calling it.]] Yes? There you go. Senator Jan Żaryn has just submitted a request to set a deadline for the committee to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear a voice of objection, I think the Senate has accepted the proposal, the proposal. I don't see why not. In that case, I am directing this to the committee and I ask the committee to take a decision so that we can vote on the amendment immediately after the end of the break and then vote on the whole. I'm declaring a recess until 1:20 p.m. [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes after the announcement of the break, the committee shall meet.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] One more announcement, ladies and gentlemen. Excuse me, but one more announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, if you submit your requests for a draft resolution on the company... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The meeting of the Legislative Commission will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 13 minutes 23]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u7	One moment, ladies and gentlemen, one moment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. We return to the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Gymnastics Association Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 462 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! The Legislative Board met at its meeting an hour ago. There was an amendment on it. This amendment, tabled by the senators with Mrs Zdrojewska at the head, concerned the deletion of the last paragraph, the seventh paragraph, from the draft resolution. During the short discussion, we considered, in accordance with the rules, that we cannot modify this paragraph, we can only reject or accept the amendment tabled. In the vote, the amendment was rejected by a majority, 8:6 senators. Therefore, please adopt a resolution of unchanged content, the content which I read an hour ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Would the senators of the applicant still like to speak? During the second reading, a legislative proposal was submitted by Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Ryszard Bonisławski, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Piotr Flork, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Maciej Grubski, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Maria Pańczyk-Podzia, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Senator Sławowomir Rybicki, Senator Waldemar Sługocki, Senator Peter Wacha, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Pio Peter Zientski, Senator Alexander Poci, Senator Janów Poci, Senator Senator Senator Senator Senator Jan. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u10	The Gymnastics Society of the Falcon is an organization which in the history of Poland was positively marked. This resolution was to celebrate the establishment of an organization. The Gymnastic Society of the Falcon had different periods: the period until the First War and the 1920s, then the interwar period was a slightly different story. After and after 1990. It's recreated. This resolution should concern the anniversary of the appointment of the Falcon. I am against the introduction of a sentence that says that we call on young people to sign up because I think that we should not indicate any organisation to which young people should sign up. It should be the decision of the young people themselves or of those who want to be members of the organization. That is why I thought that this amendment, Senator rapporteur, which we tabled, would be accepted by the majority. I regret that most did not try to include, among others. My reservations. During different periods, the Falcons were different. I would like to vote in favour of the resolution concerning just the anniversary of the vocation, a beautiful anniversary, and not whether or not young people should be called to the present Sokola or not. Therefore, Mr. Senator, the fact that most did not try to understand the arguments that certainly appeared at the committee's meeting makes me behind this resolution I'm sorry to say this. I can't vote. [[Voices from the hall: Boo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u11	Good. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? And if so, to whom? There are no volunteers. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment presented, print No 462 X, and then on the adoption of the draft, print No 462 S, in full, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment, which has been tabled and discussed, on the amendment in print No 462 X. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We'll get the votes back in a minute. I'm asking for their application. 79 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 49 against. [[Voting No 1]] The amendment was rejected. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 150th anniversary of the creation of the Gymnastic Society Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 4 against, 24 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Gymnastic Society Very cordially to all the guests who have arrived, thank you for your presence. Thank you. I'm calling a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 31 to 13 minutes 33]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. We proceed with the review of the second agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law. Consular law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 477 and the report of the Commission In print No 477 A. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, that after considering this item, the vote will take place. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to submit a report to the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad on the Law on the amendment of the Law on Consular Law adopted by the Sejm on 7 April 2017. Your Senate, yesterday there was a meeting of the committee examining this law, on which the committee unanimously accepted this proposal to the Sejm without amendment. The purpose of the Law on the amendment of the act is to ensure that the Consul issues documents free of charge... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ... certifying the right to use the reduced journeys of the addressees of the Act of 15 December 2016 on the amendment of the Act on the right to reduced journeys by public collective transport and certain other acts which will enter into force tomorrow. Already on April 21, 2017 the law enters into force, under which we granted the right to reduced travels of young people, Polish children who come, also for language learning or other educational purposes, to their homeland. In December 2016, this law extended the scope of the public collective transport allowance by 2 groups of people: children and young people, no later than the end of the eighteenth year of age, when learning Polish, history, geography, Polish culture or other subjects taught in Polish, as well as teachers teaching Polish or other subjects in Polish in social schools run by Polish educational organizations, parents' associations and Polish parishes registered at the Centre for the Development of Polish Education abroad, Polish sections operating in schools operating in other countries' educational systems, as well as European schools operating under the Convention on the Statute of European Schools. As a result of these changes in December, these groups will benefit from public collective transport relief in the same amount as for the relevant age and professional groups in Poland. To issue documents confirming the entitlement to use the reduced journeys I mentioned and to extend the validity of these documents has the consul of the Republic of Poland competent due to the seat of the school. This bill we're bringing in today is about to enter into force tomorrow, and so... She was adopted by the committee unanimously, because she is a law, you can say, compatible with this law of December. And I ask you very much on behalf of the whole committee, which, once again, has unanimously adopted this law on the amendment of the law, the consular law, for the adoption of the law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u13	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. [[There won't be any questions.]] [[No, it's all clear.]] No such questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Renata Pzczech wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch: No, thank you.]] No. Thank you. [[We're voting.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. [[No one signed up.]] [[We're voting.]] [[We're voting.]] Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I have to take a short break right now, because I just... [[All right, let's take a five-minute break.]] [[Voice from the room: Voting, right?]] [[It was said right away.]] I'm declaring a five-minute recess until 1:43 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 38 to 13 minutes 43]] We would like to return to the second agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Consular Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 477 and the report of the Commission In print No 477 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. The Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad presented a draft resolution in which it asked for this law to be adopted without amendments; Senate print No 477 A. So we're going to vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. 73 senators voted in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Consular Law. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Repetition Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 476 and the report of the committee In print No 476 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Anna Maria Anders, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration met on 7 April 2017 on the Law amending the Law on repatriation and some other laws. The Commission has unanimously adopted the law without amendment. I would like to say that it is a great honor for me to present this bill, because this is something that has always been on my mind as a general's daughter. Władysław Anders, who cared so much that all Poles could return to the country. I am very grateful to Minister Kowalczyk, the Home Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the whole government for doing this. Reading the preamble to the bill... I think it's worth reading, because that's actually the point... It sounds like a deep bond with Poles. The descendants of the former Republic of Poland, victims of communist terror, violence forced to leave the land of ancestors, settled against their will on the most difficult to live areas of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; deprived of their ability to return to Poland, persecuted because of their origin and attachment to faith, traditions and love of freedom, condemned to work in inhuman conditions, hunger, sickness and often physical destruction; who, despite all adversities, have never renounced Poland, its traditions and culture, and have given love and attachment to the Homeland to their descendants, wishing to make amend for the harm suffered by the exiles, recognizing that it is the duty of the Polish State to allow the repatriation of the people who remained in the East. Yesterday at the committee meeting there were some questions about the bill, but there were actually no, you can say, controversy. The bill was passed, as I said, without any corrections. But since this is an important bill, I'd like to read it. For those who are not here with us What exactly is the purpose of this law. The purpose of the Law on the amendment of the Law on repatriation and some other laws is to implement such regulations as will serve to improve the process of repatriation. To this end, the definition of the repatriate, which will be the person who came to the Republic of Poland on the basis of a national visa issued for repatriation with the intention of settling permanently, has been changed. The procedure for granting a national visa for repatriation has been amended. The national visa for repatriation shall be issued to a person who fulfils the following conditions: he is of Polish origin; he has been deported or sent by the authorities of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; before the date of entry into force of the law, he has resided permanently in the territory of the present Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Azerbaijan, Georgia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic of Tajikistan, the Republic of Turkmenistan, the Republic of Uzbekistan or the Asian part of the Russian Federation. The condition of deportation or deportation will also be fulfilled when the Soviet Socialist Republics who were deported or sent by the authorities of the Union have been the initials of such a person. The national visa for repatriation may be issued to the spouse and to the second step of the repatriate and the alternate spouse. On the basis of the applicable regulations, the repatriate's family may reside in the territory of the Republic of Poland on the basis of a permanent residence permit and, as a result of a lack of entitlement to acquire Polish citizenship, do not benefit from many benefits. A person who does not have a residence and/or a place in the centre provided in Poland and fulfils the other conditions for obtaining a national visa for repatriation, the consul will issue a decision to qualify for a national visa for repatriation. In order to improve the process of repatriation, the Act provides for the appointment of a government representative for repatriation and for the appointment of a Council for Repatriation as an advisory and advisory body. The Plenipotentiary shall cooperate with the competent governmental authorities and authorities of local self-government units and non-governmental organisations. The Act imposes on the proxy a number of tasks in the field of assistance to repatriates and coordination of actions for this assistance, as well as supervision of the activities of adaptation centres for repatriates, analysis of the labour market in terms of employment opportunities for repatriates. The proxy will have to issue a decision on the granting of a seat in the centre to a person who wishes to come to the Republic of Poland on the basis of a national visa for repatriation, within no more than 3 years from the date on which the consulate issued the decision to qualify for the issue of a national visa for repatriation. The Act provides for the creation of adaptation centres for repatriates. The centres are to be a temporary residence for the adaptation of repatriates who do not have a guaranteed other place of residence. The centre is intended to provide the repatriant with adaptation and integration classes, Polish language courses and vocational training. The choice of location of the centre is intended to promote the activation of professional repatriates in the local labour market. The running of the centre shall be entrusted by a representative to social organisations, associations and other legal persons, selected by means of a competition for tenders, meeting the statutory requirements. I may say at this point that before Christmas the government brought 150 people from Kazakhstan to Poland. We thought it was gonna be some sort of test. The point was to see what kind of problems these repatriates might have. It turned out to be very useful. It seems to me that this is actually the basis, the basis for further work on the bill. Each repatriant will receive a cash benefit of PLN 200 per month, in addition to providing suitable accommodation, food, cleaning, access to distance communication equipment, unless he has taken up a paid job. The mayor or president of the city will be able to assign to the repatriate in a special situation for a period of not more than 2 years a supporting person to assist the repatriate in dealing with matters relating to medical care, education, social assistance and employment, as well as assisting the repatriate in the elderly during medical visits. The Act provides for financial aid for repatriates for housing purposes of not more than PLN 25 000 per repatriate in the form of a surcharge for: rental of a dwelling or a residential building, or a fee for accommodation in a student's home, or the cost of acquiring a dwelling or a residential building. To the repatriant who incurred the costs associated with the renovation, adaptation or fitting-out of a dwelling in the place of settlement in the Republic of Poland, at his request, by decision, the governor will provide financial assistance from the state budget to cover partially the costs incurred and documented by the repatriant, up to PLN 6 000 per repatriant. The Act also provides for grants to municipalities which will provide housing to the repatriant, up to PLN 25 000, and to municipalities which, at the request of the repatriant, will carry out renovation, adaptation or equip the housing unit at the place of settlement, in the amount of PLN 6 000 for the repatriate. In recognition of their merits in connection with the pursuit of activities for repatriates, a honorary badge may be awarded for repatriation. The badge shall be awarded by the President of the Council of Ministers either on his own initiative or at the request of a representative or a statutory body of a social organisation or an institution acting in favour of repatriates. In the current legal state, repatriates arriving in Poland, who received by way of donations a dwelling or a single-family house, are charged with inheritance tax and donations. Since this is often a burden beyond the financial capacity of these persons, the legislator has decided that the tax exemption will be to acquire, by inheritance, ordinary registration, debt collection, further recording, will order or donation of ownership and joint ownership of a residential building or residential premises constituting a separate immovable property, cooperative ownership right to a dwelling or participation in such a right, cooperative right to a single-family home or participation in such right by a repatriant if it fulfils the conditions laid down in the Act on inheritance tax and donations. Persons who have acquired Polish citizenship by means of repatriation will receive health care for up to 90 days from the date of crossing the border of the Republic of Poland. It's a very important fact. When the people from Kazakhstan arrived, we realized that the health problems, which at the very beginning... The issue of health insurance is one of the most important issues. The amendments to the Polish Charter Act aim to determine the condition of proving their knowledge of Polish at least to a basic degree for persons whose Polish origin has been established in accordance with the provisions of the Polish Repatriation Act, having on the date of submission of the application for the Polish Charter the nationality of the countries of the former Soviet republics. The government's repatriate representative will take into account the type and extent of aid already granted and their living conditions in order to ensure that the scope of assistance for the different groups of repatriates is adequate to the extent of support already received. Like I said, it's important to me personally. The questions were relatively few yesterday. There were questions about health insurance, about the housing funds. There was also an important question about religious issues, about how someone who does not know the Polish language can join the confession, the Holy Mass. It is so organized that priests who are on missions, missionaries who speak Russian, will be able to visit them. This bill is, in my opinion, good. It will be built after such a long time... I have a huge request to the Senate to accept this bill without any amendments. I announced this bill as soon as I became Minister, along with Minister Kowalczyk. That's when we said it would take about a year. Well, it took a little more than we thought, because it turned out to be a little more complicated than we thought. It seems that we will finally come to this, that after 27 years... that is, since Poland is free, we will finally manage something for our Poles. Thank you for your attention. As I say, I have a huge request for this bill to be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u15	Thank you, Senator Rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. Minister Henryk Kowalczyk was authorised to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: No.]] No. All right. She's so good that... [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: Yes, sir.]] ...doesn't require additional reasons. But the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? [[Voice from the room: There is, there is a question.]] [[The voice from the hall: the lighthouse, the lighthouse...]] [[Senator Czerwiński.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Oh, Mr. Minister... Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Minister, I'd like to speak to you in here, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u16	Mr. Marshal... [[Yes, you're welcome. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.]] ...High Izbo, Minister, I have a question about the new wording of the article. 9. Well, according to the old sound, a person who could have been repatriated, i.e. which could be granted a visa for the purpose of repatriation, was a person of Polish origin who lived before the date of entry into force of the law... and here were listed 9 countries, or actually 8 countries, 8 countries plus an Asian part of the Russian Federation. At the moment, the new wording adds an additional condition: this person must have been deported or sent by the authorities of the Soviet Socialist Union. In my opinion, it is a subjective narrowing, because such individuals could also be deported by the Russian authorities. And then we're talking about people who've been deported. Is it a coincidence, an oversight, or is it intentional? Because if it's intentional that we're only talking about those who were deported by the Soviet Union, but not by the Soviet Russia anymore... the Tsarist, I'm sorry, by the Tsar Russia, then... As I say, it's a subjective narrowing. The second such narrowing This is an indication only those deported to the fourth degree, i.e. They're the only ones who can get a visa to repatriate. Question: why only to the fourth degree? After all, there could be a case of someone having a baby, and then it's gonna be the fifth degree. And then what? I'd ask you to explain these two things. And especially this first issue is important. Why are we changing the subject range, why are we limiting it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u17	I would like to add my short question to that question. What was called the Soviet Union earlier was called the Soviet Russia. I mean, is that... Exactly, is this narrowing, since the Soviet Union is the only one there, it does not narrow it down even more, it does not restrict it, except not only the Tsar Russia, but also the country that was founded after November 1917? Because this country was called Soviet Russia. If this narrows it down, unfortunately I think it is necessary to make an amendment so that it is clear. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, Mr. Senator, indeed this entry concerning the authorities of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was a conscious record. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was formed very quickly after the Soviet period and in fact the deportations that took place were deportations in the 1930s, above all, and in the 1940s. Those were the biggest deportations. And these deportations of this bill we want to embrace. Because retreating from the years of Tsar Russia... Well, that would be very difficult at the moment to prove and to show, because this is the time. Already extremely distant. In this context, too, the record of the second generation exhausts practically all possibilities, because even if at the moment it is a second, let's say, fifth degree, it is still a minor person, a member of the family, a person whose parents are a second-rate person at least. This is the case in practice, and I don't think there is a case, at least we didn't meet one in the consultation to make it different. So when it comes to accomplices, we include accomplices to the fourth degree, and here safety is fully preserved. And when it comes to the Soviet Union, not the Soviet Russia, it's this period of several years, supposedly three years of Soviet Russia... Historians probably know better, I don't want to speak here, but this is a very short time. Back then, in general, there was no deportation. These deportations, which took place on a massive scale, were deportations of the 1930s and 1940s, and mostly here we reach, without going back, well, to the exiles of the 19th century, behind the Tsar Russia. It is difficult in practice to show then both the relationship and origin, because at this moment people of Polish origin unfortunately in the vast majority no longer even know Polish language. During the work of the Sejm Sub-Committee there were great doubts about how to justify this Polish origin, how to produce them, for example. knowledge of Polish is not such a distinction. It would be impossible in practice to go back to exiles.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u19	Thank you. Senator Jan Żaryn. [[Senator Czerwinski would like another...]] Oh, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. I can't see you... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u20	I'd like to ask you one more question. Minister, I'll admit you haven't calmed me down, but on the contrary, it's more of a concern. Because in the original version there was no mention of cover and this condition was simply not checked. According to the previous text, which still applies before the entry into force of the novel, deportation issues were not checked. It's just that if the Pole was in the East, he felt Polish and could prove it, and the proof, I understand, was on his side, he could have been repatriated. Reparation This is That's how I understand it. Restoring Poles the opportunity to return to their homeland. That's how I understand repatriation, not just as a reward for the fact that their ancestors were once deported, because this is a much narrower category of people. That's why it bothers me. As far as the fourth generation is concerned, I'd argue. You can imagine such cases where Grandpa and his great-grandson were sent down... three times the great-great-grandson will not be subject to this law. But let's leave it at that. The question of deportation. You have added a condition that was not in the original version and which significantly narrows down the subject circle. I understand you did it consciously. But why? Well, why do we not allow those who wish to come to Poland as repatriates? Let them prove that they are Polish. But why would some... Let me remind you that there is one more question, namely that some of these people, of course the ancestors of those who live there at the moment, were going to Soviet Russia or to Tsar Russia consciously and voluntarily, and perhaps these people would also like to return to their homeland. It wasn't just deportations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u21	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u22	Mr. Marshal, the senators, Mr. Senator, that is the last question you have actually answered. Since this law, and now the amendment takes place 27 years after independence and more than 25 years since the Soviet Union's collapse, so during this period probably many Poles left the area on a voluntary basis, this repatriation law of such people who voluntarily left, emigrated, would not include at all. Because it's a bill that makes up for the harm that people who have been deported forcedly have suffered. If someone voluntarily left in the last 10 or 25 years, then of course they have the right to return. We welcome all Poles who are emigrants, but we want to send help to those who have suffered harm and did not leave of their own free will, but were deported.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u23	Thank you, Minister. Senator Żaryn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. I've already asked one of them in committee. Namely, contrary to what Senator Czerwiński said, I believe that this law, however, greatly extends the category of people who will benefit from this law. And very well, only that in the provisions of this law there is a limit of 30,000 potential repatriates, and we can assume that there will be a lot more. Can the government today declare full flexibility towards a reality that may exceed the provisions of this law? I think that if such a declaration falls from the Minister's mouth, it will be very well read by the environments that want this repatriation to be carried out as far as possible. That's my first question. Now the other one. Namely, it is said that there will be adaptation centers. The Act provides for two other ways of reaching the repatriates to Poland, not necessary through an adaptation centre, but it is not entirely clear to me whether these additional good solutions, especially financial ones, will include all those who will be repatriated, regardless of how they will come to Poland: whether through an adaptation centre or without such mediation. In short, I would like to ask if, for example. money for housing for, say, a four-person family of PLN 100,000 will be transferred regardless of whether these people pass through the adaptation centre or not. Will the credit lines for the repatriates to be launched be launched for everyone, or only for those who pass through the adaptation centers?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u25	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, the Senators, Mr. Senator, in fact, the bill extends the circle of people within the definition of repatriates. First of all, this enlargement is that we include in the definition of repatriates of spouses, which has been a huge problem up to now. It's about spouses who are not Polish. It was a huge brake that slowed the repatriation because, if repatriated persons, people of Polish origin, came with non-Polish spouses, these spouses were treated as foreigners and had no help in this regard. Hence the financial dramas of this type of family. It's been extended here. As far as financial resources are concerned, Senator, of course the legislative process needs to be set in the Financial Limits Act. The Public Finance Act requires this, hence the financial limits for 2017 have been determined in accordance with what remains of the provisions for repatriation. The entire reserve was 30 million, of which more than 24 million remain, and this year's limit will be this year's. Next year 63 million zlotys are planned for the next 58 million. We estimate that the total cost is PLN 470 million, but these estimates had to be based on the number of repatriates. These were estimates made on the basis of applications for repatriation visas submitted so far, based on national censuses, etc. These data are very different, but when it comes to the number of 30,000 repatriates, i.e. people who want to come back, that's what's going to happen here. Unfortunately, they do not confirm themselves in consular work, because despite over 3 000 applications for a repatriation visa submitted in the last dozen years, these people have not been repatriated, so some of them have gone to different places. With regard to the feedback sent to the consulate on whether they are still interested in repatriation, out of the 3,000, few more than 1,000 people have provided such feedback. It should therefore be assumed that 2/3 of these people may no longer be interested, maybe they have already left elsewhere. So that such respect is really very difficult to obtain. And in this situation, of course, if a group of repatriates is much more than estimated, then... these financial limits are the minimum limits. But any budget law will be able to increase these financial limits according to needs. And here is the full, clear declaration of the government, both the Prime Minister and Prime Minister Morawiecki, the Minister of Finance, that these measures will not be lacking. Besides, the funds of several tens of millions of zlotys are a small fraction of the entire budget. And for many people there was such a declaration that if there was a greater wave of repatriation, it would certainly be a correction of this budget in the coming years. And even it is possible to correct this year's budget, if there were a huge number of repatriates, it would be possible to move funds into special reserves within the budget, such a process is always carried out every year. Such a legal path is possible. And I believe that, in line with this declaration, both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the funds should not be missed here. According to the declaration, we want to complete the process of repatriation over the next three years, an intense period. Then the bill will work further, if anyone wants to come back in four years, it will also have an opportunity, but in the next three years we want to step up this process. If necessary, it will increase the financial resources. Regarding the second question, concerning details, of course the three forms of return of the repatriates mentioned, i.e. through adaptation centers, through municipalities and through, or even without mediation, only directly at the invitation of Polish citizens... Very often they will be families of those repatriates who are already in Poland. Because 6,000 repatriates... It is not a large number, but however about 6 thousand repatriates came to Poland for these twenty-seven years. And at the invitation of such families, those mentioned may also arrive, then it is done without a repatriate center. The financial aid applies equally to all, it is the same value and the same formula, regardless of which way the persons will go to Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u27	Thank you, Minister. And I'm asking Senator Jackowski to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about the status of those who will benefit from this path of repatriation. I'm talking about the following case... As I understand, if someone obtains a national visa for repatriation purposes, i.e. such a special type of visa, at the moment when they cross the territory of the Republic of Poland, they obtain Polish citizenship from the vending machine. And now I have a question. If this is a national of another country, from the catalogue of those countries from which these people can come, then what is his legal situation with regard to the country in which he was a citizen so far, e.g. The Russian Federation or Armenia, or... What's the situation? Did the government examine here, in connection with this project, such situations and what they might possibly give rise to repercussions? 'Cause they are. countries that do not recognise double citizenship. And I would simply like to ask for a comment on this issue in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u29	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I cannot answer what this regulation looks like, because it depends on the legislation of the countries from which the repatriates will arrive. But for example. Kazakhstan does not recognise dual citizenship, therefore a repatriant who will receive Polish documents, i.e. identity card, possibly passport, if he also applies, must submit his Kazakh passport to the embassy, resign from citizenship. This is what the Kazakhstan authorities require. That's how it's practiced. I can't tell you what it looks like in other countries right now. There's a Minister of Jaws here if she could fill in my reply on legal terms... Because what we're talking about here really depends not on our country, but on what laws the countries from which the repatriates will come. Unfortunately, Kazakhstan does not apply dual citizenship, so the returnees from Kazakhstan must give up citizenship, it is foreseen. They file documents and resign from citizenship.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u31	Mr. Senator, the Minister will be with you in a moment. At least two more senators I've left out. Excuse me, senators. Mr. Senator Ryszka and Mr. Senator Grabowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. I don't think we should care about all Poles returning to Poland. Anyway, I'm sure there's a big group that's gonna stay there. I have a question about some new government program for people who will continue to be ambassadors of Polishness. Shouldn't we think about that too?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u33	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, of course this is a different subject. We are talking about repatriation, which is about making it possible to return and create tools for this return to be possible and real. Do we care if we don't care... I wouldn't want to comment on that because we're really giving you a choice. It's not like anybody's gonna bring anybody here by force. Those who are can stay. Of course, Polish and Polish aid is provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also by the Senate. Very clearly for 2 years, actually for a year, because that year was a transitional As a result of funding schools, strengthening culture, etc. I think you know very well the forms of aid for Polish people and Poles abroad using Senate funds. So that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u35	Thank you. Mr. Senator Grabowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, let me repeat the question that came up at the committee meeting in my mouth. To be honest, the answer you gave me was because you answered the other questions. I'll tell you what. I was satisfied, but as for the 90-day health insurance of the repatriates... Don't you think it would be fair, Minister, to extend the term of health insurance to 180 days? Why? During the discussion at the committee meeting, the Minister stated that, after 90 days of health insurance, there was a period in a facility that was sort of... They will already have ID, but they will not de facto pay health insurance contributions, i.e. they will not be beneficiaries of our health insurance system. The Act also provides the possibility for a proxy to extend this period for another 90 days. Do you not think, Minister, that it would be appropriate to extend this period I am not saying that at this point in time, at this legislative stage, but by means of amendments in the future - To 180 days? - Mm-hmm. Because health insurance funds will still be public funds; until these people do not actually take up work, they will be public funds. The Minister explained that the repatriate would be able to register with the employment office as an unemployed person and would then be insured, but it would still be public funds. So it doesn't matter, and a deadline of up to 180 days would really provide some security. That's one thing. The second thing that bothers me... How the bill regulates or doesn't regulate... What rules govern the issue of repatriates who will acquire the right to return as repatriates, Poles, but are already at retirement age? This could happen. How will such people be secured by the Polish pension system? Will they stay or not? If they worked out there in the country, they're supposed to be entitled to that pension. Well, the Minister explained at the committee meeting that there were no such agreements signed between individual countries. But how will these people be secured by the Polish pension system? Will they not be secured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u37	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, the Senators, Mr. Senator, in terms of health insurance, we have, of course, considered different variants of the length of automatic health insurance refunded from the state budget regardless of the activity of the people who arrived. We thought 90 days was the time when the repatriates didn't have all the documents yet. In general, it is a recognition as a Polish citizen... I will remind you that repatriates become Polish citizens at the time of crossing the border, but there must be a procedure for recognising this citizenship, as if it were a statement that it is a Polish citizen. Such a procedure must be closed within 90 days, for example, because for example. Kazakhstan only allows the maintenance of citizenship for 90 days. Then you have to give up your citizenship or go back. However, these are provisions of a different type. These 90 days are indeed such a limit period. And then what? Of course, then the repatriates are required. This activity must be based on this... extending the period of automatic insurance from the state budget, so to speak, a lack of activity. When this insurance expires, i.e. after 90 days, the repatriate family or repatriates with full documents are to behave like the Polish citizens living in the country, i.e. to work or seek employment. It is also possible, of course. registration at the employment office which makes the registered automatically become insured, he and his entire family. Of course, students, children going to school, etc., etc. are insured. Pensioners who submit an application to the Social Insurance Institution in Poland... This is where I come to the second question. The amending law does not regulate this because it is already regulated in the legislation. We did not discuss this subject in the framework of the work on the amendment. Those who start to work will acquire pension rights for a year or two, under Polish conditions, would not have the right to a pension. As well as pensioners who are currently arriving, they will become pensioners of the Social Insurance Institution. They should only prove that they worked outside of Poland. Of course, the problem is that pension contributions are not transferred, so the period worked will be a period of work without capital or with very little capital. And it can happen most often that's what's gonna happen. That the pension received will be a minimum pension. But the minimum pension also has many Polish pensioners. Of course, all the accessories will be possible here, e.g. Kombatant, if anyone proves repression or care. These people are treated just like Polish citizens. No capital required here Well, that's the Social Insurance Institution's investment in these people. However, it is necessary to document the period of employment. So, whether someone arrives in the pre-retirement age and works for a year or two or does not work at all, because he will already be retired, he will be covered by the pension system which is in force in Poland, of course, after documenting the period of work. I hope that the talks with the countries from which the repatriation takes place will lead to the transfer of capital collected on pension funds. But it's a matter of the future. We cannot refer now to non-existent rules. As far as health insurance is concerned, our motivation here was that after 3 months, which is the period for completing documentation, the declaration of citizenship, the issuing of identity cards, the number of PESEL, etc., the repatriates behaved as Poles. You can't do everything for them for too long. The adaptation period should be a practical period. If someone doesn't have a job, they go to the employment office and register. And if he takes up a job, he pays contributions and is subject to health insurance in the universally applicable Polish system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u39	Thank you. Senator Swede, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u40	Thank you. Minister, I have a question about the bill. Is this bill being promoted abroad in any way? It is known that there are many people who simply may not know that there is a possibility of repatriation to the country. Is this matter being raised by the Polish authorities in any way? It's about education. It is known that children can come to Poland with repatriates. If the children started learning, education in that country, they made a few classes there, how would they implement themselves in the education process in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u41	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. and Mrs. Senators, as regards the promotion of the bill and the conditions for returning to the country among people of Polish origin in countries from which repatriating should take place, there has, of course, been no big promotion so far. The exception was consultations on the occasion of this law, because they were not only carried out in our country, e.g. in the Union of Repatriates, i.e. among those who are already with us, but also among Poles living in Kazakhstan. So it was the only way to promote. Once this law has been passed, I think it will be possible to promote it primarily through consulates; it is as if the main source of information. In the consulates there is a database of applications for repatriation visas, in turn in the Ministry of Interior and Administration there is a database of the Polish compatriot, which contains a list of people waiting for repatriation. And to these people will be sent feedback, information about the possibility of return. We also want to take advantage of other opportunities for promotion. E.g. It so well happens that in Kazakhstan, where there is the largest number of people waiting for repatriation, this year will be EXPO. There will be a Polish delegation, you will certainly be Minister Anders, who will meet with Poles and encourage them to return. So I think that these information channels will be launched, it will also be passed through the environments of Poles there. However, such a central, certain source of information and promotion will be consulates. [[Thank you...]] Oh, and school. [[Oh, and this.]] As far as the education system is concerned, of course we do not provide for a special education system. A youth... a pilot group, let's call it, in the Pultusk... There are dozens of children out there. After less than a month of learning Polish they went to school; they assimilate well, learn, have no problems. According to our educational law, every person who comes from abroad, who is not born in Poland, has the right to an additional 2 hours of special Polish language learning per week. This is provided for in the law of education and this is true. In this example, you can see that there is no problem. These children go to school, they learn very quickly, at the moment, after 3 months, some would probably not distinguish them from Polish students, so they have assimilated.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u43	Thank you. Senator Żaryn, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u44	Minister, I have one more question. There may be a precise answer to my doubt, but I couldn't really read it. Namely if there are any limits, e.g. on bilateral relations with potential countries affected by this? And whether such conversations are prepared regarding the departure of Poles Let's stick to this example with Kazakhstan. With all their wealth? I mean, to what extent will it be possible to bring this property 100% into the country? Is there any danger that they'll... I don't want to mention the countries that might have taken this up. Can we meet with any restrictions on citizens who are about to cease to be citizens of those countries who will become Poles? Maybe they won't be able to bring their assets back? Was such a problem even the subject of government reflection? Do you know that there are no such threats? [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: Well, it's hard for me to say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u45	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, it is difficult for me to speak about all countries, but as far as Kazakhstan is concerned, it is true that even the President of Kazakhstan declared it when he was in Poland. They respect and value Poles living in Kazakhstan very much; of course they encourage them to stay there, but they also fully respect everyone's right to return. He also recalled that almost a million Kazakhs have returned to Kazakhstan in recent years. So they understand our needs and in practice, as far as Kazakhstan is concerned, there have been no such problems. It is difficult for me to say what it will be like for other countries, but I think that according to international conventions, property in these countries is respected so much that this right will also be respected against repatriates. The same applies to the right of movement of persons. So I can tell you what it looks like in practice in Kazakhstan. What if it's somewhere else? I expect it could be similar. If there's a need to fill in the answers, the Minister of Jaws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can fill in the answers. That's all I can say from practice. I can only say about Kazakhstan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u47	I still have a question about that. Does this law allow for the import of movable property? That's it. Does the Polish authorities here also... Does this law allow for the provision of funds for the import of movable property? Real estate, you know, can't be moved. That's why I asked you that question. Does the repatriant simply have to sell everything, take a few suitcases of money, if he gets a good price for the things he has left, and with these few suitcases move, while all the movable property, furniture, something else there, maybe also animals, after all, some of these are farmers, must leave there, on the spot?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u48	Mr. Marshal, your senate, that's what the bill provides for a flat-rate reimbursement for the carriage of property or movable property. It is thus calculated that the reimbursement of travel expenses is estimated in this bill as a double cost of a railway ticket, where one part this is the cost of a passenger ticket, and the second part may be used for the carriage of movable property. Of course, if this movable property is very large, it will probably have to pay more, but it is already a choice of people who decide to do so, they decide whether it is profitable to bring e.g. furniture from Kazakhstan, especially cows or goats. I don't think so. It's a little different now. This double cost of a train ticket is approximately the value of a plane ticket. In this situation, most probably won't take the train with the belongings, but will arrive by plane with a small suitcase. So this law comes to this flexibly, giving opportunities and financial assistance, but without imposing the form of relocation, it is decided by the person concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u50	Minister, I understand that these specific questions about dual citizenship and statutes will be answered by the Minister, so I will no longer deepen this subject in my question, but I have such a question for you as a constitutional minister. Namely, I am referring to the honorary badge that is deserving of repatriation. The Act provides in one article that the President of the Council of Ministers may grant it. I think it's a very good idea, a good idea. Please tell me whether the detailed rules for giving this award will be in an act of the rank of a regulation. It's gonna be a decree from the Prime Minister, right? How will this work in practice? If, for example. The senators wanted to apply for such a distinction to a particular person, what would it look like in practice? Will the Rules of Procedure or the President of the Council of Ministers issue a regulation that sets out the rules for the award of this award?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u51	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u52	Mr. Marshal, the award of the 'Deserved for repatriation' will be the award given by the President of the Council of Ministers, therefore it is not even a regulation, but the order of the President of the Council of Ministers will regulate the procedure for submitting applications and awarding awards. These details will, of course, be included in this order, there will be a need to justify the request, to describe the merits, as usual for other types of decorations. The badge "Deserved for repatriation" has also been introduced for those who, despite difficult, uncomfortable legal conditions so far, have been very involved in repatriation. These are people who have managed to bring many repatriate families to Poland. They are also local governments. Well, some of them got very active, carrying problems on their shoulders, and others didn't get involved at all. This badge... someone who's going to be very active in repatriating matters... We also wanted to honor those who had been active in repatriation so far, and so far there has not been such a distinction. It was an idea, I'll be honest with you, the repatriates' union. We thought it was a very good idea and it is worth saving this idea in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u53	Minister, I have a question for you about these centers. What is the situation with regard to the establishment of these centres? I'm not talking about the state of law, I'm talking about how many of these centers are going to be, what is the state of progress when it comes to accepting repatriates. I understand that they will not be placed in those centers that function, or centres for foreigners. Yes? They'll be separate centers. How many of these centers do you anticipate, and what is the state of progress in this case? Are they ready or will they be ready by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u54	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, as far as adaptation centers are concerned, it's not the government or the proxy under the bill, it's gonna run them, and it's gonna own them. There will be a competition for running such centres. Social organisations, NGOs, local governments, legal entities will be able to take part in such a competition. As far as the state of preparation is concerned, we already have a dozen requests from entities willing to make such a facility available. Of course, according to the criteria... So as far as possibilities and resources are concerned, right now, for at least 2,000 people... you can almost choose in these centers. That's what it says from the reports coming in. As regards the requirements and conditions for such centres, we are absolutely going away from the solutions that were in relation to the centres for foreigners and for refugees. They were usually closed centers of a different character. Within the criteria for selecting these centres, we pay very much attention to the fact that they are not closed centres, not in isolation, but even in cities, with the proximity of kindergartens, schools, etc. These people have, I would say, normal living in society and enter this society as soon as possible. The kids go to school not after three months, but after three or four weeks. As soon as they learn Polish to communicate, they should go to school. The criteria for these centres are, so to speak, completely opposite than in the case of centres for foreigners. It's about them being where the community lives. These will be the basic criteria for the selection of these centres. When it comes to offers, there are so many... The interest is that it's already out of finance. If we had filled up all the resorts that came forward, we wouldn't have the money. So it's not really a problem with the number of centers in the offer. The problem may be that consulates will have to work very hard to speed up the process of issuing visas, and this is subject to an MMSWiA control requirement, the visa is not issued automatically. Besides, the financial limits... But as for the centers, they're ready. If the scale of the action increases... the market will create more centers. Besides, there's already a lot of them. These are different types of resorts, etc. So they're willing to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u55	Thank you, Minister. I have one more question. You said that 6 thousand people in the previous period, before this law was created, returned to Poland as part of the repatriation. Here's the question: how many of those people who came back back from the countries they came from? That's what happened. Are there any estimates? Was that, let's say, 5% or 7% ? Because I know one quite extreme case from Kazakhstan, when it was a very significant person when it came to the relationship between Poles... anyway, the well-situated colonel of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs returned there, as part of his repatriation came to Poland, received an apartment in Warsaw, then changed his mind, sold this apartment in Warsaw and went back there and is still there. I don't think it's a situation like this... that local governments are so easy to pass on apartments right now, because, as I read here, it's basically enough for two years... And this is some way that for two years at first... But how many people have returned? Those were the returns.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u56	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I've heard of practically individual cases, one thing I know. The previous repatriation system, i.e. operating on the basis of the 2000 Act, and before that I don't even remember what system was... But in the previous laws there was no record of any monitoring and this is also a drawback of previous legal solutions. And we repair this system in a very important way. Also the repatriate attorney, the Repatial Council will be interested in the fate of the repatriates, which means it will not be as it has been until now, when it has not been any monitoring. That's one thing. I ask your marshal how many people have returned, I cannot answer, because there was no monitoring system and this is the fault of previous legal solutions. Now such a system will operate, so within the framework of the implementation of this law, in which there is a provision It will also be possible to define precisely the fate of the repatriates as to the obligation to report on the implementation of this law. But we know about such cases and this bill protects us from the situation when we help the repatriates buy the apartment, and they sell this apartment and leave. The Act states that, within 10 years, such purchased housing is covered by a mortgage. If the apartment is sold for example after 2 years, it will mean that 20% has been, so to speak, inhabited and the rest will be refundable. This solution is so flexible that it also allows... If someone buys an apartment in one city, but in three years they want to move to another city, then of course they can sell this apartment, but the money will have to be used to buy another apartment. And if he leaves the country, that means he has to return this uninhabited portion of the grant in proportion, so let's call it. So if he sells the apartment after two years, that means 20%. It's like he's living, and 80% is obliged to return it. This means that this real housing aid, either in the form of a co-financing of the purchase or in the form of a payment or payment of the rent, is determined for 10 years. After 10 years, this monitoring will stop. Besides, you have to really assess the legal possibilities, because it cannot be defined indefinitely. So, for 10 years, someone's tied up... not anymore, but for 10 years, they've been tied up with the impossibility of selling the apartment without consequences. The point is to avoid such cases as you say the marshal, because, yes, such isolated cases were. And even these individual cases are so demoralizing that they need to be avoided in the future and protected from them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u57	Thank you, Minister. Senator Panczyk-Podniej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said that about 6 thousand Polish Kazakhs have settled in Poland so far. Do they dominate multigenerational families, or are they mostly young people? And who's more adaptable? That's one thing. And two. Is there some sort of claim, demand among these people? Do they come here and think that they deserve it, or are they happy that they could even come and settle in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u59	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u60	Estimates say that about 6,000 repatriates have been arriving since the 1990s, or for 25 years. What is the generational structure? Very different. I think there are older people, but also a large group are young people. It was very often the case that young people, who were sent to study in Poland, later became repatriants. It's a pretty large group, too. As for the question of their attitude, mentality, I find it difficult to answer, because there was no such surveillance. I can only say from my experience, from meetings with the repatriates in the framework of the consultation of this law. In general, I think that as in any society Some people are happy and grateful to be back, but there are also so-called cases. claim, which means someone comes and says he deserves everything because they invited him here. I do not think that the repatriate group stands out in a statistical way from others, even from those who have lived in Poland since birth.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u62	Minister, Mr. Marshal, one more question. There's actually two modes here. One is to issue a national visa for repatriation, and the documents are lodged with the consul. And the second is for a decision to be made to be considered a repatriate, and that's what a voivode does. Am I right? And here's the question. Because there are indications that a visa may be refused or considered a repatriate... This set of indications is extended to include issues related to defence, state security, security and public order. And now I am. Of course it's the voivode. That's what Art. 16 (b) seek information from the relevant authorities. The question is, how does the consul do it? Is it written anywhere? Because if there are new indications, it has to be done in some kind of mode. In the case of the voivodship, that is, the second stage, in the case of a repatriate, that is clear. And how does a consul do that? Because it's the consul at the beginning of this procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u63	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u64	Mr. Marshal, the consul does the same thing, I mean. is obliged to consult the relevant services. It's listed there, what kind of service. This obligation to consult specific services about a person was also motivated by safety concerns. To put it simply, we didn't want to bring agents or hostiles under the mantle of repatriating... Well, I'm sure that's the kind of attempt that might be, so I'd better check it out. And the consul shall, in the same way, seek information on the persons to whom he will grant a national visa. This process is therefore fast and takes several weeks or even months for new applications when visa decisions are already in place. Hence, among others. The conclusion of this law is that this year there will be no great avalanche, because apart from those who already have a visa and have waited in line, new ones will wait a few months. Safety considerations required caution in this regard. Both the consul and the voivode are obliged to agree whether or not to do an interview, so to speak, whether or not it is a security risk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u65	Thank you. There are no more questions for the Minister. Thank you for your very comprehensive answers. Now I'd ask you... [[Me too.]] Aha! But to the Deputy Minister? [[Yes, sir.]] I'd like to ask the Undersecretary of State from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Renata Szczech. And I ask Senator Jackowski to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would have developed the question I asked Minister Kowalczyk. It is the legal status of those persons who, on the basis of a national repatriation visa, enter the territory of the Republic of Poland and obtain Polish citizenship by virtue of the law. What happens to their current citizenship? The list of countries listed in the Act is limited, here there are 7 or 8 countries. Perhaps there are different regulations in these countries as to whether or not you can have dual citizenship. And one more very important thing that has already been raised here. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asked about movable property, about the issue of the transfer of movable property, and I would add an element of benefits to it. If someone has acquired the right to retirement e.g. in the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Armenia or Georgia, what will happen to this witnessing? It can be, for example. higher than that which, as I understand it, possibly I'm not quite sure. The Polish State will guarantee it. Because it's supposed to be the lowest pension benefit, if it's a person of retirement age who's, let's say, 70 years old. I would ask you to clarify these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u67	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, may I begin by mentioning the countries that require their citizenship to be renounced when acquiring Polish citizenship. As Minister Kowalczyk mentioned, these are Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Georgia. At the moment when the repatriate, after this process, comes to Poland and is on the territory of Poland... He, making a previous application and being familiar with the legislation of the country from which he is leaving, decides that after acquiring Polish citizenship... He will then use the passport of the Republic of Poland, will be protected as a citizen of the European Union. He crosses the Schengen border with full responsibility for knowledge of the laws of the country of nationality so far, and makes such a decision. In most of the countries I've mentioned... There is no such requirement in the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Tajikistan, the Russian Federation. There are talks about disabling this part of Georgian citizens... But such conversations have only recently been started and I find it difficult to define them at the moment. The subject mentioned by the senator is much broader. The transfer of the center of life is the legal terminology used in Polish legislation It implies that all costs relating to the transfer of this centre are similar to the costs of objects, property necessary for the operation in the new resettlement place, which in this case is Poland. As far as I can at the moment... Such person holding a Polish passport after entering the territory of the Republic of Poland, the repatriant acquires Polish citizenship It will be able to e.g. Georgia visits without a visa. We are currently considering the possibility of bilateral talks on this issue with other countries from which the repatriation of our fellow countrymen is envisaged. As to the question concerning the benefits that the senator requested to mention, acquired in the countries of previous residence I am already talking about the repatriates who are coming, and I will say that these matters are governed by relevant international agreements with individual countries. So at this point in time, for most of the countries that I mentioned, these agreements are and are basically very detailed regulations. Whether they are fully recognized, whether they are partially accepted, or... I'm not gonna be able to give you that much detail right now. But, as I say, as a general rule, international agreements between Poland and the relevant countries, those mentioned, are governed by this. In some cases, they have been recently negotiated and, in some cases, are we planning to renegotiate these agreements in relation to our citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u69	Minister, I would like to address the issue of giving up dual citizenship for a moment. On our part, on the part of Poland, there is no such obligation. Or are we going to require that? Because the situation is as follows: the repatriant receives Polish citizenship at the time of crossing the border, and by the time he reaches the border he has the nationality of the country from which he left. And now the question is: will we control that he has his passport... will this new Polish citizen renounce himself at the consulate, assume, Russia? Are there any control elements planned for us here? I've been going over this bill, and I don't think so. Although perhaps it would be in our interest for him to give up his citizenship. But here is the issue of control and possibly sanctions by these countries, the authorities of those countries from which this citizen has left. What's the procedure gonna be like here? Or, for example, After crossing the border, on the basis of mutual agreements... Because there were such agreements with the Soviet Union, then with Russia, and the Polish authorities were obliged, on the basis of such mutual agreement, not to give Polish citizenship to those who did not renounce Russian citizenship, and vice versa, i.e. Russian authorities were also obliged not to give Russian citizenship to those who did not renounce Polish citizenship. Is this kind of deal working with anyone else? Because all these countries you have mentioned are the heirs of Russia and they are in the Soviet Union for a time this agreement was in force. Have these agreements been amended? How will this work in practice? Are we gonna demand that someone surrender their citizenship? Are we gonna check it out? If the Minister could explain this in more detail, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to remind you that the Polish Citizenship Act does not limit citizenship to Polish citizenship only. The Polish Citizenship Act allows for the possibility of having many citizenships. In accordance with the regulations, as well as with the implementing acts of the Polish Citizenship Act, procedures are provided for verifying all documents necessary to apply for the acquisition of Polish citizenship. Referring to your Marshal's conclusions or questions about the laws of the states which so require, those countries we have mentioned, which require only the nationality of their own country, I would say that we cannot interfere with these laws and impose changes in the legal order of those countries in this area. It's completely out of the scope of this bill. I do not even know the international rules that would impose such an obligation on the country to introduce such regulations. I would stress once again that the verification procedures are already at the preliminary stage of the application by the repatriator. In the case of a national visa, the consulate shall verify. As Minister Kowalczyk mentioned, we also check this through the appropriate services, which are mentioned in this amendment of the law. I repeat that the Polish citizenship law does not impose such a requirement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u71	I understand, Minister. I'm the only one who wants to know if this bill... is not a bill, it's a deal, a deal between the Soviet Union and Poland that took over these countries after the Soviet Union broke up, and which was in force for us, and which caused problems in the early 1990s, is no longer in force. Because in this agreement there was a principle that the Polish party cannot broadcast citizenship without giving up another citizenship. I understand that she no longer applies, that there are new contracts.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u72	Yes, sir. As I recall, it was a deal. Sorry about the inaccuracies. It is likely from 1995. She was later renegotiated, but she's no longer binding. As I remember, surely at the first amendment of the Polish Citizenship Act it ceased to be binding. I apologize for the lack of date in this respect, but it certainly doesn't apply anymore. [[Because it was an international agreement, and it wasn't about our internal affairs.]] That's right, it was a deal between... It's exactly what the marshal says. I can firmly confirm that it does not apply in this respect at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it should be said and emphasized that this is probably one of the most important laws that we consider in the Polish Parliament. And I would like it to sound very clear, although we know how many important laws have already been before her and will probably be over. But the weight of this bill is double. On the one hand, it is a law which, as has been said many times, makes good for all those Poles who were once subjected to extreme repression, not because of their own fault. And these repressions have passed from generation to generation until today. For those people who can still feel very clearly the consequences of the repressive Soviet, communist system today, because, of course, this system is what we are talking about as the perpetrators of these misfortunes that have happened to Poles in those areas. And in this sense, of course, it is a very important act, because the Polish state gives a clear signal that it remembers that it is with all these Poles, but also those who are family-related to Polishness and memory of Poland, although they may no longer know Polish language themselves, do not know Polish present and Polish culture so well. But our reparation also includes them, because we are connected with all those families that were once affected by the Soviet country's repressive policy. And this is a very important signal, although you have to tell yourself that the signal, which is certainly very late. Countries that are sometimes a model for us, such as: The German state has undoubtedly solved the problems of repatriation much earlier, with this vivid memory of its own people who were subjected to repression by the communist system. At that time, there were so many other people... in the case of Germany, we can talk about the fact that the repatriation involved nearly a million people. Today, after 27 years, we will be happy if there are potentially 30,000 people coming to Poland. Not only as a senator, but also as a historian I know that we should be even more delighted if 100,000 or 200,000 people came to us, because Polishness in families that were affected by various repressions until 1990, in 70 years, is really huge. These are the people who were deported in the 1930s. Very often as Poles who were then citizens of the Soviet Union. They were deported inside that country's system. But they were also Poles who were citizens of the Second Republic of Poland in 1939 and 1941. They are also descendants of those who found themselves in Siberia as Poles deported after 1944 from the Polish Kresów. I'm talking about the deportation waves. Very, very many of those who were there came back from there after 1956. Much of the Poles returned from the Soviet Union to Poland, but, as Grażyna Lipińska wrote in 1988, many of the generations of the Home Army knew that she was returning to the country of We can't quite read the balance sheet that comes with this historical experience. We can't exactly read those numbers. We can say to ourselves, for example. During the deportation in 1940 and 1941, estimates say that between 380 thousand and one million Poles were expelled from the Polish Kresów. Some of them, a percentage de facto very small, came out with the senator's father, General Władysław Anders. It was a small part not because he didn't want more people to leave. He wanted everyone to leave. However, many of the deported people in Siberia had no way of reaching any of the Polish centres at that time. The embassy was in Kujbyshev, in Buśluk, and they were in faraway Siberia. Did they stay there or died? Did they have children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren? Yeah, they did. Very many of these people were discovered only by Bishop Tadeusz Pikus, who at the end of the eighties went on behalf of the Polish Church to a distant Siberia. And all of a sudden, it was... And to this day it's probably The largest diocese of the Catholic Church in the world. And in this diocese there are, right, descendants of Poles. We cannot estimate this, all the more so after these 27 years, when this relationship with Polishness, of course, in the case of many people, began to decline because the Republic did not give them the conditions to return. But let us hope that we did not leave them in a situation of suspension so that, after the entry into force of this law, they do not discover in themselves that this Polishness is a greater gift than what has been happening in their daily life for many decades. It will be a kind of confrontation between this gift, this compensation, which will become the participation of the Polish state. They will be the beneficiaries of this reparation. And a certain dose of regret, resentment or just the awareness that they had to cope on their own, without Poland, which is still, or has already ceased to be, important to them. We'll see what it's gonna look like when this bill comes into force. As far as these questions are concerned, among others. Mr. Senator Swede. questions about the role of consulates to encourage repatriation I hope that this function will be fulfilled. It is a very important act, precisely for historical reasons, because of the need to make amends for all the misfortunes and tragedies that Poles met there. It also seems to me that this bill proves it. And that is why its weight is so high that the Polish state is very clear that although we are not the richest country in the world, we are not a country that is able to bear all such efforts and direct them to all parts of the world, we are certainly a country that wants not only to remember and promise, but also to do everything, also from the material side, to carry out these simplest, most obvious commitments. And I hope that all Poles who live in any corner of the world, in the East, but also in the West, will know And let this law tell them, remind them that the Polish state is also from taking care of Poles and saving them in the future. What we are doing today is also a signal for all those we do not know about now and who will ever be in a dramatic situation. Hopefully they'll never be in it, but they might be in it. And today, the Polish state, I hope so. He tells them: we remember those, we will remember you too. This is how I would like to see this law, just as the voice of the Polish state directed to the past I'm talking about making amends. And to the future. We are a country that takes care of its own, about Poles who are in different parts of the world and who may want to look for care in the Polish country. And this care is guaranteed to them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u75	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased and undoubtedly satisfied that, finally, after so many years of discussion, we come to a model that meets the demands that have been put forward since the beginning of 1989, when Poland began to regain its freedom and democratic transformations in our homeland. Finally, after some different concepts, even the adoption of a bill that was coming up against... But unfortunately, for various reasons, the realization practice came out the way it went out. Minister Kowalczyk mentioned that up to now, on the basis of the regulations that are in force, 6 000 people have taken advantage of the opportunity of repatriation. And finally, we have a bill that's trying to solve this issue. Of course, this bill may not be perfect, maybe a lot of things will come out in the laundry. I perfectly understand the authors of the law and all of us who are involved in the legislative process, because we are dealing with a group of people whose numbers are not really complete, we are dealing with administrations in many countries... These are still the remnants of the former Soviet Union that there are some taboo topics that are not mentioned here, there are things that I think of here also in the international legal loop So we're dealing with a situation that's not entirely identifiable. And this undoubtedly also trumped in the answers, whether it be the Minister or the Minister. And I also share this view that we simply do not yet fully know whether certain elements of the bill discussed here need to be amended in the future. But I'm very happy for you. And here's a thank you to the government. Finally, this postulate, which has been reported so many times, especially by the Polish community, our Polonia, is finally being implemented. And the interest in this bill is great. I hope her fruit is very good. Professor Żaryn mentioned our traumatic history. Here, in this catalog... One could say that we had actually 250 years of deportation or export of citizens of the Republic of Poland. Maybe it would be better to say that, not: Poland. The first wave was, of course, the barristian insurgents, that is, participants of the bar confederation, at the turn of the 1960s and 1970s. And we have historical reports of deportation just as part of the repression after this break of independence. Later, traditionally, after the Kościuszko Uprising, the November Uprising, the January Uprising... There were different waves. And this may be the most massive moment that connected with what happened immediately before the outbreak of World War II. I'm thinking about the so-called elements here. Polish operation, which was carried out in two republics in which Poles dominated. And notabene led to the genocide, which was, you can say, precursor to the Katyn genocide. Because as a result of the Polish operation, the events that took place in 1937, were killed, murdered by the NKVD, according to various estimates, over 100,000 Poles. This shows the scale of the drama of our compatriots. And then these hundreds of thousands, or perhaps even millions, which, as a result of the Second World War, were subjected to repression in various forms. So that at the moment the homeland gives back what it can give to our compatriots who have undergone a range of great sufferings, sufferings that have translated into generations. It wasn't like one generation got hurt, because unfortunately generations got hurt. For this reason, satisfaction should be expressed in relation to the law discussed here. I also want to emphasize, because I have contact with various Poles who live today. in the territory of the Russian Federation, that these Poles are very proud to have Polish roots. They are not directly affected by the effects of this law, which we are talking about at the moment, because their residence in Siberia or elsewhere was still connected with the tsarical times, i.e. the cover-up. It was a whole pacification action, already unrelated to the uprisings, when, for example. The Tsarian authorities simply moved the entire villages for colonization reasons. It is a very rich story and actually every moment of our history connected with deportations abounds with events that are quite little known and poorly recognized, as you rightly mentioned the senator Prof. Żaryn. This is because it is extremely difficult to examine because of the issues of the availability of archives and ease of movement in archives. But that's a separate problem. I'd like to bring up another story here. There was a exile named Jankowski, who was sent after the January Uprising. After the first period of the cathedral, he was able to settle, but only in Siberia. He decided to settle in Vladivostok. He settled there and came to... It was the turn of the seventies and eighties of the 19th century. He made a lot of money, owned huge areas of land. First of all, he was an outstanding hunter and wrote As far as I know, popular to this day in hunting circles in Russia It's a bear-hunting manual. And even in Soviet times, communist dignitaries used it. It was a best-selling manual for volunteers, which is for hunters, describing how to hunt a bear. There's a lot of biography like that. Not to mention the brother of Marshal Piłsudski, Bronisławie, who had great scientific merit. Few of them, his descendants, the closest family of the marshal, are still living in the territory of today's Japan. There are very different, interesting, complicated stories and fates. And probably any of those families who have had similar experiences could say a lot about it: give a witness and present the historical account of a particular family that has experienced it. So that I would like to thank you very much for this law and express my conviction that the number of people who will benefit from it will be as high as possible. There may even be more such people than the estimated 30,000 that Minister Kowalczyk spoke about at the joint committee meeting yesterday when we considered this bill. I am convinced that this law will contribute to building a natural community such as Poland; a community that is trying to heal the wounds resulting from our tragic history over the last few decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u77	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ministers! What I'm about to say may be a truism, but we will finally have a good bill on repatriation, and the bill promised in the election campaign by Law and Justice. I will also say that it is high time for it, because many young Poles living in Kazakhstan or in other republics of the former Soviet Union are leaving, for example. to Russia, where they are offered quite worthy conditions of residence. It is not necessary to add to what damage this is happening to the Polish interest. Speaking of the fact that we finally have a good bill, I will mention that the 2000 law did not work out, as the data of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs testifies. Only 6 thousand Poles returned to Poland. Meanwhile, in Kazakhstan alone, as it was said here, there are many thousands of them, as well as many Poles living there for years waiting to be able to come to their homeland. And many of them may have already checked out of the queue, resigned because they didn't wait for the voice of their homeland. And this is actually an absolutely unacceptable situation. I would like to remind you that the main reason for this bill being dead was to cede the burden of repatriation on the shoulders of the communes. Finding a job, providing municipal premises for thousands of repatriates was clearly beyond the possibilities of local governments. I would also like to add that we have amended this term of office We, Members and Senators Also with a view to repatriation, the Act on the Charter of a Pole. This amendment entered into force on 1 January this year. On the basis of it, about 10,000 people of Polish origin can come here from the East, they can work here, study here and even obtain Polish citizenship. But, of course, they don't have the privileges that this current repatriation bill will give. There has been much talk here about the new solutions contained in this Act, but let me remind you that we have a definition of a repatriate in this Act. This was the person who was deported by the Soviet authorities to the East and subjected to repression there. That is to say, those sent or deported by the authorities of the Soviet Union to Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan or the Asian part of the Russian Federation, and of course the descendants of these people. Importantly, the basic issue will be the declaration of the person concerned himself that he feels like a Pole. I do not need to remind you that many of these people do not have any documents, moreover, many of our compatriots from the area of the former Soviet Union before World War II consciously destroyed any documents concerning their Polish origin. Some documents, letters confirming contact with Polishness Because being a Pole at that time meant arrest, repression or exile to the camp. Therefore, many of our compatriots cannot clearly document their Polish origin. Therefore, if someone declares, in the presence of the Polish Consul, to belong to the Polish people and if there are any indications that would confirm this declaration, then we will help such people to settle in Poland. The Act established an office of representative of the government for repatriation and the Repatial Council for opinions on the granting of specific assistance to repatriates. There is a record in the act that repatriates will be able to be invited, of course also by names, by families already staying here in Poland, and of course they will be able to obtain the funding provided for by the law. Those who do not have anyone close to them in the country would live in adaptation centers, they would have a place with full board, the possibility of gaining specific skills, including learning Polish language, taking vocational courses. The centres are to be run by social organisations, associations or other legal persons selected in an open competition for offers. The repatriant will be placed in the facility on the basis of a decision of a government repatriate representative. In addition, the centres will be supervised by him. The amendment also proposes specific forms of financial assistance for repatriates. According to it, the proxy will provide the repatriate with financial assistance to meet the needs of housing, up to 25 thousand PLN. This support will be available for payment for the purchase of the apartment, payment for rent for the rented apartment, etc. Importantly, the novel provides that a one-off grant from the state budget of up to 25 thousand PLN for the repatriate will be granted to the municipality that will provide the apartment to the repatriate. It's very important too, because, like I said, The municipalities were not very interested in receiving repatriates for financial reasons until now. In recent years, only 6 municipalities have adopted our compatriots, and 3 to this day are considering this possibility. As many as 79 local governments said they couldn't afford repatriates. The government assumes that the program of the return of Poles to their homeland will be implemented in 2017 and 2026 and that at that time around 30,000 repatriates will return to the country. The total costs are to be covered by the State budget. It is very good that Poland is finally beginning to think about our countrymen in a more serious way than before. It should be said that helping our fellow countrymen in the East has been so far I dare to describe it as a disgrace to the Polish state. In comparison, I would like to remind you that within 5 years the Germans brought nearly 1 million people of German origin from the former Soviet Union. So we have to pay back the moral debt we have incurred towards Poles in the East. Many of them for their Polish origin were repressed, they suffered only because they were Poles, that they did not want to renounce Polish language, Polish culture or Catholic faith. Thanks to their courage and love for Poland e.g. in Kazakhstan, what anyone who goes there can say, in many places people feel like in Poland. Therefore, most of our compatriots feel disappointed because free Poland has not been able to cope with their repatriation so far. Well, unfortunately, their situation is getting worse literally from year to year, they feel insecure, they're rustic, they're looking for a better life in Russia, so it's gonna get harder and harder for them to make a return decision. Moreover, it is worth knowing that the Kazakhstan authorities want Poles to remain, they want a minority of European origin to remain in Kazakhstan, especially since 800,000 Germans have left. The Kazakhs treat Poles like other national minorities. Poles are not persecuted, they are not discriminated against, moreover, they can cultivate their customs, they can learn Polish language, they can act in Polish organizations. Bringing our compatriots to their homeland, we should remember those who will remain there, will continue to be ambassadors of Polishness, some bridge of cooperation between Poland and Kazakhstan. Of course, we know that to those who remain there, the Senate and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs help to maintain ties with their homeland, to maintain knowledge of Polish language, culture and customs, but I hope, as I also talked about when asking questions to the Minister, that the government will create some new program of care for Poles who remain there, a new program in such a way as to rethink how to bind them even more to Polishness. Returning to the last sentence of the bill, I will say that the actions currently being taken are, if we may say so, the last historic attempt to bring our sent-away compatriots back to their homeland. If we do not meet this task now, our problem will be solved by the governments of Russia, Germany and even Belarus. Therefore, I hope that soon the process that we are about to start with this law will begin dynamically. And that's our moral and patriotic commitment. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. You were the last one to speak to Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are various myths circulating around Poles in the East as well as repatriations. This repatriation was at different times and included Polish citizens who were in the Soviet Union, including the Soviet oppression system, at different times and in different situations. The first, great repatriation, in 1944 and 1947, was a repatriation in the situation of changes in the borders of Poland. Poland was moved 80 km west and therefore most Poles from those areas that entered the Soviet Union wanted to leave. And rightfully, she wanted to leave. For some, it was a rescue from repression. This involved a large number of Home Army soldiers and their families. It was a big repatriation as part of a change of boundaries, mass repatriation, you could say, certainly more than a million. But it was also a two-way repatriation, because Polish citizens of Ukrainian nationality were moved, with their consent, from the Lublin and Rzeszow provinces to the then borders of the Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic. So it worked both ways. And that was the first wave of repatriation, the biggest. The second wave, from 1956 to 1958, included those who were repressed by the Soviet authorities, i.e. those who were in camps and left the camps on the basis of amnesty after Stalin's death, those who were on forced resettlement due to the fact that members of their families were underground or opposed to the system. It was a few tens of thousands. Some of us remember this repatriation of 1956-1958. I remember her, too. But they were mostly people who came out of the camps, who were forced to relocate and who were condemned to do so in the post-war years, starting in 1944. Now we are engaged in repatriating people mainly from Kazakhstan. This is a group of completely different categories, whose previous repatriations did not include, because they were Poles from the First Republic, but citizens of the Soviet Union, so these agreements did not apply. This is therefore a different category. Two autonomous regions in Belarus and Ukraine inhabited by the Polish population, the Leisure and the Marchlewski regions were wound up as part of the repression in 1936 and 1937. In 1936, not only the opponents, but also the members of the party, the heads of collective farms, were deported as part of Stalin's preparation for a possible war with Poland. Because I don't think he was thinking about the war with the Germans then, because with the Germans until the early 1930s, the Soviet authorities of Russia. And then the USSR worked together. Of course, it was not about preparing some strategic depth in connection with the war with Germany. No, it was about preparing for a possible war with Poland. In fact, they've all been deported. In 1937 in a slightly different area Partly there, but also in some other areas The NKVD conducted a Polish operation in Ukrainian areas, where 102 thousand 400 people were shot. The exact number is known because the Soviet service, like the German service, carried out very accurate statistics. This does not mean that there is no Polish minority or other Poles left in these areas. The largest group of Poles, several hundred thousand people, is located in the center of Ukraine. This law focuses primarily on people from Kazakhstan, i.e. those who could not participate in the repatriation before, as well as on persons who cannot apply for a citizenship certificate, because in the case of a citizenship certificate, someone must present proof that he was a Polish citizen, and here there is no such situation... After all, the concept of citizenship is not a 17th-century concept, but a concept that was developed in the 19th century, beyond this group. As part of this repatriation, which is so criticised, 6 000 people have returned so far. Is it little or much? Six thousand. It was estimated that in the mid-1990s there might be 30,000 people willing, but then there was a different situation in Kazakhstan, and if someone has a chance and the situation is good, then there is no such rush to repatriate. The Germans left in the early 1990s precisely because independent Kazakhstan had a policy of nationalisation in which Russian and other European minorities were pushed away from their positions, from the army, from the administration. And that was clear. That's when Kazakhstan had this policy. This also affected the Kazakh Germans, Poles, so there was pressure to leave. This policy has changed, but that doesn't mean Kazakhstan is somehow holding down our countrymen or Russians. No. Kazakhstan was interested in changing the national situation, because in the early 1990s there were 60% Kazakhs and 40% Europeans, especially Russians. At the moment, the situation has changed, but this policy is still being pursued. But also, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Kazakhstan has changed. The situation in Kazakhstan has changed, i.e. The standard of living has risen significantly. First of all, oil, gas, what's in Kazakhstan... for Kazakhstan is a natural resource at the moment, caused the situation to change. And I'm not surprised that out of the 3,000 people who've been waiting to be repatriated from our side, you can count $1,000. It's very possible there'll be more, but it depends on the situation there, on the spot. A few hundred thousand returned to Germany, but it was a different situation, it was in the early 1990s... until the mid-1990s. I would warn against the mistakes the Germans have made. The Germans settled these displaced people in places... in compact clusters. The ghettos have formed. This generation that has arrived continues. These are Russian-speaking ghettos. And there they are treated as Russians, and they are said of them, Russians. In Kazakhstan they were treated as Germans, there they are treated as Russians. It was a mistake. So you can't repeat that mistake, you can't, let's assume, buy out or point out a quarter or a few buildings and settle these people, because that's just gonna cause problems. Under Cracow, on the basis of sincere enthusiasm, the idea was made to bring our fellow citizens to the old people's home at this age and put them there. This ended in a terrible fight between them, between those who spoke Russian, partly Polish, and Poles from there. That didn't work out at all, because of course you don't exaggerate the oldest trees. I'll tell you what, it doesn't bring them back. And if it comes down to it, it's with the youngest ones. Minister, I would like to draw attention to the scholarship program here. For this must be money, because it is a natural way of repatriating from Kazakhstan and Siberia, but especially from Kazakhstan. Over 90% The young people who come to our studio stay in Poland. And they bring in the elders, their grandparents and their parents. Of course, you have to help them too, it's natural. I think this is the best situation. However, we must realise that the citizen of Kazakhstan, who is repatriating and receiving Polish citizenship, also receives the right of residence throughout the European Union. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. You have to be aware of that, too. We can't keep them here unless we give them some support. We look at it all so idealistically, and you have to take the food out of the fact that in the next generation they're mixed families. And these families can say: we are Russians, Germans or Poles. These are mixed families, which mostly lost, so to speak, language. This language knows the last generation, or generation of children exported in 1936. We need to be aware of this. 'Cause we're looking at this issue so schematically. That to Tsar Russia, not to Kazakhstan, was at the end of the 19th century voluntary economic migration. St. Petersburg, Baku, Tyflis, Poles from the Kingdom went there to earn better wages. That's where the Poles studied. There was much less emphasis on Poles than here in the Kingdom. And that also mattered. The poems, the papal reform... where they broadcast land and gave every family 100 rubles each. There are Poles in the poem, but their migration was voluntary migration. When they heard that they were on an inhuman earth, they were really outraged because they went there voluntarily. There were Stalinist repressions, etc., but emigration in the 19th century was another emigration. I believe that by adopting the principle that people exported, especially people from Kazakhstan, being repressed, will have... Repatriation is a good principle, it is a continuation of the principle that has been applied, but at the moment it is no longer so that in Siberia there are people who are being oppressed. These are individual situations. Two waves of migration, especially in 1956, 1958, were waves... These Poles, Polish citizens, were returning to the country. I'm talking about realizing that these waves of migration had different characteristics, and the repatriation here concerns a completely different group, for which the possibility of returning... [[Mr. Marshal...]] This was impossible until 1990. Thank you for your kindness, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 472, and the report of the Commission In print No 472 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, a joint meeting was held between the Health Committee and the National Economy and Innovation Committee. The meeting was chaired by the chairman of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska. The meeting was attended by Senators of 2 Joint Committees and guests. Former Minister of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz with collaborators and numerous invited guests The representatives of various types of apothecaries, the Federation of Polish Patients, the owners of pharmacy facilities, entrepreneurs, employers, the Confederations of Leviathan. You also attended the meeting as a representative of the Senate's Legal Office. I'd like to ask your marshal here not to do this again... The point is that it was a bill from the Parliamentary submission, and at this committee meeting there were no representatives of the Sejm and all the questions were addressed to Minister Tombarkiewicz. The Act provides that a pharmacist who has the right to pursue a profession of single-member economic activity, a public company, a partner whose business is solely to operate a pharmacy and whose partners are only pharmacists who have the right to pursue a profession shall be authorised to operate a public pharmacy. The issue of the permit depends on the number of residents per pharmacy and on the distance from the location of the planned pharmacy. The aim is to increase the availability of these facilities also outside the centres of large cities. The bill was discussed by the Minister of Health, Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz. Counselor Bożena Langner presented three proposals for amendments. Deputy Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz disagreed with the proposed amendments and then we moved on to the discussion. The discussion was long. I've calculated how many people have spoken and what problems have been raised. About 80 different problems were raised during the joint committee meeting; they concerned a lot of things. Maybe in the course of the discussion there will be questions, then it will be easier for us to answer that. At the end of the discussion there were de facto two problems. All pharmaceutical masters and representatives of the apothecary were in favour of this law and representatives of entrepreneurs were against it. The senators have proposed... Senator Tomasz Grodzki proposed to reject this bill. He was also against it. For adoption of the law without amendment. There's been a vote. I move to the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn tabled 3 amendments as minority amendments. These are the proposals put forward by your patron from the Legal Office, which you have taken over by the senator. I can't remember now if Senator Grodzki... Will there be an amendment? No, it won't. So there are only Senator Augustine's amendments. That's all, High Izbo, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's an important bill. Thank you, Senator Prof. Stanisławek, for being so brief, so surgical, but he really gave up what was happening at the joint committee meeting. All the more reason to thank him for saying that without irony. That he did it objectively, even though his club in the Sejm voted against this law. We have filed a motion to reject this law in its entirety for one fundamental reason. If the senators want to ask you about the details, of course I'm at your disposal. In view of our time, all I'm going to say is that the reason is that this bill is clearly pharmaceutical-oriented, and in no case patient-oriented. And that was the main reason that we're asking for the bill to be rejected. In our opinion This thread will be developed by colleagues of the senators in the discussion of this law does not give rise to any element beneficial to patients. The pharmacy will either be as far away or further away, the drugs will not dance, and they will probably go, and economic freedom in this particular area of pharmacy will be disturbed. And so, for example, a pharmacist's child, if he is not a pharmacist, will not be able to inherit a pharmacy from his parents. Because she's not gonna be a pharmacist. This is the essence of what we wanted to say. We urge you, as in the Seym, to seriously reflect on the meaning of this law. I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS senators to the fact that if it weren't for one other parliamentary club, this bill wouldn't have passed. Even in the PiS club, a parliamentary majority was not obtained on this matter. I urge you to be careful when you vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to say that the amendments proposed by the Legislative Office are important for legislative correctness, but, above all, they have a large load of substance. What raised great concern was the relationship between the provisions of the new law and the state that we have today when it comes to the operation of pharmacies. The Minister assured me that this would not have a negative impact on the situation and that those drugstores that function today could continue to function on similar terms. Many of the social partners raised this issue, claiming that this would not be the case in many cases. Senator Grodzki was just talking about one of these cases, but there are so many of them, so much so that we should believe Minister Radziwiłł, who said: zero new pharmacies. And we were assured that this would not be the result of this bill. Who do you believe? This will be the case: holding back investment opportunities, inability to develop business, inability to obtain new concessions and losing the pharmacy if you have more than four. Well, if you lose your license, you can't fix it anymore. These are real threats. It is therefore necessary to include in the Act provisions which will ensure that cases that have already been initiated and authorisations issued do not apply to those provisions. And those proposals that your legislator has made here are moving towards. I encourage us to accept them, thereby guaranteeing that those who have invested their money, their knowledge, their skills will be able to continue to run their pharmacy. I'm going to take this opportunity to be here at the podium, and I'm going to say that I was among the people who applied for the minority, the one presented a little bit earlier. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this project will be detrimental to patients also because there will not be adequate competitiveness in this market. Instead of focusing on what is a real failure, namely the re-export and monopolization of wholesalers, the state focuses on this sector, which operates in a very high competitive environment, and for the benefit of patients. It's completely unbelievable. And the question is who's behind it. 'Cause it's not all resorts. Of the three opinions we have here, only one is positive. The Minister of Development is definitely against it. The UOKiK also says this bill... Well, not to this particular project, because this is the answer to the earlier question, but to these regulations, exactly these regulations, says absolutely not. The UOKiK thinks it's harmful. So the question is, if this isn't about a patient, isn't it the corporate interests? The PiS has changed so much that today they're putting forward corporate projects? You don't want to believe yourself. I hope there's still time for reflection.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u87	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rotnicka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u88	Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. There's one thing I'm wondering. In fact, I have a question for the rapporteur, who so in substance presented the report to the committee. One thing hit me. The fact that a proposal for a law has been made without amendment. That would suggest that we do not want to discuss this law at all, and it is known that it affects many areas of our economic life and our, say... well, maybe not health, but sometimes our nervous endurance when it comes to healing ourselves. I have this reminiscence, a memory from the '90s, when the new conditions of the economic system were forming. At that time certain local authorities, although local authorities, tried to introduce certain regulations regarding the number of shops It's whether it's the bakers, whether it's the bookstore, or the junk shops, or whatever. However, it has turned out that the market and economic freedom have dealt very well with this problem, so that freedom of trade exists. Now this situation, which refers to pharmacies, looks similar. Except it is a much more sensitive matter, because these solutions are not a government project, but it is a project of a certain group of Members who may be influenced by some corporations, perhaps under the influence of someone who is not necessarily a specialist in this field. And if you don't mind... I think it won't be a mistake if he tells me. Or you, who has submitted this proposal for adoption without amendment. Because he would testify that very little is involved in the legal matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u89	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u90	Mrs Senator, Mr Marshal, before I answer these questions, I would repeat my request for Members to come or discipline them by the Marshal of the Sejm, so that, if they report such laws, they will participate in their consideration. ♪ 'Cause it's ♪ Welcome ♪ Mr. Minister... There's an envoy, right? [[There's an envoy. And he was at the committee meeting.]] Excuse me? [[There's an envoy. And he was at the committee meeting.]] [[Good morning...]] Mr Bud? [[Waldemar Buda, Member. I, on behalf of the applicants, have been all over... both at the entire committee meeting, and I am today, from the very beginning.]] Oh, thank you. Because during the committee meeting, I asked Senator Kraska that there was no one. Thank you very much, Mr President, for coming. Senator, I'm gonna answer these questions one at a time. Firstly, and I asked such a question, in whose interest this law might be in, because the representative of Leviathan suggested this issue. And he said to me this way: it's in the interest of all the pharmaceutical masters. That's one thing. And the second question... I'm sorry, I lost track... [[Who filed the motion?]] And who filed the motion? Or Senator Kraska... I'm not gonna answer that right now... [[I think Senator Pekkis, I think...]] Puffs, huh? I don't know, you'd have to take a look, wouldn't you? That's why I didn't name it, but I know it's gone... But I was sitting on the sidelines. I wasn't following it like that. [[Senator Pekkis was.]] Senator Pekkis, right? [[Thank you. I asked because minority applicants are known, and the applicant for this law without amendments was unknown to me. Hence the question.]] Yet, Senator, as for these shops... There was such a question to Minister Tombarkiewicz, whether it is a law that regulates, or a law that regulates... And it was clearly said that this is a law that regulates the number of pharmacies and their distance in relation to the number of inhabitants, but does not regulate the issue of pharmacies.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u91	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u92	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, a question for Senator Stanisławek. Professor, most of the time, this kind of legislation raises the question: who is it supposed to serve? Well, here you go. As if not going too far to answer that question, what do you think... Because the professor, as I recall, also voted actively, very strongly, in favour of this bill. So, in a human way, in a human voice, tell me what I already asked at the committee meeting, because I didn't hear it from the Minister, so: what will be the success, the good, the good side of this bill for each patient after this change? 'Cause I think that's why we're doing this. It's true, isn't it? In other words, it would be better not only for those running the pharmacy, but above all for what was going on in the discussion, i.e. that the patient's well-being should be the primary objective. So tell me what good the professor thinks will turn out to be on the patient after the change of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u93	Thank you very much. You picked up the senator at the committee meeting. I don't think the answer's simple. I, too, tried to catch the answer to that question from the organization's statements. Minister Tombarkiewicz presented that there would be a more balanced distribution of pharmacies, that they would not be concentrated only in shopping malls, that they would also be in the suburbs. Whether they'll be in small towns... I don't know that either. At the moment, it is difficult to clearly answer whether they will be profitable in small towns or whether they will live out of these minimum margins. I don't know if the pharmacy's coming to the patient, or if the patient has to go to the pharmacy. There was talk of re-exporting drugs, what this bill is about to end. She doesn't really change re-exports in my opinion, but she's supposed to be the basis for the next bill and for the supervision of drugs. Let's see what this surveillance is gonna be like, 'cause we don't have it yet. We don't have the Surveillance Act. But there's the first step to stopping the drug re-export. So that's also supposed to be for the benefit of it, because it's being used. In accordance with the opinion delivered at the committee's meeting By online drugstores, which thus reduce the price of drugs by earning money on re-exports. I repeat what happened in the O.R. [[Mr. Marshal, I still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u95	Mr. Senator, you brought up a subject I didn't ask you about, but you inspired me. I would ask for a supplement, so that we can prevent re-exports from being part of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u96	I don't know which part. Right? [[Thank you.]] There was a question. [[Because we think...]] But that's supposed to be the basis for the next bill. I'm handing over information on what happened at the committee meeting. I'm not the author of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u97	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Mr President. I'm opening a discussion. As the first to speak... [[Discussion?]] [[And ask the minister?]] [[And the minister?]] Oh, good. I'm sorry. Senators are right... The bill was filed by the government. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[By the government?]] By the MPs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u98	This is a bill made by Members. We support the law and support its solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u99	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u100	Will the Minister be available... [[Please, Minister, come to us.]] ...in sight? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, we're trying to look at the bill through the eyes of the client, because that's probably the only good perspective. When different operators on the market present completely divergent views, it is best to look at the customer's eyes. I share the opinion of the Minister for Development who said that this law in the long term will lead to complete fragmentation and fragmentation of the market. Four drugstores... So there will be more and more small entities, mini-networks. In your opinion, Minister, will such mini-entities have some negotiating position towards drug managers, to producers, to wholesalers? Aren't you afraid that the Minister of Development is right and those who are concerned that the dominant position of wholesalers and producers will be even stronger and thus be able to impose high prices?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u101	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u102	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such concern, because the prices in pharmacies Which will be, but at the moment they are also The refunded preparations are rigid and here the price game, this profit game, will not take place. The principle of pharmacy for pharmacists, i.e. the departure from the sale of various types of products which accompany turnover in current online pharmacies, products not necessarily related to the refund, has a counterproductive effect. We also want to introduce an element of pharmaceutical consultation. or pharmaceutical care, which is completely gone at the moment. So this is the extra element... [[But it's not in the bill.]] At the moment in this law, which is in force, the pharmaceutical consultation is also indicated, but is not implemented, and is not implemented because we are dealing with shops rather than pharmacies. That's also the element. As for the competitive fight... If the system is stabilized and handed over to pharmacists, in the hands of a profession of public trust, wholesalers will also have to adapt to it and as if price aggression, aggression, so to speak, marketing will also have to be adapted. I'd rather expect a reverse situation, rather an impact on wholesalers than the other way around. The issue of exports was also raised. Since the pharmacist has the opportunity to run this pharmacy, fear of losing his license he will certainly not take such a risky illegal activity, because as if he would lose his workplace, his workshop. Hence, these are the elements in favour of this law rather than the contrary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u104	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I'm talking about a re-export story. I understand from the Minister's statement that the conviction of preventing this negative phenomenon of re-export is based on the belief that a person with a concession, a pharmacist, will not risk re-export, because he may lose his licence. Yes? That's how I figured it out. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Yes.]] That's one thing. So the Minister confirms it. And the second question about what I asked your professor. According to the Minister... Could the Minister tell me what the benefits will be for patients after the introduction of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u105	First of all, this group of pharmacies in a single pharmacist will be much closer to the patient, especially in smaller towns and villages. Because at the moment the concentration of network sales, network pharmacies takes place mainly in cities, and in cities much larger than the average in Poland. This availability is much greater. The second element is this pharmaceutical consultation, pharmaceutical care regarding the therapies used by the average customer, and it is not only, as it happens sometimes or even often, in the field of advertised dietary supplements. Here we are talking about information about medicines and therapeutic methods in the pharmaceutical consultation, which we want to strongly support. As for prices, there were such suggestions that we would increase prices. I've already answered that. Pharmacies with a business focused primarily on medicines refunded will not be endangered at all. It doesn't seem like the price is going up here. [[It's the other way around. They won't be in danger because the price could be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Silence. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u107	Minister, I would like to ask you to accept the criteria related to the number of inhabitants of the municipality. A minimum of 3 000 people per public pharmacy were accepted and the requirement that the distance between pharmacies should be at least 500 m. These are the criteria that give rise to authorisation for running a pharmacy. Where did these criteria come from? Has there been any empirical research? Do you think that makes sense? According to various types of research, contrary to appearances where there is a concentration of certain points of sale or service, trade is not at all to the detriment of businessmen or even customers. This is often associated with convenience and benefit for customers and for those conducting this activity. I believe that the decision should be left here to those who are active. Let them decide where they want to do their business. The free market game seems to solve the issue of pharmacies, as is the case with other businesses. [[Undersecretary of State at the Health Ministry of Zbigniew King: Could I ask you for these studies? I understand that's a question for the bill. Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u108	Yes, you're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! To answer that question, you have to...]] I'm sorry. Unfortunately, I cannot give the floor to the Member. I'm being restricted by the rules. I take it the Minister asked for some documents in writing, right? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: No. I meant research. I'm so sorry. I thought that...]] I'm sorry. The Rules of Procedure won't allow me to give you the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a question. The State disciplines us and pays attention to the applicant's participation in Senate meetings. What's our role if we're gonna be here, but we can't speak?]] We will explain this doubt. The senator says he spoke to the Legislative Bureau and that you can be given the floor. Wait a second.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u109	Maybe I, without referring to these studies, will answer the senator's question about the deployment and the idea of focusing. We want to go back to the formula of the public health institution. For the whole public health market, such regulations exist. Therefore, the regulation determining the number of potential customers and the distance here is as if the existence is right. As for concentration and market games, I will say that right now we have a situation that we want to change - pharmacys are sort of concentrated in the centers of big cities, at distances that are small or minimal. We're more interested in making pharmacys in smaller towns and places, so to speak, closer to potential patients. Hence the regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u110	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine volunteered... No, he's gone. [[I...]] Senator Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I understand very well that the Minister is awkward to report a bill with which you have little in common, because it was conceived somewhere in the depths of the parliamentary offices, and then under the patronage of Minister Łanda, who foretold that it was merely a patronage, and then there would be a great pharmaceutical bill, but Minister Łanda, happily or unhappyly, is no more. Yesterday, Minister Tombarkiewicz reported this, who was covered with quite intense questions, and today it fell on the Minister. I have a vague impression that you don't feel comfortable about reporting this bill, which is why I won't... We will focus more on the discussion than on the torture of the Minister. But, Minister, today a pharmacist can also open a pharmacy, just like any other citizen who hires a pharmacist at a pharmacy he'll open. That's what it is, among other things. economic freedom. I understand that the resort would like to have as little as possible to do with this law. But tell me what was the reason why the number 4 was chosen arbitraryly when it comes to the number of pharmacies that a pharmacist can open instead of 5, not 8, not 2, not 1. This contradicts the argument that the pharmacist is to be close to the customer, because if he has 4 pharmacys, he will be the same owner as any other, and he will have books, supplies, supplies, and no time for the patient at all. Tell me, did you have any effect on the fact that there was a number 4?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u112	Number 4 involves the possibility of providing pharmaceutical care on such a scale. This also gives us some opportunity to create some sort of network of these drugstores supervised by one pharmacist. That's the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u113	Thank you very much. Senator Czarnobaj and then Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u114	Minister, I have two questions. The one I asked at the committee meeting, maybe the minister... I told you I'd ask them during the debate. According to today's legal interpretation, we can control concentration up to 1% the market. Tell me, what's the difference between controlling 1%? And the fact that we control it so that a particular entrepreneur or a pharmacist can have no more than four drugstores. What's the benefit of that? And why it's done so that we're going to be going to number 4, if we're going to have 1%. And we can control it? The second question concerns the Minister's statement. You said the drugstores would be closer to the citizen. Okay, I get it. They will be in almost every village with a population of about 3 000. Do you have an economic analysis on the cost-effectiveness of a small-town pharmacy with a population of 2.5?3 thousand, or is that a wishful thinking again? Is there any economic analysis of cost-effectiveness?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u115	As far as the first question is concerned, concerning 1%, the 1% solution It didn't work out. The level of this concentration is significantly higher, illegal concentration, hence the arbitrary definition of 4 pharmacies, not 1%. That's the difference. The second question concerned economic analyses. That's not the kind of analysis we've been running. There was simply no need to gather such information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u116	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a brief addition. Mr. Minister, I mean... Okay, if you'll excuse me. 1% concentration is exceeded and therefore we no longer control 1% We're just saying it's supposed to be four drugstores. What if this value is exceeded? What are we going to do then, some kind of element? What value will we introduce then? As a Polish country, we cannot make this concentration less than 1% So we're going to use figure 4 and we're going to control that. [[But this 1% we leave behind...]] I know we're leaving, but we're not in control because we're having difficulty with it, and we're saying that four... If they're entrepreneurial or apothecaries who cross it...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u117	That's the difference, the change we want to make in this bill. That's 1%. is crossed by business. When we control and point to what I'm going to say... [[Surveillance?]] Surveillance shall carry out an inspection. And then these institutions, these entities, are shutting down their activities while registering further entities. That's the element that we're trying to eliminate right now. If the pharmacist running the 4 pharmacy starts running the fifth, he will lose his licence and be threatened with the right to pursue his profession. That's the difference. [[And I still don't know if...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u118	Thank you very much. Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u119	First, the formal question. Mr Marshal, will it also be possible to ask the Members of the applicants if this is not possible? [[No. We just explained it with the secretariat. I cannot give the Members a vote.]] So you can't ask the Members of the applicants and once again they'll focus on... they'll only be addressed to the Minister. At the committee meeting, the applicant did not come forward. Minister, I'm going to ask you this question. First thing. Referring to the statements of my predecessor, I would point out that the Act allows the possibility of apothecaries in the form of a civil partnership or partnership. I have not heard that there is any restriction in Poland on the number of partner companies in which you are a shareholder. So we're back to square one: it's enough that these shareholders are going to change over and over and over again, and that limit in the form of 4 pharmacies is going to be over. But that's not what I wanted to ask. Mr. Minister, two questions. Tell me, what exactly is the vision of how this pharmaceutical market should look like? Because this bill, so to speak, is a bit of a bump. On the one hand we say: listen, you are a profession of public trust; pharmacy for pharmacists. On the other hand, we say: listen up, pharmacists, you can have 4 pharmacys. The immanent feature of the functioning of those engaged in public trust professions, such as the Member, the Senator, I don't know, the lawyer, is personal performance. I don't really know how a pharmacist's gonna do the job by himself when he owns four pharmacies. In four at the same time, unless one is open, the other three will be closed. That's the first question. My second question is this. You are absolutely not trying to regulate the situation related to the functioning of the pharmacy networks, which are our public enemy in this matter, and there are 19 of them, as I found out at the committee meeting. They control 30%. market, i.e. each has an average of 1.6% the market. It's not a big concentration. They will continue to be able to function and will continue to be able to enforce specific price reduction measures. So relatively, they're going to have lower margins than the other farmers entering the market, which is, let's call them, little ones, leading to 4 pharmacies. This regulation won't do any good to those little pharmacists. It will prevent them from concentrating, restrict their ability to compete with those you do not regulate today and who have been building for all these years in Poland. And my question: what is actually the vision of this pharmaceutical market in Poland, the final one that you would like to accept? And a purely practical question. This is another bill, which is a little underdeveloped, incoherent legally. It's about inheriting. According to Art. 1 point 5, paragraph 1a and 1b in Article 104 are replaced by the following: in the event of the death of a natural person... There's two recipes here. If one of the heirs is a pharmacist, then something, if one is a pharmacist, then something... But nowhere does it say what happens when he inherits a non-pharmaceutian. [[Mieczysław Augustine: He cannot inherit.]] [[He doesn't inherit.]] No, we don't understand each other. Inheritance is the right of every human being. Each drop contains assets and liabilities. I understand he can't do business, but... the pharmacy is a moving company. She can't be stopped like a moving car. And now we have e.g. That's the situation: the pharmacist dies of a heart attack, his place is occupied by his children who don't meet the statutory criteria because they're even minor... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me finish. The legislator does not regulate this situation. All he's saying is that when a pharmacist inherits, he has to do it, and in the second case, when he inherits a pharmacist who has other powers, he has to do it... What about when he inherits a non-pharmaceutian? [[It's specified in the bill.]] No, it's just not specific. Because another paragraph, another mouth. 1b, says that the heir or heir is obliged to make a statement within 12 months. But it concerns those who are pharmacists, not those who are not pharmacists. This is another logical contradiction in this recipe or simply lacks mouth. 1c, which would say that a non-pharmaceutian does not inherit, but inherits e.g. The Treasury, that's it. [[Oh! But there's a subject.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] For some compensation, and no problem. The value of the pharmacy is valued, and that's settled. Well, there's a missing paragraph saying what happens when he inherits a non-pharmaceutian. On the formal side, it is possible for him to inherit a non-pharmaceutian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u120	Okay. As far as this whole vision is concerned, because it is indeed a preliminary law to amend the pharmaceutical law in its entirety, here, regardless of who we report or present, this is our position in the Ministry. The whole pharmaceutical market, including wholesalers, product registration, etc., will be described in this major amendment. And when it comes to drugstores, we want pharmacys to be pharmacists, because we also have other professional corporations or public trust professions and for example. Law firms run lawyers. And this is the vision that we want to see happen in the future, because of the existence of the current system and the fact that this law does not touch the large network pharmacies that the senator has mentioned. I still have some data here I'd like to present. According to IMS Health data, currently 1 thousand 500 pharmacies operate in excess of 1%. So I would like to confirm here the issue of concentration. As for the small drugstores that you believe we will not be helping, I will also quote data: according to these data from all the pharmacies that closed down in 2014, 78% they were individual pharmacies. They just can't stand the competition that is right now. Therefore, thanks to this law, in my opinion, we will help these entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u121	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u122	Mr Marshal, Minister, in the current Senate term this is the second, another law, which is accompanied by very easy to notice sorrow during the discussion. About the first one today, we found out that someone actually messed up, someone, someone, somebody, he once set someone up, and she should be withdrawn. And I must say that this has been welcomed with great satisfaction. Is there gonna be a rerun now? Because this sadness is very easy to notice. We just don't know what's going on. And one more thing, that number four. Well, I think someone has a mathematical intuition, although in network systems that involve placing certain elements according to established rules, the number 5 should occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u123	You're welcome. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: There was no question.]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u124	Minister, are you aware of all the effects of this regulation, at least at the same level as the Minister for Development? Because, more specifically, you should know that in most large and medium-sized cities, the saturation of drugstores is greater than the indicator that you assume is more or less like that in the country. What will happen to my city, where a new settlement is now being built, even a small distance from the others, where nearly 3,000 people are to live? You can't put a pharmacy in there. Well, of course, on condition... Because the minister can agree in special cases... Do you, Minister, imagine that in the case of the different towns of X, Y, Z you will have to... that in the case of Mielna in the Koszalin province, where 10 times more people will have to be admitted in the season than you live there, and from me, and who knows where you will have to address the minister? This is ridiculous. I think this bill here has flaws. Second thing. Why do you ignore the issue of pharmacy points and pharmaceutical technicians in this law? This was asked at the committee meeting and there was no answer. And a question for the Minister. It's supposed to be that the pharmacists will have the opportunity to run a business. And where will they be able to start these networks with new pharmaceutical graduates? In places where it's not profitable? In places where you can't do that, when the Minister of Health left and said no more new drugstores? That's the message you want to send to the pharmacy graduates who are supposed to serve it? How do you see their future? [[You've been asking a question for five minutes.]] Very good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u125	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u126	I'll start at the end. I don't really know where Mr. Senator read in the bill that we're gonna be blocking the development of pharmacist pharmacies, since the bill generally... [[I heard it on TV from the minister.]] Okay, but I can rather refer to the bill I've come to present here. Of course, young, new pharmacists have the opportunity to start pharmacies because they will meet the criteria we want. In the case of small, smaller or, let's say, where in the season there are as if... where there are less than 3,000 inhabitants, there is still the possibility of setting up pharmacy points. We do not need to regulate this in this law, because it is regulated in pharmaceutical law. So there's no danger here that the minister will have to order something. Pharmacy business, so to speak, will be carried out by pharmacists. If it pays to create a second, third pharmacy in a given village or next to it, then they will rise. If it doesn't pay off, they won't rise. [[They won't rise.]] [[It's not gonna happen, because it's gonna be like. The fifth pharmacy.]] The fifth won't rise. [[The fifth will not rise, there will be more than 3,000 and will not rise, etc.]] No. If there's more than $3,000, it's an uprising. [[Less, less...]] [[Voice from the hall: If it's less, it won't rise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u127	Thank you. Senator Rotnicka... [[Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u128	Mr Marshal, I would just like to explain to the Minister that not only did Minister Radziwiłł say so, but also Minister of Development, who said, quote: this law actually means introducing a moratorium on opening new pharmacies in Poland. Period.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u129	Thank you. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u130	Thank you very much. Minister, I listen to your answers and I do not believe that you are the heart behind this bill, because the answers are such that I am not satisfied. Do you, as Ministry, have any research on the average number of pharmacies per host? Are they farmers or are they other economic operators? That's one thing. I'm asking, because that means that these people will lose their jobs because they're going to have to be replaced by pharmacists. Let's not make a pharmacy like a meeting place, a confessional where you can consult with a pharmacist about your illness and the medication we're supposed to take, and that's how I understand what you're saying. I realized that a pharmacist is a profession of public trust and he is the only one who guarantees the quality of service in this pharmacy. As we go further, we could say this: the profession of public trust is also the profession of a lawyer, but the lawyer may have such a clue that he wants to run a car workshop. Is that what we're gonna tell him not to do? We're not gonna stop him. [[You can't. The bill forbids.]] No, it's not illegal to run a car shop. [[A lawyer can't...]] It may not be a lawyer, but a lawyer or a psychologist, a philosopher, yes, someone like that... [[A lawyer can, without doing a lawyer...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] He's also a profession of public trust. So it just conflicts with common sense, yeah, it conflicts with common sense. This bill is wrong if according to it the successor, son or daughter, I do not know, cannot inherit a pharmacy from his father or from his mother, but can do so any other as long as he is a pharmacist and not necessarily a capable pharmacist. As you go further, you could say that you can only do the kind of work that is in line with education and knowledge, and you could even refer to the ministry, you could say that there must be doctors themselves, farmers themselves, all prepared in this matter, not in any other matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u131	It's like this. As far as the pharmacy market is concerned, we have the data. I don't have them with me, but we'll be able to send them so that this information will be provided to you. The question was... I don't really know. ♪ I'm the heart ♪ behind this bill, I may not have the right expression to express such feelings when presenting individual records and answering questions, but I really believe that this is a good bill, restoring pharmacy as a place in the health care system, not a place in the market or in the store. This is kind of a basic remark to this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u132	Thank you very much. Senator, Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u133	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I don't really know this bill, but I have questions. The first one's like this. Does the entry into force of all these provisions concerning: a The distance, b-ownership, means that the current networks will be broken down, broken down, the current owners who are not pharmacists will lose it, will it remain as it is? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: It stays as it is.]] He's staying. Good. So if it stays the way it is... From what I've read, various studies show that in cities saturation is very high. Right? There can be 10 pharmacies within a radius or within a 500 m radius. And I understand that this stays. Good. But the problem is, the Minister spoke of it. The minister said there was a problem in some smaller towns, in the countryside, and that if the pharmacist owned it, he'd be closer to these people. Why isn't he closer today? It's not like anyone's defending him to put a pharmacy in there. [[Because it doesn't pay off.]] Well, it probably doesn't pay off because why not, does it? That's enough, the networks don't open their pharmacies there either. They don't get paid either. So your answer, the statement that once the pharmacists are authorized to do so, they go to the country, it's probably called. Wishful thinking. I'd like to see something different in this bill. I'd like to see, for example. some incentives, e.g. It's a free place, some tax relief, etc. And that's not there. So I have your answer... If you don't agree with me, explain it. But I take that answer of yours as, well, I'd say, not at the heart of the matter. My second question is this. The Minister was kind to say that the government is in favour of this bill, wasn't it? Well, since the government... Isn't Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki a member of the government anymore? Has anything changed? Maybe I don't know. Well, because he sent a negative opinion. Maybe these are new customs. Would you like to explain this to the Minister? That's the second question. And a third. A lawyer, as you set an example, a person of public trust... only a lawyer can run a law firm. Okay. But I didn't hear a lawyer run four law firms, just running one. And here the pharmacist can run four drugstores. So these are not suitable examples. Finally, Minister, when I come to the pharmacy... I'll tell you honestly: I'm in pharmacies, different pharmacies, and I really don't know if they're networked or carrying. I have absolutely no idea. I'm interested in the staff, I'm interested in whether or not this pharmacist 'Cause there's only pharmacists in the pharmacy, there's no others. It will advise me, advise me, explain, quickly, handle, etc., etc. [[And the price.]] And the price, of course, it is. Therefore, well, I'm very sorry, Minister, but this whole bill smells to me. The word "smells" is for growth. Some nasty lobbying. That's it. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u134	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u135	As far as the Ministry of Development is concerned, the negative remark was that only pharmacists can open a pharmacy. And what the senator was describing here, that's what it is, isn't it? [[Well, it's not just...]] At the meeting of the Council of Ministers, this comment was presented as the only one. This was also the result of my information that we are in favour of the bill discussed here. As for how the market is going to evolve... We are currently dealing with such a situation that this concentration in large towns is caused by networks, leading both wholesalers and pharmacies. And this is the phenomenon that causes such a monopolization of the market through networks, and yet not yet paying taxes. And that's what we want to eliminate. Therefore, the creation of small pharmacies Of course, when it is profitable, it will be possible to give pharmacists such a right, with incentives that are likely to come from these small towns, from mayors or from owners of premises where such pharmacy should be built, with discounts on rent, etc. This is no longer the subject of this bill. Newization... As I say, this is a protective part or a major amendment to pharmaceutical law, where the relationship between wholesalers, pharmacies and manufacturers or drug suppliers will be described. [[Senator Marek Borowski: May I ask?)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u136	Yes, of course, please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u137	Minister, regarding the actions of your Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki... Minister, I've spent a lot of time in the government and I know they have different opinions, of course. And whether at the meeting of the committee or the Council of Ministers such discrepancies are reported. All I'm saying is that once the government makes a decision, it's a joint decision. Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki may disagree with this, but he cannot send other documents here. And if he sends it, that means he's deeply convinced that it's just an unfair bill. That's it. You said that... you're back in the village business. Namely, you said the mayors would give some relief. I'm the one asking why they don't give tonight. Why aren't they doing it today, and after this bill comes into force, they're gonna do it? I don't understand. It's completely unrelated. Finally, I would like to say that one rational thought in the Minister's mind here I have noticed. Namely, it is about the merger of wholesalers and pharmacies, which, of course, is easier in the case of networks. You could look for another solution, something called demonopoliation. In the United States, as you know, a number of companies have been legally defocused. Right? They just had to sell some of their assets. And if we were to say, "Please, you're a wholesaler, you can't have drugstores, and if you run drugstores, you can't run wholesale. You've got some time to deal with this case, and you've got to get rid of it, you've got to sell it. But it's not here, it's going a whole other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u138	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u139	Mr. Senator, this is almost the way it is now, but there are illegal activities that this current law cannot handle. [[And this new guy's gonna be okay?]] Well, it's obviously an attempt to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u140	Senator Stanisławek, I ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will give you a brief reply because the Minister was not at the committee meeting. This issue was presented by Minister Tombarkiewicz. Why 4 pharmacys and 3,000 people? Because that is the case in most European countries. This is the trend across Europe, in this direction it goes. That was the Minister's answer. Now I have a question for the King's Minister. What I lack in this bill is the possibility of affecting wholesalers who do not sell drugs to small pharmacies or sell them in packages. That's not the issue that's moving around here. That's one thing. Is that gonna be settled? Second thing. Will the Ministry of Health support e.g. Senator's project introducing the principle of doctor's office? Because I don't know if you know, but the networks are also buying medical offices and we won't have Polish medical offices in years. Will the Ministry of Health support such an initiative? And the most important question. The Minister once again said that legislation is not working. Once again, we are dealing with a law that tries to regulate something, but does not increase supervision. Tell me what pharmaceutical surveillance is for. What do you mean, pharmaceutical surveillance can't handle 1%? ? I'm perfectly familiar with pharmaceutical surveillance. Someone's the president of the voivodship or whatever it's called, and the wife runs four drugstores because she has property separation. And her daughter runs four drugstores, too, because she has property separation. Is that possible? Isn't that the weakness of pharmaceutical supervision? We're adopting new laws. And we're producing a lot of these laws. Instead of strengthening surveillance. Don't you think the Minister should step up surveillance rather than introduce new laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u142	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u143	Surveillance can be strengthened when it is defined as if the subject matter of this supervision, i.e. When it's described, what we're supervising. Despite the fact that in this current plan there is a ban on the operation of wholesalers including pharmacies, it is widely violated by the fact that, so to speak, network companies. Entities shall be registered under a slightly changed name, but they shall have one owner. The situation you were talking about, of course, is unacceptable, but... Yeah, where's the local surveillance? That's it. [[Thank you very much. I'm asking you a question...]] [[Excuse me, what's the next question? What about the principle of doctor's office? Will the Ministry support that?]] I'm sure we'll lean on it. I can't talk about acceptance right now without knowing the project. [[Thank you very much. And the impact on wholesalers regarding... pharmacy e.g. She can't buy the cure. I have this kind of interpellation to myself.]] Yeah, it's updating... which means it's going to be in this big novel of pharmaceutical law, which is the next bill. [[When can this big novel be processed?]] She's being processed. I'm not gonna give you an exact deadline right now, but it's definitely gonna be this year. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u144	Thank you very much. I'm asking you a question from the senator. Terminian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u145	Minister, I would like to remind you of this question concerning the article. 104. The Minister didn't tell me who actually could inherit this pharmacy when he wasn't a pharmacist, and what happened to that inheritance mass in the form of this pharmacy. That's my question. Because the bill doesn't regulate it, except that it says who can inherit it. And if someone else inherits, then what? And my second question is this. In the discussion at the committee meeting, there were such indications from the opinions that came to us, and there were a lot of them... There was information about possible damages claims against us, Poland, the government, and it was from companies both international and national, so that here I do not define where this capital came from. Do you, as Ministry, have any assessment of the impact of this regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u146	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u147	This regulation does not generate such effects, as if such threats, because those entities which are at the moment are not affected by the law. So it's a threat... I don't know what level this threat would be at when we're not talking about them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u148	Minister, maybe I'll just ad vocem. The letter of the Israeli ambassador has been received, in which he officially informs that this law violates the trade agreement between Poland and Israel, and recalls the example of a company, a particular company, I do not remember the name of this company at the moment, but a pharmaceutical company, which today has some pharmacies and is at the opening stage of another 15. Because this bill comes into force, they won't open these drugstores anymore, for example. They rented pharmacy space for the next ten years, hired some people. Well, there's a lot of stuff they've done, getting ready to create these drugstores, and we're changing their legal status. And that's an example. Besides, there were similar arguments in the discussion among Polish pharmacists who have 7 or 5 pharmacies: and what are we supposed to do now that we have started the procedure, since we have already rented the space, since we are in the process? And it always takes a while, because no one opens a pharmacy every day. And that's the kind of claim. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: The applications submitted are the same...]] There should be some effect of regulation...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u149	The proposals submitted at the moment are also being dealt with in the same way, according to the existing law. Therefore, even if the pharmacy starts this type of activity after the law has been introduced and the application has been made before, it will be considered.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u150	Minister, let me disagree, because this was discussed at the committee meeting and it was simply said that unfortunately this would not be possible, because the law has a short vacathio legis and at the time of its entry into force all procedures which did not end in the resolution will be cancelled. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: No...]] Because today it's based on promenades, and there was a discussion that the promenade isn't kind of binding.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u151	Promesa isn't binding, but it's enough to start this process.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u152	Failure to consider the application until the Act enters into force means that this pharmacy will not arise. At least that was the discussion at the committee meeting. This is very important... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: I was not at the committee meeting...]] ...the case, because from the point of view of the impact assessment of regulation... These claims seem to be large. And the other thing is the article. 104. I'm gonna ask you to explain the inheritance issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u153	Inheritance? The inheritance mass is hereditary, it can be sold. [[Mr. Minister, all right...]] The pharmacy can be sold. [[...but as I pointed out earlier, the pharmacy is not a car that can be stopped. Imagine a pharmacy that employs 10 people. These people need to be fired, somebody has to give them their statements, somebody has to pay the outstanding ZUS, taxes. You can't lock it up, you can say thank you, I'm leaving and it won't be. It's all going on, and according to the bill, it can't go on.]] For this process, so to speak, closing, shutting down operations are 2 years and this period should be enough to cash in the pharmacy. If he's hiring 10 people, I understand he's also hiring a pharmacist, which means he's already buying this pharmacy. [[Oh, no, the pharmacist died, and he's the one who hired those 10 people. He's dead, he's gone, and he's...]] A non-pharmaceutian... [[...son of a pharmacist who is e.g. A lawyer and he's...]] Okay, but those 10 people weren't pharmacists... [[No, people, employees.]] It's got to sell that pharmacy in two years. [[The workers, they did it there, like they did at work...]] [[Question and answer.]] He's the one who has to sell that pharmacy in two years. [[Why? I mean, the value...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u154	But I'm sorry, Mr. Senator... Now, I'd like to ask Senator Augustine a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u155	Minister, I have two questions, a little bit as part of the follow-up to this question I had previously asked, and in part referring to the question she asked... or to the question that Senator Rotnicka just raised. This law does not have a good assessment of the impact of regulation, especially as regards the impact on the labour market. What would you say to those who are now studying pharmacy? Where are they gonna be able to find a job after this bill's in place? I'm just skipping the question that maybe somebody's gonna retire. New drugstores will hardly be available. I believe the Minister for Development, and the Minister for Health, your boss, who said no new drugstores. That's a quote. Where are these people supposed to find a job when they're already in drugstores today... when they can only be run by pharmacists and they're already there? How will this affect the labour market? Have you estimated how many people are going to unemployment and so on?? I'd like an answer. Second thing. The issue of monopolization has been raised on several occasions, justifying this law. I would ask you to develop this because at the committee meeting it was said that this monopoly is that we have just over 400 networks in Poland. This is the alleged monopoly and this alleged concentration. But there are more powerful networks, there are 19 of them, which in total have 30... Would you mind telling the minister how much is a percentage for one of these drugstores? 1,5% ? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because 2% Not anymore. This is a concentration and monopolization according to the Ministry of Health as a basic justification for the bill? I would like to refer to this and justify where this monopolism is and where this concentration is.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u156	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u157	I'll give you the numbers then. The market share of 5 pharmacies in the pharmacies market currently stands at 44%. The fastest market expansion is carried out by large networks operating more than 50 pharmacies, which controlled 14% in 2014 the market, and in the last 2 years... there have been 9 such networks in 2014, in the present is 14... before 2016 there were 14 such networks in 2014... It is estimated that the number will increase to 20 this year. [[And it's 17.]] 14 was in 2016, this year will be 20. [[This is, Minister, after 1.5% market share, if it divides 30 by...]] But I don't know what you share, sir. I'll be honest with you. [[30%...]] [[But I'm asking you a question.]] [[Thank you.]] [[Senator, you're spinning.]] [[I'm asking you a question. Senator Grodzki...]] [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister...]] [[But the Minister didn't answer my second question...]] The labour market. [[The situation of future pharmacists.]] [[I'm sorry. Then let's go back to Senator Augustine's question.]] Excuse me. I don't understand about the disorder, any disturbance in the pharmacist's labour market... This market is not filled with pharmacists at the moment, not all drugstores employ pharmacists. Pharmacy usually hires one person with this title. Therefore, giving the pharmacist the opportunity to run a pharmacy will definitely improve their situation. Talking about unemployment is not allowed because this law does not regulate the existing system, that is, we do not affect this system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u158	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear, Minister, that although you declare that you are the heart behind this bill, the impression and the speech of the body say otherwise. Pharmacy is a difficult market. You said one dangerous sentence. That these disturbances in regulated concentration have occurred recently. Please tell me whether you, as Ministry of Justice, have notified the Ministry of Justice or the prosecution of an infringement. I'm asking because the ministry... For a year and a half of your government, you have not appointed a major pharmaceutical inspector. Mr. Niewot, otherwise a good professional, is still in charge. It's weird, it's amazing, and it explains a lot of perturbation in the pharmaceutical market. The chief pharmaceutical inspector should have been appointed long ago. And my question is, why isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u160	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u161	I don't know how to refer this to the bill, to the proposed bill. The extraction procedure is what it is. I can't answer that question. These disturbances in the pharmaceutical market have been in recent years, but recent years since the first pharmaceutical law law. We're trying to modify, regulate the elements that are malfunctioning right now. I don't know if all the questions... [[Why hasn't a pharmaceutical inspector been appointed?]] I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u162	Senator Dobrzyński, I ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the duty officer has all the powers he has called in. So that it doesn't matter from the formal, legal side. Minister, is that correct? I have a question about these 500 meters. I'm sure you've met with such questions. Let's say that in some small town one of the drugstores is located relatively in the center. If these 500 meters were kept, the next one would have to be located on the outskirts. Don't you think it should dictate the market more, or it should reduce the distance? Nobody's gonna locate another pharmacy, e.g. 50 meters from the existing one. In my opinion, these 500 meters are far too much. [[That's a good point.]] What is the reason that we have 500 m here, not e.g. 200 m, more or less?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u164	That is the question I have addressed to a Member of the applicant who cannot answer because... [[But the Member does not attend the meeting.]] [[Voice from the room: Participates, but cannot answer.]] [[This MP doesn't have a microphone on? What's the problem?]] [[Voice from the room: In the rules.]] The Member may not formally...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u165	It's a rule problem. Senator Staron, I ask you a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, please... [[Can we speak on a formal matter?]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u166	Mr. Marshal, there is a difficulty because the Minister cannot answer questions he does not know how to answer. You know these answers from the Member. Why don't we take a five-minute break? That's what I'd ask for. So you gentlemen can consult? Then our discussion will be more fruitful.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u167	The Minister may reply in writing. There's a formula. [[But then...]] I propose using this option.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u168	We'll answer in writing, then. [[I'll wait two weeks for that.]] [[But at least you'll get the answer.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u169	Okay, let's finish a series of questions. [[As far as I know, there was another Deputy Minister at the committee meeting.]] [[He's different every time.]] Mr. Marshal, we're at a questioning stage. [[I understand, but could you get the last one...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, the minister is authorized, so... I don't know. Minister, you can consult... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Zbigniew Król: This is not possible because Minister Tombarkiewicz flew to Gdansk.]] [[Exactly.]] Minister, you can consult... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is it a minute or a two-minute break? [[But maybe he's on his own.]] ...or answer in writing. [[In writing.]] But let's finish the questions. [[Exactly.]] Senator Staron, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u170	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I was thinking: we make regulations to serve people, and all the time I hear that a pharmacy is for a pharmacist, not for a patient, not for a client, but for a pharmacist. I have questions. Very short. First of all, I would like you to tell me, in human terms, what is the ratio of legis of this new law, this amendment, because I do not see any good sides to these norms that I have read. You said one very important thing. The law doesn't do well. We have a problem with enforcement, and the lotion for enforcement problems is not an amendment, it is a proper execution, proper supervision, compliance with the law. I also heard a senator's question here... Indeed, it may be worthwhile to interest certain authorities in what is happening and not to change the law, and in this way, to introduce an amendment. I'd also like to know what's going to happen to the conclusions... and I've met with a situation like this, just like the senator, he's the only one talking about the network, and I'm talking about a normal entrepreneur like that. Let's just say there's going to be a center in a small town. The entrepreneur had already rented a place there six months earlier and invested because he wanted to open a pharmacy there, but he wouldn't do it because it would open in a few months, and the vacathio legis of this law is 30 days. Then he won't. What's the big deal? And in the case of heirs, when it comes to the inheritance mass, that's the way to a particular expropriation. After all, in a situation where a pharmacist dies, his child, who may have worked with him for years at that pharmacy, but who is not a pharmacist, will never be able to drive this pharmacy. You said, "If there's a pharmacist on the job, you'd better give it to him." Yeah, but it's a form. It's a prescriptive expropriation. In addition, I am very concerned about a provision that is in this bill. Well, I often meet with the fact that where we have freedom, or where there is consent, there is a deviation from a certain principle that you create. You say that: below 3,000 is not allowed, 500 m... In certain cases it is different. So you set the criteria, but you say you can agree. And then the mayor, the mayor... [[Voices from the room: Minister.]] The consent referred to in paragraph shall be given. 3e requires a positive opinion on the merits of omission. The Minister agrees, but this local self-government officer gives a positive or negative opinion. [[But that's an opinion.]] [[It's in the justification...]] That's the opinion, yes, but that's the opinion of that man down there, on the basis of which consent is given. In my opinion, that's a very simple way to... I don't know if it's corruption, but it might be. So it's about that kind of legislation. [[You're welcome...]] And one more question, I think this is the last one. I'd like to know if... 'Cause you're saying just a pharmacist. Well, it should actually be that only a construction engineer runs a construction plant, that only a mechanic or a gardener carries out other specific activities. However, I would like to ask: do. A German or a French pharmacist can open a pharmacy? Because a Polish entrepreneur can't. Can a pharmacist who is not a Polish pharmacist do that? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Zbigniew Król: If he has the authority to conduct business in Poland, then of course he can.]] Thank you for seeing me. I'd ask you to answer from the beginning... For me, the most important thing is the ratio legis of this law, the actual one that concerns people, the prices of medicines, is the good that is to be. Because if there's a housing estate in a distance of less than 500 m, where 2,000 800 inhabitants will live, there won't be a pharmacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u171	I mean, this element or, let's say, the subject for the patient, we've devoted the first part of the discussion... [[But you didn't say anything.]] I said about... [[None of these questions about ratio legis, such actual ratio legis, you didn't answer in my opinion...]] For a patient? [[For the patient. Not for the pharmacist, because we know that.]] Okay. [[But for the patient.]] Then let me repeat, Senator... [[I thought they were the drugstores.]] Let me repeat, Senator, in that case. Here, first of all, we sanction the professional person who provides pharmaceutical advice. He doesn't give today because there aren't many pharmacists running drugstores. This element is not properly implemented. These are sales points, not quite the pharmacy within the meaning of the health care institution. Therefore, this element is positive, because it will be much more likely to receive such advice than it is today. [[May I perform here, Mr. Marshal?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u172	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u173	How do you force a pharmacist? And today, the pharmacists work in pharmacies. They usually sell drugs, but they also... well, not just... I do now. The pharmacist, I understand, opens the pharmacy, but he can hire people, too. Right? In the light of these provisions. So, what guarantee do we have that from now on the patient's approach will be different? It's gonna be exactly the same rule, just at the head of this pharmacy, which is the owner of... Because I understand it's changing. At least that's what the amendment says. That only the owner changes, that it will not be anyone other than the pharmacist. And the rules of the pharmacy may remain the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u174	We'll probably stick to our opinions on this. However, I believe that the assignment of this workshop to a person who must meet certain criteria and have powers will result in greater commitment, also as regards this element, which is not the only element. What's going on in Poland in these little pharmacies... You can barely run a business there. No meds, because just big, network wholesalers don't sell them to these drugstores. Changing the whole system and creating this group of pharmacies will also change the wholesale system. The second amendment of pharmaceutical law will also go in this direction. The point is just to emphasize it. However, the proximity of the pharmacy in these smaller towns And deconcentration, as opposed to what's happening right now. This law will make it bigger than it is today. This is another element that also applies to the patient. [[It's just a really last sentence, 'cause...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u175	Okay, Senator. Of course, yeah, I'm just... Because right now there's a dialogue, and now it's time to ask... [[I see.]] ...and the answer. Yes, I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u176	Good. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I'm just finishing up... But it's hard to agree by reading the amendment that it's about concentration, because we have this state that is today. Nothing changes exactly. Nobody loses any authority. They're the same drugstores. Saturation... Please note that in the last six months, when it was said to introduce this law, the wholesale of these drugstores did not arise, I think 1% came, if I remember correctly, of the new drugstores. And all the others will work. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is not a law that talks about concentration, because it would be completely different, and some kind of supervision, as Prof. Stanisławek said. She's talking about something else. All she's talking about is that she owns the pharmacy right now...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u177	Senator, I'm sorry, but you're having a discussion. [[Thank you very much.]] There'll be time for discussion. [[Debate.]] I'm gonna open the discussion in a minute, and it's gonna be a moment when it's gonna be... Now we are at the stage: the question 'answer'. Please, if the senator has a question, then... I don't want to interrupt. You're welcome. [[I mean, no, I just meant...]] But the question is... Question? If there's a question, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u178	The Minister said... Where is this defocus in this situation that is today, in the current situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u179	I see. Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u180	I've quoted these data, which suggests that 78% all closed pharmacies are individual pharmacies. And there were more pharmacies... pharmacies that contained more than 50 pharmacies... 9 in 2014, 14 in 2016 and 20 such networks now. So that indicates concentration, not concentration as if it were business.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u181	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u182	Minister, you talk a lot about this concentration, that it will happen in a situation where in the main voivodship cities we are saturated with pharmacies above the limit. And I don't really understand how defocus would happen, and why these big chains, wholesalers would suddenly want to talk more humanly to these little pharmacists. I don't know why you say that. And that's kind of my first question. Remember, 70% The wholesale market is in the hands of 3 companies, notabene of Polish companies, which I add on the margin. And my second question for you. Minister, am I... Senator Staroń has already asked such a question, but I would like to extend it. It is a question à about those foreign pharmacists who have authority in France, Germany, the Czech Republic or elsewhere. They will be able to open in Poland for these 4 drugstores. Is this gonna be verified somehow, and is this gonna be included with those drugstores that they already have on the other side of the border, or is it gonna be just us that these German pharmacists are gonna be able to open these four drugstores? I would like to point out that they have a much stronger capital base. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. 'Cause they're building this capitalism over there longer than we are, and in a fight with our pharmacists, especially the young, they're like a tank. The question is: will they be able to open up for these 4 drugstores in Poland? [[They will be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u183	Well, if they have the authority to operate a pharmacist in Poland, they will be able to open up. Thank you. [[A, German pharmacists will be able to open pharmacy in Poland.]] And the question of defocusing those wholesalers, like this... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u184	We are in the European Union, Senator. After all, we all know that we are in the European Union. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there's a free movement of people... What are we supposed to do now? Are there any more questions for the Minister? You're welcome. No. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of the first speaker, and the first speaker is Senator Jerzy Wcisla. You're welcome. Yes, please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I hope this bad bill doesn't last, but in case it does, I'd like to make two applications. Today's discussion shows that excessive willingness to regulate can destroy more than give positive values. I live in Warmia and Mazury, it is a voivodship which has the highest degree of water coverage in relation to the entire area. What are the consequences of this bill? Well, take as an example the town of Ryn, which has 3,000 2 inhabitants or 2,000 998 inhabitants, depending on whether the child is born or someone is coming down. Anyway, there's a population of 3,000. Ryn's lying on two lakes. Along one lake, about 400 m wide, i.e. you can imagine that standing on one shore of the lake, you can see a pharmacy 400 m from us in a straight line There's a path that's 4,000 200 meters. So to get to the pharmacy 400 meters away, you have to walk 4,000 200 meters. Like a grandmother who's on one side of the lake, is supposed to be able to walk those 400 meters, walking actually 4,000 200 meters? And we can imagine a lot of these situations. A highway that crosses two neighborhoods or two parts of a town. A river where there's a ferry crossing that disappears. It's normal in Żuławy. The hoods are on the other side of the fender. There was a ferry crossing. The crossing has been terminated and the residents have no connection. They have to go to a bridge that's 12 kilometers away. But the distance between these two towns is 200 m and you won't be able to put a pharmacy in the other village because there's a limit of 500 m. So we bring you to change in art. 1 part concerning paragraph. 3b and distance, which is: the distance between the entrances of the pharmacies in the straight line shall be at least 500 m and change the words in the straight line to the shortest public transport route. It's clear, understandable, practical, because it's not about seeing this pharmacy, it's about getting into it. These examples, which I gave from life taken, prove that the criterion of availability is not a straight line. The second proposal was already discussed by Senator Przemysław Terminski. We're going into living matter with this bill. Something's still going on, someone's got a pharmacy, they're building a second pharmacy, they're modernising the pharmacy. I was approached by the owner of the pharmacy, which is already being run by the second generation. It bought a new place because in the first one it is impossible to provide accessibility for people with disabilities. The bad luck was that the new location was less distant from the second pharmacy than the bill was supposed to. She's not gonna be able to build that pharmacy. The Minister says that the possibility of her starting this pharmacy will not disappear, but other senators say that at committee meetings it was said that it would not have the opportunity to open a pharmacy. So I suggest In the mouth. 3d which, in certain situations, excludes the application of the provisions set out in this Law, in which there are two points, add point 3 which will apply this exemption. This point 3 might be such that these rules do not apply when the application for authorisation is made by an entity who is in the process of transferring the pharmacy to another address or creating a new pharmacy and is able to demonstrate that the transfer or creation process started before the adoption of this Act. I think this is fair to those who have undertaken this process, and it does not interfere with the objectives of the misty defined by the creators of this idea of a new pharmaceutical law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. Have you made these amendments yet? [[Okay, here we go.]] Good. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Let me take 10 minutes to try to convince you that it may be worth rejecting this law and waiting for a major revision of the pharmaceutical law, which will affect the real and not the artificial problems that this project is facing. The real problem of the pharmaceutical industry is drug re-export. The real problem of the pharmaceutical industry is the struggle to include drugs in the reimbursement list. The real problem of the pharmaceutical industry is a large concentration of wholesalers. 3 wholesalers support 80% the market. There's not a word about these real problems in the bill. It is, as Senator Dobrzyński mentioned, 500 m. And you have to imagine an old lady with cocoarrosis or a hip replacement who's gonna have to walk 500 meters or so. It is clear that the bill is treated as an unwanted fruit, so as not to say worse. She was created in the parliamentary office, she was proceded in the deregulation committee. As the name suggests, this committee is supposed to care for economic freedom and, in the meantime, stiffens and Petrifies the pharmaceutical market. The Minister of Development was against, the Consumer Protection Office No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Deputy Prime Minister Gowin and 8 members of the PiS voted against this law. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not facts meaningless. It is a law strongly oriented on pharmacists I don't want to use the word "lobbing," because every environment has the right to lobby. And completely unfocused on the patient. First you promoted it Minister Łanda, yesterday it was Minister Tombarkiewicz, today the Minister of the King who was left, so to speak, exposed to food. I think it's only the kindness of the Senate that we've been asking questions in the same way as the Senate. You must know. Maybe you don't all know. In 16 major cities there will be no new pharmacy, because saturation exceeds the limit: a pharmacy of 3,000 inhabitants. Young farmers who are to be beneficiaries of this system will not be, because they will have no place to open pharmacys. Will they open it in the field? This issue has been raised many times. If they treat their business as business, I don't think so. In the bill in a surprisingly specific way, as my colleagues emphasized, the principle of economic freedom is broken because only a pharmacist can open a pharmacy. On this basis, Only a doctor could open a hospital, only a shipbuilder The shipyard, only the railwayman The railroad, only the viewer TV, although this might be a problem, because public television hasn't been watched much lately. The right of inheritance is disturbed here, as was also mentioned. If the child is not a pharmacist or is not of age, the family is doomed to sell property that is probably collected for generations. The question arises as to why the chief pharmaceutical inspector is still not appointed, who might have regulated the market without this small law. He's only been on duty for a year and a half. The question arises as to where the arbitrary number 4 came from. If there's four drugstores, it'll be fine, and if there's five, it's bad. Or should it be 8 or 20? How about two or one? The argument that the pharmacist will be closer to the patient is a completely missed argument. If he has four drugstores, he'll have to deal with deliveries, settlements, taxes, etc. Then he'll be like this. Just a businessman who's now someone who's not a pharmacist and hires pharmacists at a pharmacy. And it's still gonna be the same. Then the pharmacist will have to be employed in each pharmacy and he won't care if it's owned by a pharmacist or someone else's profession. We've already mentioned the wholesalers. Special cases, such as summer resorts, where data on permanent check-in will allow opening, say, 1 or 2 pharmacies, and during the season there will be 20,000 summers, but there will still be 1 pharmacy and giant queues. This is not at all addressed in this project, and it concerns the whole range of even coastal or small towns in the mountains. [[Mr. Senator, what are you saying?]] It's... People get sick. Go, Robert, to the hospital in Kolobrzeg during the season You'll see a hecatomba. [[Well, three, four months are open. No, that's right... three, four months are open...]] [[But we're not discussing it now, Senator.]] 95% in this sector It has been built for years and works relatively well, and the real problems I have been talking about are completely not raised in this project. President Reagan always said that America's driving force is healthy economy, and it will be healthy as long as the government interferes with it as little as possible. These are sacred words, also for such a specific market as the pharmaceutical market. Unfortunately, the drugs will go too far. Maybe not immediately, because the regulation applies to new pharmacies, but if we lead to fragmentation of this market And that's gonna happen. This position of retailers in negotiations with wholesalers will be even weaker. Already today we have hard data that in online pharmacies, so-called. Online, medications are about 5, 10 to 15% cheaper and in some hours up to 50% It's cheaper. This is clearly beneficial for a patient who, crossing the door of a pharmacy, does not really know whether it is networked, whether it is single or private, or whether it is any other. His 'cause it's the patient's point of view. I don't care. This situation is a bit of a story. fibrous machines in Manchester, which stormed against large textile machines, also resemble the history of small shops versus supermarkets. Only then the authorities behaved rationally. And whether we like it or not, whether we like the course of history, larger textile machines have won and hypermarkets have a greater advantage. In this case, power, stimulated by apothecaries, tries to protect the interests of pharmacists at all costs at the expense of patients. And I don't think it's going anywhere. Strange this nostalgia for the Polish People's Republic, which wipes out another law, and this blind belief that regulation This, in quotes, central planning committee It will deal with the industry, which is working quite well under conditions of almost free market. Let's hope it's not the same as in the Sahara joke, where there's no sand, like the PRL will rule there. There's probably gonna be drugs, but it's almost certain that they're gonna make it. And that is why I urge you to call the Minister in the end. And he's got it in his power. The chief pharmaceutical inspector, even with more prerogatives, so that... and nothing happens for a year if, as the Minister has declared, there is a major pharmaceutical amendment. And this is a very complicated market, as you know Prof. Stanisławek, the doctors present and probably a little bit. [[Patients, too.]] And let's skip this bill because it's really from the patient's point of view... and the old Roman maxim says Salus aegroti Suprema lex, the good of the sick with the highest law. And from the patient's point of view, this bill brings nothing. The optimists will say she's neutral, the pessimists will say she's harmful. Anyway, it doesn't do any good. That's why I'm filing a motion to reject it in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Something short of applause.]] And now please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have to say that when a man works in lawmaking as many years as I do, he's seen a lot of different situations, but this one looks completely curiosity. We cannot see, not only us, but also the constitutional ministers cannot see, a reliable assessment of the impact of the regulation on the law, which concerns all Poles, which concerns a market worth about PLN 30 billion, the mass of enterprises, a huge group of workers. There are no reliable effects of regulation. We're going blind and we're supposed to believe that this is about mythical concentration. What kind of distraction? That's a completely false argument. And if she is, it's not in this place we're talking about here, not in the case of pharmacies. The Minister spoke here. Okay, maybe the minister didn't have data like me, but they don't differ much that these networks, these larger networks, because there are over 400 of them at all, there are 19 and together, they have 30% in total. pharmacies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 1.5% each. Maybe some are bigger, but still, as far as I know, none of them have even 7%. market share. Do you know of a law that is designed to prevent monopolism and which is guarded by the office specifically appointed to do so? The Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is against this law. Doesn't that make you think? The UOKiK sees the very bad consequences of this submission. Similarly, the Minister of Development, who says, well, where is the calculation of the effects on the labour market, where is the responsibility for pharmacy as a direction of education for people who today have no significant prospects? They can, Minister, of course, find employment in sub-stations in pharmacies, but that is all that can be offered to them in the coming years. And the worst part is, for clients, This is not my opinion, both the UOKiK and the Ministry of Development is They say The result will be an increase in the price of medicines. If these ministries, offices, led by professionals, express such an opinion through their officials, how can you go to Poles and parliamentarians with such a project? Plus, without consulting? This is amazing and unbelievable. It feels like that's not what it's about. This justification is rather a pretext, this lack of calculations is not a coincidence, and disregarding the consequences for the customer is probably included in the cost. 'Cause I don't think anybody's gonna say that a better negotiating situation is gonna be the owner of four pharmacies than the owner of 40 pharmacies. You're referring to other countries. Please tell me if, even if you consider differences in income, there are higher prices of medicines in those countries that you are referring to. We're gonna have the same effect. How much higher is someone who runs four drugstores than someone who runs a lot of drugstores? This is obvious for anyone who, for example, has encountered the business of running a pharmacy. And Mr. Marshal Borowski is right. It smells bad. Really. You seem to... you're a marshal here and you know it. We bumped into each other a couple of times... This is your business. I'm sure the marshal remembers it well. So are the doctors who are here. We've collided here several times with the enormous pressures of apothecary corporations in other situations. And now you could say that these groups have their holiday, they have their victory. I would also like to raise an issue which is very important, which was mentioned by Senator Staron and which needs to be highlighted here. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not only pro-corporate, but also pro-corruption. I can't believe they're not gonna make drugstores like the Minister of Health said. They will be created under special conditions, which are written here. All we're gonna have to do is convince the mayor and the mayor with the right arguments. Maybe someone in the ministry. Is that what this is about? This bill certainly brings with it such threats, and it is not just my opinion. You're ignoring them. You could say, okay, there are state services that will counter it. Are we supposed to believe that if today they can't ensure the application of the law in terms of 1% , in terms of concentration? The Minister spoke so lightly here about not complying with the law in this regard and that is why it is as it is. But he represents the government. If you are aware of cases of non-compliance, then I would remind you that there are proper bodies, well equipped with tools to counter it. A public official comes out here and says: yes, the law is notoriously violated in this regard and we are not dealing with it. We, the state, us, the government which I represent. Really amazing. The Minister of Development seems to be right. If we use the right tools, as Senator President said, in terms of pharmaceutical supervision and the right services, so as to ensure that what needs to be done is respected, we would have the result achieved, without negatives, which are too visible. I appeal, ladies and gentlemen, not to accept this bill. As Professor Grodzki said, you are announcing that there will be a major amendment of the law in this area and that it is really going to respond to the problems that are actually affecting this sector. Would anything bad happen if you thought about it? The amendments I make, Mr. Marshal, may lead to such thinking. They will certainly prevent phenomena that are highly disturbing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u190	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here again we have a law that applies to practically all Poles, because each of us uses and will one day use the services of pharmacy and pharmacist. The name of the pharmacy for the pharmacist given to this law actually reflects the essence of what you want to do. And yet our job is to create a pharmacy for a patient, not for a pharmacist. The apothecary does his job and, of course, needs to be created clear, clear rules for running the pharmacy, but not a creation in which he would be a dominant person, deciding on a number of issues that neither the patient nor other instruments operating in the pharmaceutical market will have an impact at all. The Minister in his statement... During yesterday's very long and turbulent discussion, we repeated how the mantra would benefit from this question: how would the patient benefit? This is a fundamental question, Minister. Well, if we're doing anything... when we're preparing the bill that we're presenting to the High Senate, we're always asking ourselves the fundamental question: why are we doing this and who is it supposed to be for? And during the senators' speeches, you could hear here who this solution probably serves. I'm sure it wasn't the patients. That's what I'm saying. The Minister says that this bill will create a large number of pharmacies in small towns, outskirts, etc. Therefore, I have a simple question: why haven't they been created today, Minister? I asked if there was a calculation for the financial perspective of such pharmacies. Because if we want a pharmacy to be built in small towns, we need to create a clear, clear system of support for a pharmacy activity in a given village. And the state in this situation is throwing a guy who can't swim, into the water, and you say, "Now go." Plus, there's a 20-foot wave. And you ask, what, you didn't make it? You're saying this man is going to create a pharmacy in a small village, since he's not at all... i.e. when his pharmacy activity in a small village is immediately doomed to failure. You are dreaming of the 18th or 19th-century plant that Professor Grodzki was talking about. Fibers in the Islands also dreamed that machines would not be introduced into the factory. And you dream that, as part of your mission, because of the function of public trust, a pharmacist will open a pharmacy in rural areas, give advice, come to him, ask him whether this medicine is good or bad, whether it's worth taking it or not. These are, Mr. Minister, I apologize for calling them 19th-century bullshit! Well, if you don't connect two things today, knowledge and finance, and you're just gonna take a few things that you can call, that I'm gonna say so nicely, with dreams, it's gonna end in dreams. No theoretical preparation, except that... well, that's what I asked at the committee meeting, but the minister wasn't there then, and that's what was being raised here. We've got 1%. , and it remains, i.e. the concentration threshold must not be exceeded. The Lord answers: well, we can't deal with it, but now we can do it, because it'll probably be easier to count to four. Well, I'm sure you do, but there's gonna be thousands of ways to make it 5 or 6 or even 8 pharmacies. And then what do we say? Well, we're not dealing with 4, so what do you say we put in a square root or some other number? This is a method that leads nowhere! Here we need to think in a comprehensive way, concerning an important market, in the context of health, in the context of the mission that pharmacists are actually going to perform in this market, and the launch of instruments. And that's what I was talking about at the committee meeting. I mean. I personally, as a great supporter of the free market, believe that in terms of health protection, including all that is involved in pharmaceutical services, it is necessary to take care of the market in some way and regulate it, and I also sign under it. But you're not regulating the market, you're regulating it. You say, if you need a small resort, you'll write an application, you'll start the whole procedure... That's not how it's done in normal democratic countries! There are criteria, procedures and so on in the law, whether the regulation contains criteria, procedures, etc. And once again, you're creating a procedure that leads to clientelism. Our master's client, right. And you want to implement this idea when implementing this law. There is another element that was so often raised yesterday during the discussion. The representatives of the pharmaceutical world outside of the pharmacy government say this: "Well, if you are already introducing this country, do one thing. Introduce the possibility of real inheritance and make this law work today either until the end of our business or for a long period of time. This was introduced in some countries over a period of 5 and 10 years. Someone made a decision about this kind of business, started a family business... More than 90% of this business is in Polish hands, and you want to break it in the name of unclear goals. The goal you've outlined has nothing to do with reality. You want to restore dreams that will never come true. Because if these were dreams that had a chance to be realized, you could say "okay." And now you're taking away the dreams of those people who invested their own money, built a project in the form of how many pharmacies there are, and they don't have the ability to inherit. You are making Poland a negative example again. Do not invest in Poland, because within 30 days after the signature of the President, a law comes in, which completely changes the law. This is not how you build a good opinion about Poland, about the stability of the law. And the stability of the law, especially in conjunction with care for health and finances, is fundamental. Why don't you make the proposal you were talking about, Professor Grodzki? Well, let's bring it in with this big bill, and if we don't, let's at least extend the vacathio legis. Let's introduce the possibility of inheritance and let's give those people who run drugstores today the opportunity to react to changes in the market so that they can adapt to it. The patient will be here as a patentor. This will end with the fact that the prices of drugs will rise, and the pharmacies networks in small towns will not rise. However, there will be a great deal of confusion about future investments and the realisation of those investments that have already been started. All the worst features of an unpredictable state are being introduced by this law, which is why I would ask you to think about it while there is still time. Let us reject this law not to deny the idea of regulating the market, but to make a good bill, which will in some part carry out the demands that were heard yesterday from the apothecary environments operating on this market. There are no patients here, but we don't have to ask them if they want to pay more because we know their answer. And all the elements that the senators were talking about before I spoke, we should also consider. Nothing will happen to Polish pharmacies networks if this law comes into force in some time, and we will have the opportunity to examine what needs to be done to protect the pharmacy in small towns and eliminate the whole range of imperfections that this law has. And finally, I'm going to talk about my personal reflection, and I have 20 years of experience working in the executive organ of the local government. When I listen to these arguments and answers to simple questions about what the benefits will be for patients, how this system will work, how we will support the start-up of pharmacies in small towns, etc., etc., I think that if any of the local authorities, voivodships, mayors, elders or marshals in such a bad, bad, or even sloppy way prepared a draft resolution of the local government, in 5 minutes there would be a request for its cancellation. Therefore, while I ask you: reflect, postpone the introduction of this law, let's work on it again. Maybe it's worth combining with a big bill... That's what I'm calling for. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u192	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Stanisławek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem of the parliamentary projects is the lack of public consultation. That's not a small problem. This is a very big problem that we are dealing with at committee meetings. During committee meetings, we are trying to hold such specific consultations. Such meetings take a long time, as did our meeting yesterday, at which we tried to listen to all the environments, although this is not possible. I was trying to consult in my region. What's the biggest problem? It's not the drugstores that fall down. Network pharmacies are developing, and small pharmacies run by pharmaceutical masters fall. I asked them what their problem was. They said we have a problem because we can't buy drugs. You can't buy drugs at the warehouse because either you buy a whole set, so-called. medicines packages, or a cooperation agreement should be signed. What am I afraid of? I am afraid that this law forces small pharmacies to sign cooperation agreements, i.e. we de facto monopolize the market, only in a different way. Maybe it won't be a network pharmacy with other names, maybe there won't be a name at all, but it will be that small private pharmacy will have to sign a cooperation commitment, otherwise they won't buy drugs. This law does not include this, this law does not apply to the operation of wholesalers at all. We don't have a problem with drugstores. We have a problem with the operation of wholesalers and sales of medicines in Poland. Re-export? I mean, wholesalers can export drugs. There's no limit. Does this law prohibit wholesalers from exporting drugs? Well, not at all, it's not in this bill. The wholesaler can export drugs. I'm not talking about illegal re-export through some shifts between wholesalers and pharmacies, because that's what pharmaceutical surveillance is for. That's why I asked the Minister why we didn't activate pharmaceutical surveillance. It doesn't matter if we change the bill. We're not going to change anything because pharmaceutical surveillance will remain the same. I know how pharmaceutical surveillance works, and I think it's defective. If we don't change pharmaceutical surveillance... we're not gonna change anything with this bill. What did I expect? Discussions were held on this subject with the Minister once at a committee meeting. There was supposed to be a law banning the sale of drugs in shops, gas stations. They were supposed to be single packs. Where's the bill? An enormous problem in Poland is the advertising of medicines. I'm surprised that in the so-called. There are more commercials in government media than in private television. I put on a TV once, and I look at it, and there's an ad for baby painkillers in syrup. Well, Minister, if we promote the advertising of painkillers, anti-coughs, all kinds of drugs, and we don't mobilize the public to carry out preventive tests, we'll go in the wrong direction. If we make laws that you can run four drugstores, while there's a problem with running one... To have four drugstores, you need a couple million zlotys. It's not small money, it's powerful money. Who's gonna be able to afford four drugstores when the little drugstores fall because they can't keep up with those margins? I understand that it is necessary to supplement the sale of cosmetics, dermocosmetics, products with some medicinal properties, etc. It's not a bad direction, but it can't replace the basic pharmacies business. I understand that there will be a big bill, but, Minister, we would like to know what will be in this big bill. We are waiting for some mythical laws, and Members are sending us a passage. He doesn't regulate anything in my opinion, but vice versa: he's going to monopolize the market in a different way by calling it. I would like to make an amendment that you proposed to us in the Senate. This amendment would allow this law to enter... or not to enter, but if it does, it would not work backwards. Because here is the great danger of losing the rights acquired until the big bill. So, Minister, we are waiting for a large bill to regulate the market, but at the same time I would ask you to stop advertising medicines that are not working as quickly as possible, in the interests of the health of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u194	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you will speak to Senator Silence, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would just like to make a few comments, in general, on a few points. However, first of all, I would like to say that I am in favour of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is designed. Contrary to what she's being accused of. In the interests not of anyone else, but of patients. Let us remember one thing: what is the role of the pharmacist. The effect of a pharmacist is an extension of the effect of a doctor and must therefore be particularly qualified in the form of completed studies. And he doesn't just have to have a college degree, then he has to have a specialty and practice to run a pharmacy. These are normal requirements that have existed for centuries. There was also a similar system before the war. I'll be honest with you, the moment I found out, a good couple or a dozen years ago, that drugstores can run non-pharmacies, I was very surprised. Because I lived in a family environment where before the war the family ran a pharmacy, and it was obvious that the pharmacy could only be run by a pharmacist. What happened after that was that there was a situation in which drugstores could be run by non-pharmaceutons led to lower standards in the handling of patients and also standards related to their safety. Because remember, a pharmacy isn't exactly a store where you sell medical products. Pharmacy is the place where treatment is continued. A real pharmacy makes, makes, on the basis of recipes, certain medications. Unfortunately, in most networks, ladies and gentlemen, this is something that is not available. Well, why don't you ask one of the vast numbers of different pharmacies to make you some kind of drug based on the prescription the doctor prescribed? Today is sometimes the dream of a decapitated head and you have to run from the pharmacy to the pharmacy to find one in which this service will be performed. So I stress that the regulation discussed here is not in the interests of pharmacists, it is not as it is tried here to accuse and claim that it is some corporate lobby that is working towards the issue of this law, but it is created just to improve medical care for patients. It is obvious that such a system, where a pharmacist runs a pharmacy, ensures greater safety. Because, ladies and gentlemen... I'll remind you of the detailed regulations. You may not all know this, but the principle is that there should be double control regarding the administration of the medicine: first from the pharmacist who gives the medicine to the patient and then in the evening it should be checked whether the medicine was given to the right person, at the right dose, taking into account e.g. weight of the patient and various other circumstances. It's pretty complicated, and I'm not going in here. But if you bring in running a pharmacy to run a kind of store And that's how it goes. There is no such control. That is why I believe that the law at issue here is very well founded. Of course, it's not perfect. I support the amendment by Senator Vistula, who actually presented the situation very vividly, so that there is a distance of 500 m between one and the other shore of the lake. On the one hand there is a patient who wants to go to the pharmacy, and on the other hand there is this pharmacy. But, of course, the real distance, if you have to walk on the shore of this lake, can sometimes be a few kilometers. Hence, the amendment to make the provision that the distance measured along the public road leading to the pharmacy seems to be appropriate to me. And I support that amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, and finally, the last argument. Because here the robes are torn because this supposedly will lead to a breach of interests in progress, the interests of people who have already started the investment, which have financed certain costs of the pharmacy's equipment, construction of buildings, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a misguided argument. If someone was going to open a pharmacy and already applied for a permit to run it... Remember the article. 2 of this law, which states that the existing provisions apply to proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act, i.e. all the restrictions on the number of drugstores being operated, as to the distance, as to the number of residents that should apply to one pharmacy, will not apply, only the old rules will apply. So there is no point in tearing up clothes and claiming that it will be a great harm to those who wanted to invest in pharmacies. That's why I'm generally in favour of this bill, with this little Senator Wcisla's amendment, which I'm signing up for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u196	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words. I had no intention of doing this, but I would like to speak on this matter, especially since Senator Augustine addressed me so ad personam, indicating that this is my business, although it is practically not related to my profession, because I am a doctor. The pharmacy should, in my opinion, run a pharmacist and so it will be in the future. However, let me say a few words and also calm the opposition. Those critical words that were here, as I understand them, were being said in the care of the patient. I would like to reassure you, the opposition and, above all, Poles, citizens who maybe in some way They're listening to us... Our deliberations are broadcast via the Internet, so I hope that a lot of Poles listen to us. I would not want them to learn from this discussion that pharmacy will be for pharmacists and not for patients. First of all, we have been talking about this solution for many years. We said we wanted this and that we were going to make sure that the pharmacy was run by a pharmacist. We talked about this in one and the other election campaign, so it's not surprising what we're doing right now. And the patients will be satisfied, the patients will be in good condition, because this bill is primarily for them. That's what he read. That is, such intentions in the case of this law, Mr. Senator Silchoń, who spoke about the fact that this law is really for patients. We need to take care of the quality, quality of our operation, and also the quality of the pharmacies. The model we want to pursue, I look you straight in the eye, Senator. It's an English model. Senator Cichoń was talking at the moment about the fact that it ends there or whether the treatment is continuing. It often starts there and ends the treatment. If you stood in a long queue at the pharmacy, I had the opportunity, pleasure or pleasure to stand in a queue that had several dozen people, you would hear questions and such conversations: I have this, I have this condition. Pharmacies start up properly and often also effectively finish their treatment, so their advice must be at a high level. And that's what this bill is supposed to provide first and foremost. The market does not solve matters in the healthcare system. The experience that was done on a living body, on a living body of Poles, on the health of Poles, is already over. It ends with a network of hospitals, ends with the changes we're going to make. You guys were talking. I'm addressing the opposition. On the liquidation of the National Health Fund. You were eight years old, you didn't take a single step, and you made things worse in health care. We have to fix it, and we fix it effectively. This is one of the important, although not the most important, elements. We're gonna do it anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an example because it is best to understand the situation on small examples. I moved from Warsaw to a town which, when I moved, had 5,000 inhabitants. At the moment, because of the liquidation of the largest facility, which was the military unit, the population decreased to 4,000. When I got here, there was one pharmacy, and right now there's six drugstores that compete, they fight. Most likely, if this market were freed and this continued to happen, then one of the drugstores that probably lowers the prices of dietary supplements, cosmetics, said the senator. She'd win because she'd have the most patients. She would have won and the other drugstores would have been wiped out. But then what would this pharmacy do? Of course, it would raise prices and later prices That's exactly what you're trying so hard to do, it would be higher. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a doctor and I've been seeing situations that have been shocking. I wrote Bisocard once, and the patient got Bisacodil. So let's make sure that this doesn't happen and that we really have drugstores, not supermarkets. This bill is meant to apply, and that is its purpose. Ladies and gentlemen... Ad vocem, right? Senator Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that whatever we may say, despite political differences, we have some surgical solidarity. I'm glad you pointed out that both sides care about patients. Maybe it's a little different. we understand it, we look at it differently, but I would like to explain some misunderstandings. There's a pharmacist at the pharmacy today. Whether the pharmacy's owned by a businessman or a pharmacist or a doctor or a lawyer, it's got to be a pharmacist. And the fear that this will change is a completely unfounded fear. But in this little town... Poland is a country full of contradictions. I remember that in one of the mountain towns I'm not gonna name it. There was an apothecary who was an alcoholic, gave out prescriptions, and then the highlanders exchanged with my help: "This is a heartbeat, I'll take it, and you take a piss, because I need it." Well, that's the reality of life. I'm not saying that the pharmaceutical market is perfect, because what Professor Stanisławek was talking about are real problems, but this bill doesn't touch that. The only thing that was intended for us was that we wouldn't be dealing with a section where time would show whether it would work favorably or negatively for patients, or whether it would be neutral. I say it's negative or neutral. Mr. Marshal, that's good. In a free country, everyone has the right to their opinion. But the point is that we deal with the real problems of this important public health sector as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u198	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Józef Zając, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals presented or on the debate? Yes or no, Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, ladies and gentlemen, I propose some changes to the agenda, as I would like to inform you now. I propose that items 12 and 13 be deleted. Following Senator Zbigniew Cichonia's consent to take responsibility for the actions set out in the conclusions of the Chief Road Transport Inspector, the reports contained in the senate prints Nos 445 and 446 Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by 2 items, in place of those items: cancellation of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. and consider this item as item 12 of the agenda; appointment of Vice-Marshal of the Senate and consider this item as item 13 of the agenda. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[I didn't have time to prepare.]] [[This doesn't concern you.]] I can't hear you... In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, that at 8 p.m. a break will be announced, and at 20.15 p.m., points 12th and 13th will be considered, i.e. the cancellation of the Vice-Marshal and the appointment of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. We'll proceed to the... [[Mr. Marshal!]] Yes? I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u199	Mr. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue. Could we file a request for a break from 7:30 p.m.? [[You can apply. Yes.]] I'd like to file a motion... [[Is this the club's request or the senator's individual request?]] Club request for a break from 7:30 p.m. to 8:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u200	By 8:15 p.m. . Good. Then we agree. We'll announce a break at 7:30, and we'll gather and vote at 8:15. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin to consider item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 341, and the committee's report In print No 341 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the Senators Group submitted a draft legislative initiative, which was addressed to two committees by the Marshal's decision. to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Legislation. The title you presented to the marshal, according to the legislative technique, is to amend the Social Insurance Fund pension law, but in fact it is only a part or part of the law on funeral allowances. The project focuses exclusively on this matter. The Senators' Group considered it an error that in 2011 a sharp reduction in the amount of this benefit was made. From the amount of 2 averages in the national economy, calculated accordingly, the period earlier, up to a flat-rate amount of PLN 4 thousand and also the obligation or valorization mechanism, which was then based on the valorization of the average wage, was abolished. This was considered to be too drastic a cut, because it not only did it not conspire with the principles to say social justice, but it was clearly contrary to the real costs borne by mourners, in general by families, due to the tragic, dramatic event of the insured person's death. A family member or, in general, a loved one. The Senators' Group considered that it was necessary to return to the amounts that were adopted in 2011 and meet the needs of the funeral allowance. As you know, the funeral allowance has been placed in the insurance system as collateral for an event of a random nature, changing both the situation, I would say, the biological community or loved ones, as well as their social situation. The evolution of this concept has led us not even to see today that using the reimbursement of the funeral allowance, we focus on the fact that, as many institutions and even experts say, this is supposedly compensation for funeral expenses. This definition, in a common but also legal sense, has evolved so far that the Supreme Court had to correct it by its resolution. First of all, it's not a benefit. In general, benefits are governed by social assistance laws or other laws. Secondly, it is possible to conclude Historically, this was of great importance In general, the death of a family member caused a deterioration of both the legal situation if the deceased was a owner or, above all, a social and material community, that is, the loved ones from whom the person left. Such a position was taken by the court, supported by experts, among others. by Mrs Monica Lewandowicz-Machnikovska from the University of Wrocław. According to this logic, the authors of the proposal propose not only a return to the previous amount of the benefit, not only a statutory obligation to valorize it... I would like to draw attention to the fact that only 2 benefits in Poland are not subject to valorization. The first is the benefit for disabled people, for disabled children and young people. And the other is that benefit. He is not subject to valorization regardless of the costs that change. The ambition of the creators is not only to make changes to the amount of the benefit itself. A closer legal analysis of this benefit indicates that it is a claim. There's a citizen's right to receive benefits. However, practice indicates that this benefit, actually implemented exclusively for the purposes of Funeral, Funeral benefits, has become as if it were absent, remains, I would say, far in settlements with the Social Security Office and completely does not include the mourner himself. So if this is a claim and if it is also to perform functions, as I said, social, and therefore even for a moment, even during a difficult family situation to compensate for the decline... I am talking about both funeral needs and material situations, e.g. A widow who didn't work and only lived out of her pension. It would have to be considered whether its existing uniform value for both those who are on the common farm and those who are not in it and who are close, even members of the family, although they are not in a relationship, I would say I'm sorry for calling you social... It is also about those institutions which are legally obliged to perform a funeral when the family cannot fulfil this obligation, because it is not, when the person who left this world, alone, for various reasons, did not secure the funeral service. Logic dictates that these 3 situations with different risks, and insurance is risk insurance, divided into 3 categories. The creators propose the following solution. The death allowance to the person who remains to death with the insured person in the economic community on the common holding, as it will not only bear the cost of the funeral but will be affected by the effects of the change, a significant change in the family situation. Further, for family members, insured persons or beneficiaries of insurance, the person who has left would be maintained the substance of the funeral allowance as the allowance intended solely for the payment of funeral expenses, as these persons do not remain in the community, so they do not concern a possible social breakdown. And finally, the third thing is to remove some ridiculousness. Today, the funeral allowance is granted to the municipality. Well, imagine that we support the Warsaw community with a funeral allowance. It's like we're saying that the Warsaw commune has been miserable because one of the citizens, one of the residents, has passed away. It is certainly unfortunate, but probably not such that the Warsaw municipality must be subsidised from the insurance system, because there is no funds for the funeral. So we propose to give a different name to this witness, which is necessary to perform the funeral, a name for the reimbursement of costs, because that is the essence of this benefit. When there is no family, when the person has not been insured, it is the duty of the municipality or other institutions to do so, it may be that the establishment, it may be that the social organization is carrying out the burial, and then these entities are entitled to reimbursement of funeral expenses, but no more than the funeral allowance. You may have noticed, because we live in a real world in which everyone meets with the phenomenon of funerals, accompanied by funerals, that this dramatic activity about survival is associated with various bureaucratic activities. And that's what you have to collect for a possible refund of that allowance, and that's what you have to be. maybe in certain situations, when there are conflicts in the environment of the deceased, to divide these costs, and it may be that the accounts are not real, and this finally arises a phenomenon about which a few years ago it was loud, I am talking about the situation in Łódź, where funeral establishments fought for the so-called. skin, that's the law of burial, the right to transport a corpse. For today, ZUS says this: you want to receive a refund of this allowance, present some bills, at least a few, first the death certificate, which is obvious, but also present the bill for the coffin, present the bill for the purchase of the place, present the bill for the flowers. The list is rich here. Fortunately, the Social Security Office is no longer a bureaucratic institution so as to create huge barriers in this area. In fact, by obtaining these three accounts, he actually gets proof that death and burial took place. Then, in response to this within a month, it reimburses these costs, as I said, on a flat-rate basis at the level of PLN 4 000. In my opinion, this is not in line with the wording of the Act, which says that anyone who has been insured or who has passed away is entitled to benefits under the law. And that person doesn't have to prove anything, he doesn't have to present anything, and she shouldn't be running after bills anymore. But even if these accounts are presented by a funeral company, this person ceases to be a party to receiving this benefit. And the creators of the law propose some automation and at the same time simplification, which leads to the restoration of rights under the Insurance Act. Namely, they propose that sufficient evidence of the right to receive the benefit should be: firstly, the death certificate; secondly, the declaration of a Community relationship or the absence of that Community relationship; and thirdly, the declaration of burial. They're still suggesting it. Since this procedure will be simplified, For the benefit to be paid within 7 days of the date on which those documents were presented. So one document, notabene presented via the Internet, may in future the office itself... the insurance company will obtain this information from the office of civil status. So you won't even have to present a simplified death certificate. These documents plus a statement of burial would be sufficient documents sent by e-mail confirming the right to receive the benefit. Simple? Simple and logical, I guess. At the moment, as this function has been passed on illegally, or informally, to funeral establishments, we are dealing with a phenomenon that the senator said at the committee meeting. Namely, regardless of what funds someone spends on funerals, each funeral company will consume these costs. So the client... I'm sorry, the victim who died close to him doesn't have any effect on the quality of the funeral, the choice of the best offer, because she became the subject of this operation. Senator Zdrojewska wrote it down. Altitude. We propose, as I said, a return to previous amounts, which mean that in the case of a person living together... who runs a common household with a deceased person's perimortem allowance, that is the name It would amount to PLN 6,000. We propose, just for budgetary reasons, that for the first year this allowance should amount to PLN 5,000. A funeral allowance, if there was no common holding, would be as much as PLN 4,000 so far, and as far as reimbursement is concerned, it would be as it is today, i.e. reimbursement up to the amount of costs incurred, but not more than PLN 4 000. Following this, of course, we propose to restore the valorisation mechanism based on the valorisation that is applied to the FUS pension system. It would seem simple, but it is difficult in terms of costs. This will undoubtedly result in extra expenses... Maybe one more piece of information. Where'd you get that kind of money? The cost of the funeral varies according to not only from his standard, place, local customs, religious beliefs, is also different due to the age of the deceased. The cost of the child's funeral is from PLN 800 to PLN 1,000. The cost of the funeral at the large facility, as Senator Zdrojewska spoke about, with numerous evidence, is... the incomplete cost of the funeral is PLN 7,000. But let's add honestly that the emerging tendency to organize funerals with cremation or hiding in a columbarium Did I say that right? It reduces these costs, but there is agreement that this cannot be compared, and everyone is doing it, including the current government and the previous government, to some average in the world. There are no average funerals in the world and there are no average customs in the world. Others are buried in the United Kingdom, usually Protestant, modest, and others are buried in Catholic Italy. Poland is undoubtedly distinguished by respect for the last will and commemoration of the deceased. I think this is a good trend, because that means that the memory of the deceased is not limited solely to his physical participation in our temporal life. I believe that this custom, this culture, must be maintained. But this culture will undoubtedly lose if the funeral benefits are reduced and standardized, and thus burials will be used as cheap as possible. It could still be the loot of untrue funeral companies. High Izbo, I mentioned this last, biggest problem. What effect will that have? It is assumed that in the case of 320 000 deaths and assuming that the benefit would amount to PLN 6 000 and equalize the powers of all services Because they differ; uniformed services have different types of benefits, even in KRUS the classification of persons entitled to this benefit is different. The costs would be between PLN 600 million and PLN 700 million. We differ from the government here by 200, 300 million zlotys, and that results from this... The government overestimated it. Not all will receive this highest witness. A large group of people appears At the moment, it's about 30, 40,000 people. Who do not have, or are close to, entitlement to the benefit. These are all those who work on civil law contracts, homeless people, people who don't have anyone close to them and die alone. Therefore, they would not be paid the full amount by definition. But she's so comforted. I think it's real this time, 'cause I notice it too. Who's swimming... The figures indicate that budgetary revenues are rising, and they are growing very strongly under the auspices of the PiS government. This issue could be resolved within the framework of these influences. Finally, as rapporteur and at the same time as the applicant for this law, I would like to say that the opposing opinion was strongly submitted by the Minister for Labour, Social Policy and Family Policy, in particular by referring, of course, to the amounts that are necessary for spending, which is understandable. He further argued that differences in the amount of these allowances due to the family situation could even raise constitutional reservations. Finally, he argued that the current way of securing living family members is well implemented by pension systems, social assistance or even private insurance. Partly, as I say, you can agree with this, but I want to repeat it, although each of us knows that the death of a loved one does not improve the situation of the family, and temporarily makes it much worse. Even receiving a survivor's pension, which is, depending on the family size, sometimes just a fraction of the needs of a child, a wife... Their situation is definitely getting worse because before they give them this pension, which is taking a long time... There's no way to compensate. Therefore, the Supreme Court has rightly taken the view that the benefit is not merely compensation for the costs of burial. Also, the Social Security Office has not crossed this initiative and has tabled proposals for formal amendments which, according to the project developers, should be taken into account. He also did not point to a failure of funds. I think here the role of the FUS, the ZUS is worthy of being emphasized as a guardian of statutory correctness. High Izbo, in order to ensure that people who leave, generally after many years of work, and those who accompany them in the latter way, do not have to worry, and that in a country that has been experiencing continuous development for 30 years now, I ask for a resolution on the adoption of this initiative. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u202	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorised Senator Jan Rulewski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u203	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I don't know if it's a slip or... Because at the committee meeting, we talked about the death benefit, and now you're talking about the death benefit. I understand it's a slip of the tongue. Because before you die, it's... Well, how do you give someone an allowance when you don't know when someone's gonna die?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u204	Yes, thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry if that happened. Luckily there's a digital record of this and... It is a post-mortem allowance because it is aimed at those who will grieve.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u205	I don't see any requests for questions. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? I cordially welcome Minister Marcin Zielenecki. Minister? [[Voice from the room: He left for a second.]] Uh-huh. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: He's on his way.]] Hello, Minister Marcin Zielenecki. Minister, do you wish to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Szymanski, please. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u206	Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, well, I would like to ask, I think, a fundamental question on this issue. Because I think we're all aware that the valorization of the funeral allowance is important and that it should happen, I'd like to ask if the government provides for such valorization. - And if so, when? As well as the basic issue as regards the project presented by Senator Jan Rulewski, which is the costs associated with the proposed changes that the senator discussed here. Well, I'm going to point out that regardless of the increase in the funeral allowance and its valorization, an additional allowance is also offered here. The senator has presented the costs, so I would ask the Minister to refer to these calculations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u207	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u208	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, maybe I'll start with the second question. As far as costs are concerned, we can say that they have made some estimates. I would like to say that this project changed in the course of the committee's work, because its original version was supplemented with proposals for the right to funeral allowance granted in the event of a funeral, one might say, a deadly child. We have made preliminary estimates and what Senator Rulewski was talking about, we have valued at the level of 600 million PLN. We took into account the number of deaths, which in the previous year amounted to 380 thousand. Only in the case of some deaths are we talking about the right to a funeral allowance, so we have taken into account 300 000 people who could be affected on a yearly basis, and we have estimated these effects at the level of 600 million, the original version of which only concerned the funeral allowance referred to in the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. In the senator's speech, it was also mentioned that this kind of provision is also in the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and in the Retirement Regulations of Professional Soldiers and Officers of Uniform Services, as well as in the case of Judges and Prosecutors. So that it can be said that the scope of these changes should also cover these very social groups. Given the modifications that occurred during the committee's work, today I can say that Once again, I stress that these are estimates of the cost of implementing this project around the amount of PLN 1 billion. That's what I'd call it today. On the other hand, as regards the senator's first question about the problem of valorisation, I will refer to history and remind you that the original solutions contained in the pension law, the arrangements for funeral allowance, included a mechanism for benefit valorization. Let me remind you that the solution was that the amount of the funeral allowance depended on the amount of the average salary and was 200% average salary, had a very long tradition in Poland. In fact, this tradition was abandoned in 2011 by amending the pension law and introducing a fixed flat-rate funeral allowance of PLN 4 000. In line with today's legal situation, for this amount to change, it is necessary to amend the law. There is no automatic mechanism in the act... maybe I won't use the term "valorisation" because the word "valorisation" involves long-term benefits, mainly pensions. Here we are dealing with one-off benefits, so it is difficult to talk about valorization, but it can be said that it is a kind of indexing of the amount of the funeral allowance. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, according to today's legal regulations, the funeral allowance is a service that is intended to reimburse the funeral expenses of the insured person, i.e. compensation; so we would say. Since this change, which I was talking about in 2011, it has been more than 6 years, so it can be said that the amount, which was then set at PLN 4 000, has in some sense become obsolete. We know that in recent years the prices of consumer goods and services have increased, and I think that this indicator should be taken into account when it comes to assessing the amount of the funeral allowance that I mentioned It is of a compensatory nature. It wasn't big, was it? It wasn't big. But it's been five years since then, so... the question of the amount of the funeral allowance is obviously being considered by our resort. I don't want to say that there's work to be done to change this amount at the moment, but we're considering, monitoring, watching how this funeral allowance is up to actual funeral costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u210	Allow me a little abuse of the role of rapporteur and author. I took part in the committee's work, but I noticed that the government did not refer, among other things. It was to the problem that my previous speaker, Senator Szymański, raised. But he also did not refer to the mechanisms which at the moment govern the obtaining of this allowance, which is the right of the obvious, automatic, and therefore the need to present the accounts, and thus to the fight of funeral companies for it, and thus to the lack of empowerment of the mourner. This is the first case. What's the government's opinion? Whether in this respect ZUS, FUS or I think it's okay. The government is also doing some work? Second question. How much is real, average? If you can say so. In cities, because most Poles live in cities, the cost of funerals of a certain standard, not low, but also not too high?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u211	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u212	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the first question was actually about the construction of the funeral allowance. I would like to say that the rules in force today differentiate between the rules for determining the right to a funeral allowance and the amount of that benefit. It can be said that when a family member has incurred funeral expenses, the funeral allowance is payable at a fixed rate. Actually, there is no need today to document the actual funeral expenses incurred by a family member. All you have to do is submit an application for which a family member has 12 months after the insured person's death and show that he has died. Showing, through a death certificate, the death of a loved one. However, there is no need to legitimize the accounts. Thus, there is no such problem in this regard. Nevertheless, of course... That's also what the senator mentioned in his speech. Directory of entities I'm already using that term on purpose, I'm not talking about people. The funeral allowance is much wider because the right to a funeral allowance according to today's rules is also granted to various types of institutions that have incurred funeral expenses. Mr. Senator mentioned the municipality, but such a reimbursement of funeral expenses is also due, for example. an employer who covered the funeral expenses of a deceased employee or a political party, a trade union. This catalog is very wide. And in the case of the institution that covered the funeral costs, the need to document the actual funeral costs incurred actually occurs. Except in such a case, this social element, which the senator mentioned, this kind of additional social function, which funeral allowance he has, just doesn't exist. So it would be difficult to imagine other solutions in these cases. Regarding the question of the amount of the benefit, we have also provided information in our written opinion on the project on the development of the amount of the funeral allowance in other Member States of the European Union. We have indicated that there are countries in which this type of benefit is not granted at all, that there is no funeral allowance financed by the social security fund. There are examples of countries in which the funeral allowance is paid, and I would say, given the amount of these benefits, that our funeral allowance does not differ significantly from the average amount of allowances paid just in the case of countries that have such benefits in their social security system. And I could even risk saying that funeral costs in these countries may be higher than here, in Poland. In our opinion, we give an example of Austria, where the funeral allowance is EUR 448 or Belgium, where the benefit is EUR 148. So the amount of PLN 4,000, close to EUR 1 000, seems to be a figure, you can say, a positive one.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u213	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u214	I, Minister, would partially agree with this first statement concerning the operation of obtaining this benefit. Because it doesn't say in the bill, not even in the regulations, that you have to present any documents you mentioned. Meanwhile, the guidelines of the Social Security Office and universal practice, 100 percent practice, show that the proof of burial is, in addition to the death certificate, accounts, at least three. It's convenient for the office, because it has proof of... These accounts do not indicate the amount of compensation. They're barely evidence. But they are required, which hinders the electronic transmission and immediate payment of benefits, which in the West If such benefits occur there It is automatic in nature. The death certificate, the funeral is running. Online The payment of this allowance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u215	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u216	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, let me put it this way: I am not saying that the provisions of the Pension Act, which govern the rules for the payment of funeral allowance, are not questionable. Even the fact that the senator referred to the Supreme Court's caselaw in his speech shows that such doubts exist. The idea of a funeral is questionable, because I could give examples of decisions in which... [[...there was no funeral...]] I don't mean to say that there was no funeral, it's just examples of judgments about some specific and individual situations in which the very concept of funeral raised doubts. Because we can understand this concept in at least two ways. On the one hand, we can understand them as a funeral ceremony that doesn't have to be accompanied, so to speak, by a traditional funeral. On the other hand, we can approach this concept in a traditional way and, in the sense of burial, simply understand the laying of the body of the deceased and the accompanying burial ceremony. This does not, of course, mean that such doubts must be resolved by amending the law, because the law uses ambiguous phrases. It's just that we, as far as these arguments are concerned, which your senator believes are in favour of a rather radical change in the area of funeral allowances... We do not share these arguments. We believe that today's regulation is primarily a clear regulation with regard to the functions of the funeral allowance, and we can also say the rules for granting this benefit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u217	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could... [[Voice from the room: There were amendments and a minister, so...]] I'm sorry. Would the Minister like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're about to announce a recess, but maybe we should try, since the Minister is here, consider another point, maybe we can make it. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. The text of the Act is contained in print No 454, and the report of the Commission In print No 454 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u218	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday's committees gathered and leaned over this bill. The Act of 23 March 2017 amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on Voivodship and Government Administration in voivodship is intended to reform the institutional metrology system in Poland. The Act proposes a reform of the metrology administration by abolishing one of the administrations of measurements, i.e. the head of the peripheral measurement office, and the liquidation of the peripheral measurement offices. The heads of the regional measuring offices and the staff employed there will become employees of the competent local measuring office. In the Law on the Measurements of Art. 8ca has been regulated where the legal metrology control of the measuring instrument is carried out at the place of installation or use. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8m. 5 measurement rights introduced the possibility of validating a re-uniform batch of measuring instruments by a statistical method. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Law on Measurements has been proposed to establish a Metrology Council. During the discussion, questions were asked and doubts were expressed regarding, you can say, two points. The first issue concerned the statistical method to be proposed and, in fact, the absence of an indication of the statistical method to be proposed for the validation of the so-called "re-legalisation." a homogeneous batch of measuring instruments by statistical method. This method has not been indicated. The second issue concerned doubts about the possibility of re-certification of this instrument by the statistical method. The current Vice-President of the Office and the Minister answered the questions in a comprehensive manner. No request was made after the discussion. The Commission recommended the adoption by the High Senate of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u219	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Mariusz Haladyj. Welcome, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Who was first? [[Senator Florek.]] You're welcome, Senator. Come on in, Minister. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u220	I'll try very briefly... We have three minutes, so a quick question for the Minister. I'm talking about the Metrology Council. I'm a little surprised you need the Metrology Council. As far as I know, I don't think there was any such advice, this is a new body that will be called. I would like to know how many people there will be and how this advice will be rewarded. Because it's to me again, just like in the previous laws... and I feel like this is just another piece of advice, these are the next positions... So could you just tell me what the assignment is? Why has she been gone so far and now she has to be? And eventually, what are the costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u221	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u222	The Council will consist of 15 people, 5 representatives of the world of science, business organisations and administration. Participation in the Council will be free of charge. As to why, this is linked to the extension of the tasks of the President of the Main Office of Measurements and the possibility for the President to carry out research and development work. This is related to the fact that the Main Office of Measures will from now on also have the task of enabling the transfer of technology to industry. The point is that research is linked to the needs of industry. The Council is about to, first of all, set out the lines of this research work, and secondly, to enable or improve, so to speak, later this transfer. So this is connected to the new task of the Main Office of Measurements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u223	Thank you very much. Senator Wach. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u224	Thank you very much. I have actually 3 questions, but short, concrete, about staff matters, because there are, in general, staff and metrology issues in this bill. The President is selected so far, except for the fact that there is a different composition of the team Instead of a 3-person, it's five-person, which means it's two... In fact, there are two members of the board mandatory. Is this the only change? Please tell me whether, as a result of this amendment and the entry into force of the Act within 14 days of its announcement, there is a legal need for the President to be re-elected. That's such a staff question. As a result, there is a change that is actually the derivative of a change in the team. That's the first question of staffing. And the second question is the council. In addition to representatives of offices, the Council has five representatives of specific economic units and universities who have the authority to doctorate. By what method will this be done? Will the Minister set a deadline for reporting? It's just that they're all being appointed by the minister as he wishes. How will this list be created?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u225	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u226	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As regards the change of President, this law does not give rise to the obligation to elect a new President. It is linked to the election of the President, and it is really in order for the Metrology Council to influence the election of the new President. About the second question... [[Five representatives each.]] This will be the same as in the case of, for example, the Public Procurement Council. There are no criteria here which require the Minister to address these questions to certain universities. The Minister may only address questions to those universities that meet the conditions laid down in the legislation. And I assume we'll turn to a dozen universities. Later, on the basis of reports received from these universities, the best candidates will be selected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u227	As far as industrial units are concerned, i.e. Economics? The other five are less defined than universities, because in the case of universities, we know that they are suitable types and universities with qualifications.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u228	Yes, but we have entrepreneurs who operate in the field of industry. Entrepreneurs and business organisations operate in working groups that are set up by the President of the GUM. We do not have an economic self-government, so it is not possible to formulate such a request for a formalised structure as far as entrepreneurs are concerned. There is, of course, a kind of freedom in terms of choice, but this choice, as I have already said, is no different from that of bodies such as the Public Procurement Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u229	Thank you very much. I'm asking you a question. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u230	Thank you. Minister, I have two short questions. We have 58 units of peripheral measurement offices. Will all peripheral measurement offices be transformed into long-distance units? And what does the budget of the Main Office of Measurements look like: will they increase and if the funds allocated to increase the scientific resources of the Main Office of Measurements increase?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u231	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u232	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. All peripheral centers will be transformed into long-distance centers. We're not planning on... Neither the Main Office of Measures nor the Ministry will recommend the liquidation of any centres. As far as the budget is concerned, it has actually been increased by PLN 7 million in the 2017 Budget Act, if I remember correctly, with a view to new tasks. This is more about tasks related to increasing the competences of staff rather than organisational change. Organisational change will not cost much, because these are costs associated with, I don't know, changing tables etc. It's not gonna be a case that requires a lot of money.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u233	Thank you very much. Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u234	Mr. Marshal, Minister, yesterday there was a rather extensive discussion on this law on this steel. You also spoke here today about this scientific thread. I would like to ask two questions which will arise as a consequence of the adoption of this law, although they are now only indicated in it. We did not have the draft regulations presented, hence such a question: what content will this law fill? So that's the first question, i.e. a question about the relationship of sample size in statistical testing and the quality of the instruments to be given to them. The second question concerns the uniformity of the instruments to be tested. At the committee meeting it was raised that they are operated under different conditions and in principle this statistics are completely impaired. Is such a statement, a declaration that these instruments used will not be tested by statistical methods... Could the Minister refer to this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u235	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u236	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will not be able to cut my hands off, but in my opinion the draft implementing acts were attached to the project which the Council of Ministers sent to the Sejm. I assume the Sejm should have passed them to the Senate. The first question is linked to the second question. Both relate to the most lengthy statistical method discussed yesterday. Indeed, there was a discussion about the fact that not all instruments operate under the same conditions. In the statutory delegation, which is foreseen in the amendment, the uniformity of the lot is a condition for the instruments to be subject to statistical testing. And only if this condition is met will the President of the GUM be able to allow such a method for the lot concerned. [[And the quality connection to the method?]] Indeed, yesterday the discussion was long and not on all issues, I had this impression, we convinced the senators 100%. Therefore, yesterday and today we carried out, so to speak, an in-depth analysis of the subject in order to make sure that the amendment does not make a mistake. European and non-European countries Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Canada use this statistical method for secondary control. We know the international standards of the International Organisation for Legal Metrology, which has developed a methodology for ensuring the safety of individual users. The inspection carried out by this method will ensure the safety of the instruments and will fulfil its function. We know the results of the oil and gas institute's research, which recommends... The conclusions of the report also support the possibility of introducing this method. I'm not gonna hold up the discussion anymore. Mr. Marshal mentioned a break to be ordered. After all studies, statistical methods for secondary verification are developed. All of this is based on research results and meets international standards. The effect of these tests will guarantee... Well, it's really about the safety of individual customers. With this individual legalization, we, too, make use of a certain presumption. That the device meets certain conditions at the moment. We also presume that this device will meet the conditions for several years. If we take the instruments from a homogeneous batch, which I also stress, if we are testing a particular sample, or part of a given batch, operating under the same conditions if the sample passes the test, then we suppose that the remainder is working properly, because the conditions are the same. The plus of this method is That the instruments can't be here, I don't know, cleaned, calibrated, etc. They must be specified under this statistical method in a formula which excludes any user interference with the device.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u237	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u238	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I must admit that this uniformity concerns me a little. Mr. a priori assumes that any batch or sample is homogeneous, and you're doing a test. And this test can only show whether the batch is homogeneous in terms of metrology values. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, A simple example: there are 1 thousand gas meters from a given estate and you state that they are homogeneous because they were assumed at the same time or they look the same. No, they'll be homogeneous when they give readings within the limits of the error that you're going to determine, and that, of course, should also be determined. What does this uniformity mean? It bothers me because it's not legally defined. I think you're confusing the causes with the consequences here. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: No.]] No? Then explain it to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u239	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u240	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is not specified in the Act, the Act provides for uniformity. This condition of uniformity is subsequently laid down in the implementing act. A draft implementing act shall be attached. These uniformity criteria are the same: the manufacturer is the same trader; the instruments are of the same type, model; the instruments are of the same accuracy class; the rating conditions of use are the same; the instruments were manufactured in the same year or within 12 months; the validity period is 12 months; the notification date... etc. These are criteria that are based on standards developed and in other countries, and in the International Organisation for Legal Metrology. These are not invented here, here, in the Main Office of Measurements or in the Ministry of Standards, but they are based on the experiences of other countries and international institutions. [[May I, Mr. Marshal? Literally a minute...]] [[It's not like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u241	But I think I'm gonna have to call a break because I should have called a break at half past eight. Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u242	What do I mean? That might be correct with this first legalization, the parameters you've read. But the way the device is used affects its properties. Well, how do you find that these instruments are uniform when they were otherwise used? Well, that's basic. How is it with re-legalization and statistical method? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u243	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u244	The rating conditions for the use of the instruments shall be the same. I can't believe other countries have dealt with the problem. From another barrel, so to speak, I answer to the senator... [[Voice from the room: This is an argument.]] ...and we're the only ones who can't handle this problem. [[One sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u245	Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u246	I can answer one sentence. As for the uniformity that the Minister is talking about here, it is generally physical uniformity. And then we're gonna test it to see if we're gonna check for functional uniformity. In general, the sample shall be adjusted according to physical uniformity and then tested, the functional uniformity shall be checked. [[Mr. Senator is talking us into polemics, but this...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u247	If so, I'll call a break and we'll get back to that point tomorrow morning. [[No, I'd better not.]] Okay, thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. There are no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We're adjourned until 8:15. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 43 to 20 minutes 16]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u248	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] High Izbo, resume. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the appeal of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. High Izbo, a group of senators requested that Senator Grzegorz Czelej be dismissed from the function of Vice-Marshal of the Senate. It is in print No 483. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes, hello? In what mode? [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u249	In connection with the agenda. I would ask you very much, because in such a sudden manner, in the absence of so many senators, this order has been changed to move these 2 items to tomorrow's agenda. [[Everyone had a right and a duty to be.]] [[Voice from the room: No, objection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u250	You know, Mr. Senator, he was... Okay, that's the conclusion. I'll put him to the vote. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Okay, yeah, hold on. Excuse me? In what mode? [[About the formal application.]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u251	Mr. Marshal, order has been changed. This order was not judged by the Senior Convention. In accordance with the rules of procedure, it should be assessed by the Senior Convention. Therefore, I ask the question: why was he not consulted?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u252	Okay, but that's not a formal conclusion, that's a question. There's a formal conclusion from Senator Augustine, and you want... [[I object.]] Objection, yes. Mr. Marshal, I will answer to the Marshal. Well, it is possible to introduce at any moment and at any time... [[We're voting.]] I signaled this possibility at the Senior Convention meeting. [[Mr. Marshal...]] There you go... [[Mr. Marshal, you didn't signal.]] There you go, Senator. [[You didn't signal.]] I was signaling the possibility of extra points. [[You didn't signal the possibility of introducing these points...]] [[Extras.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[...which you introduced, and that's how you violated the rules.]] No, I didn't bring them in, the High House introduced them, because she didn't report them, no one reported them... Mr. Senator, no one objected the moment I reported these points. At the moment, the senator has submitted a formal application and we will vote on this proposal, but only when I get my card. [[You're still a marshal.]] [[But what...]] We'll vote first... [[Where do you think you're going at such a difficult time?]] You're welcome, Senator. In what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. We got a new agenda, there was a formal motion to reschedule these points, and now we have two lists... Did items 12 and 13 of the former agenda fall off the agenda? [[Yeah, but we voted it out.]] [[Yes.]] Yes. So they don't have those two points, they don't go in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u254	Yes. They're not here. They're not coming in. [[They're not coming in. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Then we are voting on your motion... [[No, there's a voice...]] [[Yet, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Senator Napieralski.]] Mr. Marshal, do you have something to say or do you want to vote now?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u255	No. I would like to say that your answer did not concern my objections, because I have no objections. As to the introduction of this point, only that you introduced these two points without the opinion of the Seniors Convention. I'm talking about it because you still have a chance to remove this flaw. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Vote!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u256	No, I no longer have a chance, Mr. Marshal, because this point has already been brought into order. [[Make a formal request to convene a convention.]] There's a formal conclusion from Senator Mieczysław Augustyn... [[It's about convening a convention.]] ...to make this point... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Just a minute...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I can see... Ladies and gentlemen, please don't tell me because I have a good orientation right now. I see a call from Senator Napieralski, to whom I will give the floor in a moment. Let me repeat once again that we have a formal motion tabled, which, in a moment's time, after giving the floor to the senator, we will pass the vote, but the formal motion concerns not the photograph of this point, but its reassignment and vote on tomorrow. You're welcome, Senator Napieralski. In what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Formal conclusion. Well, I suggest that the two points you introduced were in the courtroom. In a very strange and unexpected way, concerning fundamental issues, because the choice of the person who is sitting at the Senate Bureau to move these two points to the end of the meeting and as the last items on tomorrow... [[But the same thing...]] [[But that conclusion is already made, Senator.]] But there's a completely different argument... [[But we will not vote on two almost one-sounding proposals, Senator.]] Mr. Marshal, let me finish because you might find a difference and... [[Well, well, well. Then finish making this request.]] I'm done. Since there is a point on the appeal of the Senate Vice-Marshal, and the 13th point is the election of the Senate Vice-Marshal, it is necessary to give a group of senators the opportunity to talk to each other, but also to apply for this position. That wasn't a possibility... [[It was! The Platform Club asked for a break.]] ...that's why I'm asking for these two points to appear tomorrow at the very end of the Senate meeting. Then there will be enough time for a group of senators to decide who they can recommend for the Deputy Marshal position.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u258	Good. Thank you very much, Senator. We proceed with the vote on the motion... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Excuse me? [[No, no, nothing. Thank you.]] We are voting on a further proposal, which also excludes the senator's request, to postpone the consideration of these points for tomorrow, without taking into account the time, date and order, so that tomorrow... If this motion is rejected, the vote on Senator Napieralski's proposal will not make sense. Who is in favour of the formal request by Senator Augustine to move this point to tomorrow? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 28 votes against, 57 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] So we'll proceed. ... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Blackbay. [[To this point?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u259	To this point. Mr. Marshal, this case is sudden, but I think it's important to each of the senators. Therefore, we would also like to prepare something very important for us, namely to propose a candidate who would be verified, hoping that it will be such a good candidate that you will vote for it. Mr. Marshal, I would like to make a request for an adjournment and to begin the proceedings tomorrow from these two points at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u260	Mr. Senator, I understand that... But that was the conclusion that had already been voted out. [[No, no. Mr. Marshal, let's make a distinction...]] [[Objection!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're asking for a break. [[Again. I'm asking for an adjournment to prepare the candidate we'd like to report.]] I see. All right, take a break. It's a recess until tomorrow. Good. [[What break? Objection!]] Senator, you're welcome... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't know, Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Unfortunately, Senator Jan... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[We're happy about that, too.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u261	Why unfortunate, Mr. Marshal? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No, no...]] [[We know very well.]] Of course, I'd like to object. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform, that we are not calling off Marshal Borusewicz... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...we cancel the vice marshal from the PiS who resigned. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u262	Good. We're voting. We are voting, so no more formal requests. After I speak, we vote. We are voting on Senator Czarnobaj's formal request to adjourn until 9 a.m. tomorrow and start the session at 9 a.m. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 27 against, 58 against. [[Voting No 5]] The senator's motion was rejected. Senator... Excuse me? [[Zdrojewska.]] Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask if the resignation has been notified in writing. I'd also like to ask you why. Are they listed in the resignation? Thank you. [[Voice from the room: External cause.]] [[And Mr. Senator...]] And is that a resignation or are we just canceling? [[Just like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u264	Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u265	Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I'd like to request an hour's break. [[But it was half an hour ago.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a request from the club. An hour's break. Permission to take an hour's break. You're welcome. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Time-out until 9:25 p.m. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 25 to 21 minutes 25]] I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, to take your seats, to silence or to best stop talking. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Please, we're back to processing the point... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll say it again. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the appeal of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. High Izbo, a group of senators requested that Senator Grzegorz Czelej be dismissed as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. It is in print No 483. We proceed with the vote on... [[Augustine...]] [[I signed up for the discussion, Mr. Marshal.]] There's no discussion, Senator. [[It's a formal matter.]] Mr. Senator, I, uh... you know what, Mr. Senator, gentlemen of the secretaries told me that you wanted to speak. I specifically started so you could raise your hand, so I'm surprised you didn't pick it up. Although I said we're coming, maybe I didn't say to the vote, so go ahead, I'm giving you the floor. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the hall: To the platform.]] On the platform, yeah, it's gonna be a bigger theater. You're welcome. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, please go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I signed up for the vote based on the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which makes it clear And it doesn't make any exception here. The Senator has the right to speak at any item on the agenda. And so... [[But there isn't, Senator...]] I signed up for the vote, so in that sense... [[But there's no discussion, there's no debate, there's no writing. There's a call by raising your hand and I'm...]] Mr. Marshal, the marshal says so... [[I gave you the floor. Please don't comment on this anymore. It's ad rem. There you go.]] Ad rem. [[Ad rem, yes, sir. Please, what are you doing here?]] I referred to specific provisions of the Senate Rules of Procedure. If Mr. Marshal points out the others that make that record invalid, I will, of course, withdraw my application. [[I've already asked... I've already asked: ad rem, Mr. Senator. I don't want to argue with you. I'm asking you to speak. I gave you the floor. No comments, no comments, because they're inappropriate.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, this situation, which is, I'm sure, is for each of you. For us it is certainly a complete, complete surprise and therefore it needs to be clarified. She's also weird because it's all done in this mode. Of course, yes, the senator is right, everyone has the right to resign. But we don't have to consider it in a few hours, by surprise, by night, etc. We don't have to do that. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we want to know what the reasons for this resignation are. What... [[Everyone has the right to resign.]] Wait a minute. Because this mode suggests that it's some sort of extraordinary situation, that something's behind it, something's hidden. That is why we today feel concerned about this situation, because it is not a state, PiS, an internal matter. Mr. Marshal and Vice-Marshals are here for all of us in the Senate. It must be said that no one on this side of the room, or on this side of the room, finds any reason why the marshal would give up on matters relating to deliberations or health matters... After all, just a few moments ago, Mr. Marshal Czelej was conducting his deliberations, he was abroad, etc., so we are rather inclined to believe that there are important, important reasons behind this. If that's the case, we're asking for their release, because it's important to us too, Mr. Marshal, so that we know how to vote, because if it turns out that this resignation has some other bottom... [[We want to keep it a secret.]] [[But please don't comment on the senator's statement. You're welcome.]] ...that it is connected with some troubles of your marshal, don't give God, to some things we don't know about, and which may be important... You're welcome to explain this matter, to make it clear that we know how to behave during the vote. That is why I allowed myself to enter the platform using the rules of procedure, and not only in my own name to ask for an explanation of what had happened between the morning hours and the present moment, that a person of one of the most important functions in the country is suddenly being called off, because we have to vote on the appeal, regardless of the reason. That's why I'd really ask you to explain...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u268	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I think it's an embarrassing influence of Donald Tusk's theatrical gestures.]] Thank you very much. In a moment, I will give the floor to those who have volunteered, although I think... I am deeply convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this discussion is unnecessary and is carried out on purpose. Such a desire to debate is in the style of total opposition, because every situation must be used to attack. We were more reasonable when gentlemen and ladies withdrew their candidacy for Vice-Marshal Anna Sztark and Mr Marek Ziółkowski, and we did not ask why and why. We just had a different culture, but that's okay. Senator Marshal Chelya. I don't know whether it's from somewhere or from here. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I resigned from the Vice Marshal function without any pressure. This is my decision for private reasons. We have talked about this and with Marshal Karczewski, and with President Kaczyński for a long time, so from the inside it is nothing sudden. I don't think I'm gonna lie, Mr. Marshal, if I say we've been talking about this for three or four weeks. Of course, this is not a comfortable situation for me. If I may ask you not to introduce any extra atmosphere... and respect my decision... I'll just be grateful for that. I have the right to resign. I'm giving up my own will once I've agreed on this as it's supposed to be done in every party. With my direct apologies for the expression, the boss, Marshal Karczewski, with President Kaczyński. That's all. I ask you to respect my decision and not introduce any extraordinary atmosphere, because there's nothing unusual about it. Sometimes you have to take care of other things or work in other areas. So that's not, I assure you, anything sudden between my 8:00 p.m. and the present. That's all. I'd appreciate it if you'd respect my decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Florek and Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, you said it was nothing out of the ordinary. At 7:30 p.m. You were in the middle of a meeting. I was here. I know there were, I don't know, two senators in my club at the time. And Mr. Marshal made a change to the agenda. I don't know, it was 6:00 or 7:00. And at that time there were also printed on the Senate website, these two prints. And I have a question, Mr. Marshal. It's Senate policy. In the rules... you, Mr. Marshal, are always very meticulous, very thorough, I noticed that you like to follow the rules very much. It's Senate policy. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 Rules of Procedure are written: "Competitions of the Marshal of the Senate." And I am reading... The competences of the Marshal of the Senate, item 6: The draft agenda shall be drawn up after consulting the Seniors Convention. Well, I'm sure it was the first mistake, Mr. Marshal, because from what Mr. Marshal Borusewicz said, there was no such convention... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and there was no opinion, so it remains to be questioned whether this agenda has been amended in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Marshal, I have a proposition. In view of what the Marshal has just said regarding the cancellation of your Marshal, I'm sure this point is as point twelve: the cancellation of your Marshal. I don't know how you did it, Mr. Marshal, and you already knew that you had to enter the next point: the election of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. How did you... How did you think there'd be an appeal from your marshal? I think that each senator decides himself whether to vote in favour or against or abstain. I don't really understand this point 13th: the choice of the Senate marshal. And I'd like to make this point: the choice of the Senate marshal. So that this will take place in accordance with the procedure, postpone it to tomorrow, so that we have until tomorrow to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, you should read the rules in full, not selectively individual points, because you can introduce... [[This is a voivodship.]] ... yourself and others misunderstood. The entry for the Seniors Convention concerns the draft agenda. The Chamber shall always be able to amend its agenda. We've used this several dozen times, and I think each senator knows what procedure is and how it's done. And I'm just going to point out that this entry is in the article. 48. Read it, it's a possibility, we're all aware of it. I'm just gonna ask the senator because I didn't understand: did you file a formal motion for point 13 to be dealt with tomorrow? If that's the case, we're gonna vote him out because I'm against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u273	Yes, Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u274	Okay, here you go. We're voting. In that case, I am voting on Senator Flork's request to postpone the examination of the 13th, which is the election of the Vice-Marshal, for tomorrow. Who's in favor of Senator Flork's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 6]] Senator Flork's motion was rejected. He signed up to see if he asked for the floor of Senator Blackbay. Yes? Any of you in this situation, when Marshal Czelej appeared, would you like to speak again? Yes? There you go... I understand you're aware that these... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say my opinion. Of course, I respect, as I think, everyone who is sitting here, the opportunity for you to resign, and we absolutely accept that... [[But you...]] But let's... [[Mr. Marshal, maybe Senator Mammoths wouldn't comment.]] Mr. Senator Mammoth... [[Please don't comment on Senator Czarnobaj's statement.]] ...please, sir, because I'm gonna have to comment on it the way I can. Yeah, well, I'm really asking you to... [[Good. There you go.]] ...he sat there quietly. [[But I've already noticed, Mr. Senator.]] I'm sorry. [[You're not paying attention, you're supposed to focus on what you're saying. You're welcome.]] Okay. That's why we're not questioning-- anyway, I'm not questioning, Mr. Marshal. I'm addressing Marshal Chelya. This element relating to the resignation. It's human, natural, different situations in life happen. I don't want to get into this because this is a case... [[He's not coming in, but he's coming in.]] [[Please don't comment on Senator Czarnobaj's statement.]] ...which is part of Mr. Marshal Chelya's decision. I would like to draw attention to a completely different aspect. First of all, I think each of us, when running for Senate, knew that this was an Chamber of reflection, reflections, an element called: an analysis of all that is being discussed, etc., etc. I observe a very important thing in this term of office, namely hurry and again haste... I'm not going to go back to everything we've decided in extraordinary mode. Mr. Marshal Karczewski speaks of a total opposition. Mr. Marshal, total authority, which does not respect any rules, must and should be met by a total opposition. [[Applause]] Those are the laws of physics. The reaction is counter-reaction, f i-f-remember something like that. Therefore, don't be surprised that in the situation where you're putting us in, when we're going to vote on the marshal's appeal at 8:00 p.m. and the appointment of a new marshal... Well, that's not the Senate standard. We would like you, while respecting the Senate's standards, to consider the following: nothing stands in the way... I am not asking for arguments about why Mr. Marshal Czlej resigns. He's entitled to it. But there is nothing to prevent the procedure from being the following: Mr. Marshal Czelej resigns for personal reasons. This is a sufficient argument. Mr. Marshal puts this matter in the meeting of the convention, the convention advises it and the case comes to us. We introduce our candidate, we analyze how to vote, and we have time to discuss. It's all done in at least a suspicious, inhospitable and unsuitable way to the Senate. The authors of the Rules of Procedure, which is very general, the senators who adopted these Rules of Procedure, had in mind that during various debates, the senators, based on their wisdom, would use the Rules of Procedure of the Senate as an auxiliary element, not a document which is used only to do things that simply do not fit the Polish Senate in a sudden, fast, unexpected way. Extraordinaryness, suddenness, only quality These are the features of our Parliament's current deliberations. I'm asking you again. Mr. Marshal, while respecting the importance of parliamentarianism and the Senate of the Republic of Poland, I ask you to consider whether it could not be so that tomorrow we will proceed to the examination of these two points, and we will carefully examine all the elements relating to the appointment of the Marshal and the submission of candidates. The point is that all this has the right mode and time to be able to refer to the proposals put forward, without getting into the details of the decision of Marshal Czelej, which we personally respect. I am completely not interested, Mr. Marshal, what are the reasons for your resignation and whether it took a long time to make decisions. If you've been discussing this for four weeks, like the marshal said... I'm sure it was smoldering somewhere. When the convention was held this morning, it should be mentioned that the points concerning the appeal and appointment of the Vice-Marshal will probably be dealt with. Once again, Mr. Marshal, I repeat my call for us to proceed peacefully tomorrow with these two points. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u276	Good. Thank you very much. [[Remind President Adamowicz of the standards.]] You're welcome. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska volunteered. I will refrain from commenting, although I would like to comment. It's hard for me to do this, but I'm refraining from commenting. [[But Senator Blackbay's right.]] I don't think so. [[That's my comment.]] We don't make comments from the spot. You're welcome. The senator has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u277	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as I was walking here, I heard comments coming from the piss bench. I'd like to say that they were very... [[Law and Justice.]] Please? [[Law and Justice. That's what the party's called.]] Law and Justice Jury, PiS short. I didn't insult anyone. There's a PiS shortcut and there's a PO shortcut. They're not offensive. Quite offensive was the remarks I heard. I'd like to say that I'm really surprised about all this because the trouble we're having right now I'm addressing Marshal Chelya. The fact that we are going out and talking has come from the fact that the state acts in one way rather than another. You could normally report it, say it's a resignation for personal reasons, then not submit applications from senators in which it says it's a resignation, because I guess... I don't know what it's like, I also asked for a legal explanation, because it seemed to me that if a marshal resigns for personal reasons, it's enough, but if it is so that there must be a resolution, that's fine. Regardless of this, the fact that you are reporting this in such a way must raise our serious doubts. Nothing will happen until tomorrow, which would require the immediate choice of the marshal, unless you were actually going somewhere right now, your marshal, your vice marshal, you would leave Vice-Marshal Bielan or Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. He's the one to run the proceedings. There's no reason for this to happen in this mode. I am very sorry, too, because many of you report various reasons in the clowns. We don't believe them. We hear information about the special visit of the President, the President of Law and Justice, who, perhaps for the first time, honored our House with his presence, we hear about some conversations, and now we hear from the Vice-Marshal that these talks have been going on for a very long time. So it was time to prepare an appropriate application and submit it. So that the fact that we are now drawing attention to the fact that this cannot be the case... In the face of these various resignations, the astonishing ones that are taking place in the country at the moment, we must be concerned about the worrying number of them. But also, Mr. Marshall, I'm addressing your chief marshal. We have this point in the Rules of Procedure, which is why we are here, and that is why we are talking about it. That's our job, the opposition. I would also like to say that we would also like to have a little more time to prepare a good presentation of our candidate, a statement on our Marshal candidate. [[Unprepared.]] [[I'm sure your candidate is very well prepared, Senator, so I guarantee...]] Dear Marshal, please... [[A request has been made for the selection of Mr. Marshal Borowski...]] Yeah, yeah, I know, because I'm signed under it, and I signed off on that motion. [[There's a motion, you signed, we'll vote.]] Yes, but we would like to prepare in such a way that we would like to present you with a resume in writing, for example. On the tables, hand over the materials. [[Voice from the room: We know, we know.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we don't choose the head of the club here, we choose the vice-marshal of the Senate, not the vice-marshal of PiS, but the vice-marshal of the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u278	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Boris-Damięcka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u279	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for giving the floor. I would just like to point out that Vice-Marshal Czelej is not a private person, he is a public person, he has his constituents, he has been elected by these voters, and the whole board voted to allow him to act as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. Therefore, even if he gives private reasons, first of all, to us, to the senators, and in some order and to his constituents... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, I'm sorry. Don't disturb the senator.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] I'll wait, Mr. Senator. [[Quiet, Mr. Senator, please don't disturb...]] I'll wait, Mr. Senator, until you behave well, the word "senator"... [[That's what I expect from the senator, too.]] [[You're welcome, Senator, to continue your speech.]] Therefore, we cannot treat the matter in such a way that a statement or document has been made in private, which we have not received and which we have not had a chance to get acquainted with this day. This occurred late in the afternoon as an indication that such a notification had been submitted and that there would be additional points in order. So that we can't and shouldn't treat it as a private matter. This is a public matter, a matter of voters, a matter of the dignity of the Senate and the duty of the senator, the service he performs. And this applies not only to the Vice-Marshal's position, but to each of us, anyone who has the title, the name of a senator, and has been elected to this position. This is case number one. As far as case number two is concerned, I would be very cordially asking, Mr Marshal, to cause, however, a calming of the atmosphere so that we can speak in a decent manner and as is the case in this House. In order for you to refrain from your malicious remarks, especially those embarrassing speeches in the corridor that I will not quote, not to the senators, but to the situation that has arisen, and to what you want: to execute the order you have received as soon as possible. Because I think...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u280	Senator, I protest! What evidence do you have that some... I mean... [[Who's the name?]] [[What warrant?]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Well, at least...]] You can't talk like that, Senator. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: For example...]] Don't tell me, ma'am, about any pressure. A moment ago, you appeared as a marshal, and I said... Please don't act like this... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I am...]] ...and don't use words that aren't true. You have no idea what happened, and don't talk about any pressure. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Please...]] There was no pressure! [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Please, Mr. Marshal...]] Don't talk like that! Because you, on the one hand, require us to be cultural... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Can I finish my speech?]] Senator, I have the right to speak, too, and... [[At the time of the other person's speech?]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I was the one who wanted to ask you not to conduct this meeting in such a nervous way that Mr. Marshal...]] But who's to say that the atmosphere is so nervous? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Because the marshal doesn't speak...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] How can I not?!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u281	I'm gonna raise my voice in this situation, too. Please bring this conversation to the level of cultural conversation and allow everyone to speak. And I want to explain why I said that. Let me explain myself. I said that based on the fact that at the same time we receive information about cancellation and choice. And I said this because the state had to have this organized and established, without introducing the remaining 30 senators, without arguing why it is cancelled, and that is quite important, without having to discuss it, to give a chance to prepare for the vote. Because eventually, each of us could make our decision on the cancellation of Marshal Czelej and vote for the next candidate. I said that because it was declared en block, as two existing proposals side by side. It seems to me that at such a rapid rate, very fast, without any thought, you can only vote about the cancellation of Minister Macierewicz... [[You're gonna call him off because he's killing an agent.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...because we know exactly what he's going to do for a year and a half. [[Ooh!]] And here we should have time to think about it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u282	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much for your comment, which has certainly affected the temperature of this dispute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you so much for your comment. Senator Grażyna Shark. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm here on a formal matter.]] I've already given the floor, and then I'll give it to you on a formal matter. There you go. [[End this discussion.]] Well, for the record, I'm sure it'll be the best conclusion. I would have applied for it myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I mean, to lower the temperature of this discussion, I'm gonna say... I would like to say, and I would like to join my previous speakers, that there would probably not have been this discussion if it weren't for this surprise. Of course, we heard Mr. Vice-Marshal Czelej today, his statement that this is his resignation. Of course, he doesn't have to give us the real reasons why they decided to do so. However, I would like to say that when you do not speak directly, there are various informations, so-called. Corridor. Since one of these information or two information concerned some direct... or matters related to the Marshall's departure and my departure... or my participation in a joint visit to China, I would like to tell all of you here publicly that this visit, which was very high... Mr. Marshal was very respectful during his visit. I think I... But, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't organize this. And as far as I know, there was also quite good cooperation between the inviters and those who agreed to this visit. Therefore, I will not be involved in this matter. I just want to say 'cause it's right to say it. In terms of the level of proceedings, I also consider that they were conducted in a very cultural manner. Never, when the debate was conducted by the Vice-Marshal, there was such a pressure. I wouldn't want to do any more harm, Mr. Marshal, really. And once again, I'd like to say, you really had a very good vice marshal. Doesn't mean the next guys aren't gonna be good. And I would also like to thank you on behalf of our club 'Cause that's not gonna happen anymore... And I also think that you didn't deserve to be so... It would seem to us, even insincerely, but to tell this group of senators: thank you very much because I have to... or: I have finished my work for the entire Senate. So that I thank you for your cooperation, Mr. Marshal, and I hope that... we will end it this way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u284	Thank you very much. I don't see any more voices besides Senator Wind. Are you Senator Wind... Yes? There you go. [[No.]] No. Good. This, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak either. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for speaking. We proceed with the vote on the appeal of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. The Senate dismisses the Senate Vice-Marshal by secret ballot, adopting a resolution by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the secretaries: Senator Alexander Swed, Senator Jerzy Wcisla and Senator Waldemar Sługocki. The senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators in a moment. You're welcome, gentlemen, to deal. The card should be marked with only one mark (s). A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. Once the card has been filled out, the senators in alphabetical order will throw the cards into the urns. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I ask you to hand out your cards and your senators. It's about filling out these cards. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now I ask the question: have all the senators received voting cards? [[Voice from the room: No, I haven't...]] Not yet, right? This is please fill in the blanks and hand out the cards to all the senators. I'm gonna ask that question again in a second. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: For I was short, and there was still...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, have all the senators received ballots? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] I take it you do. Now I ask Senator Alexander Swede to read the names of the senators sequentially. And I ask your senators, after reading their names, to put in the ballot box filled with secret ballots. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u285	List for secret ballots of the 9th term of office of the Senators of the Republic of Poland: Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u286	Did all the senators vote back, which means they put the cards in the urn? Yes. Thank you very much. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering an adjournment until 10:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 04 to 22 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the appeal of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I'm declaring the results. Ladies and gentlemen, I read the minutes of the secret vote of 20 April 2017 concerning the cancellation of Senator Grzegorz Czelej from the function of Deputy Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term. Senator Alexander Szwed, Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Waldemar Sługocki, state that 87 votes, including 87 valid votes, were cast in a secret vote on the appeal of Senator Grzegorz Czelej from the role of Deputy Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the 9th term. 58 senators voted against, 24 senators voted against, 5 senators abstained. The absolute majority of the statutory number of senators required is 51 votes. Below are the signatures of the three senators. In view of the results of the vote, I find that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the dismissal of Senator Grzegorz Czelej from the function of Vice-Marshal of the Senate. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the election of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. High Izbo, I inform you that the following nominations have been submitted for the post of Vice-Marshal of the Senate: Senator Michał Sewerynski and Senator Marek Borowski. [[Applause]] [[Boo! Guys, commie?]] The applications in these cases are in prints Nos 483 and 485. I ask Senator Marek Martynowski to present the candidacy of Senator Michał Sewerynski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present Professor Michał Sewerynski's life story and to recommend on behalf of the Senator's Law and Justice as Vice-Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Mr Michał Seweryński was born on 1 July 1939 in Łódź. In 1962 he graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Łódź. He completed doctoral studies at the same university and obtained a PhD in legal sciences and a habilitation doctor. In 1987 he received the title of extraordinary professor. In 1990, he was appointed as a professor of medicine at the University of Lodz. Between 1962 and 1965, he conducted a prosecutor's application and worked in the prosecutor's office in Łódź. Since 1969, he has been an employee of the University of Łódź, where he lectures labour law and European social law. Between 1984 and 1987 he was dean of the Faculty of Law and Administration and in 1990 and 1996 the rector of the University. From 1996 to 2005 he taught at the Salesian Higher School of Management and Economics in Łódź. Since 1997 he has worked as a professor at the University of Economics in Katowice. He taught at universities in France, Canada, Sweden, Great Britain, Spain, Japan and Switzerland. It has over 180 publications, including several dozens in foreign languages. He is a member of national and foreign scientific associations. From 1990 to 1996, he presided over the Conference of Rectors of Polish Universities. He was also Honorary Consul of the French Republic in Łódź, a member and chairman of the National Council of Secular Catholics and a member of the Pontifical Council for Secular Affairs. He sat in the Legislative Council with the President of the Council of Ministers and presided over the Government's Labour Law Codification Commission. Between 2005 and 2006, he held the office of Minister of National Education and during 2006 and 2007. Decorated with many national and foreign awards. He was chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and member of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport in the 8th term of office in the Senate. He is currently chair of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. He's partyless. I strongly encourage you to vote for your professor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u288	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to present Senator Marek Borowski's candidacy. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to be on behalf of... [[The best of the Commies...]] I'll wait for this gentleman to leave. [[Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, ……]] Oh, excuse me, Senator. [[I can't listen to this. I'm leaving.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of myself and the Civic Platform Club, I would like to present the candidacy of Marshal Borowski. Because of the short time I had to prepare, I will give you some facts from the life of your marshal, and above all I will answer the question about who we are choosing today. The professor's beautiful scientific record, as I've heard here in the courtroom, certainly predisposes you to perform high functions. However, I would like to say that today we choose the first among equals, which will be a good organizer of the Senate's life. In our view, what concerns the conduct of the deliberations, in the issue of Marshal Borowski, will be an element allowing everyone to speak equally and without conflicts, present, present their views on draft laws or issues relating to resolutions which are the subject of the proceedings of the High Senate. Let me just remind you that Marshal Borowski has been a parliamentarian since 1991. So what concerns the history of the new Poland is related to the activities of Mr. Marshal Borowski as a parliamentarian, performing various functions in the Polish Parliament. From the envoy, through the senator. Also functions in the Seym, especially in the Seym... I would like to remind you that Marshal Borowski in the government of Prime Minister Mazowiecki from 1989 to 1991 was Deputy Minister of the Internal Market, in 1993 to 1994 Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, and in 1995... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I have always had the impression that people working at Catholic universities have many cultures in themselves. And I would like to appeal for this culture. The moment you look at a resume or a laudation in relation to a person... It can be disagreed with, but from the point of view of elementary culture it should be listened to and voted as the heart and mind speak. That kind of shouting... [[applause]] ... are good, but on the football field or at any other kind of meetings. And among others. That is why we are promoting the candidacy of Marshal Borowski, who will pay attention to equality in the treatment of those who appear on this speaker who even say things that are unacceptable by one of the parties who listen to the speech. Mr. Marshal won't allow me to apologize for saying that in the High House. Such rude remarks from football fields were transferred to the Polish parliament. [[Applause]] At the same time, I would like to remind you that Marshal Borowski was Head of the Office of the Council of Ministers in 1995 and Vice-Marshal of the Second and Third Sejm in 1996 and 2004 and Marshal of the Fourth Sejm in 2001. Since 2011, Mr. Marshal Borowski has been an independent senator. This role of Marshal Borowski in parliamentary life in Poland shows that he is a person who has experience in it, knows how to do it, knows how to do it in a worthy way, with great respect for the entire House to conduct the session of the Polish Senate. I would also like to recommend to you the election of Marshal Borowski for one more important reason, namely because there would be some political pluralisation in the bureau. I would like to point out that Marshal Borowski is reported by our club, but he is an independent senator. And if there was such representation in the bureau that there would be 3 marshals from your side, Mr. Marshal Karczewski at the head and 2 Vice-Marshals, 1 Vice-Marshal from the Civic Platform and 1 independent, it would be the way in which the sovereign voted for the people who sit in the Senate. Therefore, knowing your views, knowing your respect for the decisions of the sovereign vote, I would ask you to present this element of pluralism in our bureau, I think for the benefit of the Senate. At the same time, I would like to say that Marshal Borowski is a man who in various kinds of speeches And no one can deny it here. It is based on some important elements in political life. Namely, it is based on knowledge, logic and cannot be found any speech by Marshal Borowski, in which he would be based on presumptions, like one of your senators, who, when I asked what he was basing his statements on, said: the senator can say what he likes. This is something strange for Mr. Marshal Borowski. Such qualities are important for a person who acts in an efficient manner, but also represents the part of society that has not voted for either the Civic Platform or the Law and Justice, and would like to have a person in a convention, in a bureau, who is an independent senator. What's important, too? Mr. Marshal Borowski, which I remember as a person acting in local governments, was made known as a person in the field of primaries who was acting in a fundamental way. And I do not want to recall here all the events that took place in the new Poland after 1990. But one thing I'm sure of, by presenting Mr. Marshal Borowski's person, is something that maybe is difficult for you to accept. However, I think it is worth considering this, maybe not today, but maybe someday you will think about it: maybe it is worth having a person in the bureau who will not agree to present in the Polish Senate within 5 minutes a bill passed in the morning, without an opinion, and as all opinions are negative, it is enough to push it with the knee so as to announce. That's the part. e.g. Also a marshal sitting in the bureau. Knowing the delicacy of Mr. Marshal Borowski's opponent, I know... I know the Professor's view, who said it was just opinions. Therefore, the candidacy of Marshal Borowski guarantees what is important, i.e. balance, stability, peace, but also respect, as I said, the voice of many voters. At the same time, I would like to say privately that an important element... When I read today what qualities of a person need to be paid attention to in order to praise him, I see that apart from the fantastic accomplishments that you have in life, it is important to answer the question of what a person is doing in addition to his professional activities. And I just want to talk about two elements that I know the marshal likes them, chess and bridge. And I would like to say two sentences, why it is so important that these two elements decide that Mr. Marshal Borowski is a good candidate for this position. That's because, among other things, I'm already talking about a hobby for those who play bridge, where this quality is important. In bridge we have to do what we say. Someone who announces and pursues completely different goals is a bad player, a bad... the one who achieves the goals. And that is why, given all the features of Mr. Marshal Borowski's experience, I would like to ask you to vote for the nomination of Marshal Borowski as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u290	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the election of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. The Senate elects the Senate Vice-Marshal in a secret vote by an absolute majority vote. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the senators of the secretaries: Senator Alexander Swed, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, and Senator Waldemar Sługocki. The senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators in a moment. The secret ballot shall be accompanied by at most one name. A ballot card with more than one mark on it shall be deemed to be null and void. The voting card will be valid if one of the characters "x" has been placed or if no "x" mark has been identified. After filling out the cards, the senators in alphabetical order will throw the cards into the urn. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. The cards are dealt, we're waiting for the cards to be finished. Do you read how we vote again? No? [[Voice from the room: No. There's a manual...]] There's a manual. Okay, I don't read. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I already have... Do you all... Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because if someone hasn't received the card and says they haven't received it, I won't hear it. Did all the senators receive the ballots? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I didn't hear any voices, so I think they all did. I ask Senator Alexander Swede to read the names of the senators in turn, and I ask the senators to post their names in the urn filled with ballots for secret ballots. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u291	List for secret ballot, senators of the Republic of Poland IX term: Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Maria Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, have all the senators voted? Thank you very much. I ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a recess until 10:45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 37 to 22 minutes 46]] I'm reopening the session. We return to agenda item thirteen: the election of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I'm declaring the results. Minutes of the secret ballot of 20 April 2017 on the election of the Deputy Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. Designated by the Senate Marshal to hold a secret ballot Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Waldemar Slugocki They state that 86 votes were cast in the secret vote on the election of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland for the 9th term of office. The voices of importance were 86. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 44. 28 senators voted in favour of Senator Marek Borowski's candidacy and 57 senators voted in favour of Senator Michał Seweryński's candidacy. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] The absolute number of votes required was Senator Michał Seweryński. There are three senators' signatures underneath it. Congratulations. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please... [[Voices from the hall: Congratulations!]] Mr. Senator, please approach the table... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The Marshal gives Senator Michael Severinski the text of the resolution]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Marshal Michael Sewerynski is asking for the floor. In accordance with the rules of procedure, I shall give the floor. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u293	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for this trust, and I accept this office, knowing the responsibility that lies with me. I intend to do so with respect for the entire House, all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, and with respect for the rights that all Members of the House have. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that tomorrow we start the session at 9.00, first, and second, we begin with the examination of item 10 of the agenda, namely the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and some other laws. Before I announce a recess, I ask the senator to read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u295	High Senate, meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the pharmaceutical law, Senate printing No.472, will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room No. 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-20-senat-39-1.u296	Thank you very much, Senator. I declare the session adjourned until 9 a.m. on 21 April. [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 50]]
