ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Marcin Duszek, Arkadiusz Marchewka, Arkadiusz Myrcha and Piotr Olszówka to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marcin Duszek and Mr Piotr Olszówka. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Souszek and Arkadiusz Carrot. I consider the minutes of the 40th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy, - on the amendment of the agricultural tax law and the law on local taxes and charges. The reports shall be printed in 1503 and 1507 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the committee's report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention adopted a proposal from the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on a new draft regulation of the Ministry of National Education concerning the waiver of the possibility of individual teaching in kindergartens and schools, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. The formal proposal was submitted by Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u2	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members, Fellow Members! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Article. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) I request that this session be adjourned until the votes have been converted, signed under the motion for a referendum on the deformity of education submitted here in the Sejm. For we will not be able to start a debate, Marshal. Well, I have the feeling that the government side is having some trouble counting. We applied on April 20th. It's been three weeks since then. During these three weeks you have not been able to count the votes, and to this day we have no chance to talk about the problem under which almost 1 million Poles signed. [[The ship's shredder's broken.]] I ask you, Mr Marshal, that you hurry those who count and bring this to the session of the Sejm so that we can debate the chaos, the destruction of the Law and Justice he wants to bring to his education deformity. [[Applause]] And one more thing. I have the impression that Minister Zalewska has not informed Prime Minister Szydło that it is not too late for such a debate to be held and to reverse this harmful reform, especially because today this reform is on paper, unfortunately today parents, despite May, in difficult weather conditions, stand before the Sejm and demonstrate. They don't agree with what you're doing with the Polish school. [[CP.]] [[They weren't on May 6th?]] The Prime Minister doesn't know that since we only have a bill on paper, she can be withdrawn calmly. It took you 48 hours to introduce a harmful bill. I think that within 24 hours you will be able to write a bill that you will introduce in one night and withdraw this really devastating, harmful, fatal law that is ruining the education system in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u3	Here I would ask the Member to complete this proposal, because it is partially formal, so to speak. [[Why?]] That's because the adjournment request isn't there. [[As long as you agree, Mr. Marshal, and lately, with this permission, it can be different.]] As long as we're done counting the votes. It's a motion to postpone for a while. If the Member were... [[Game in the O.R.]] Well, that's it. Just give me a timeline.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! I said clearly: until the signatures are converted, then we will be able to debate the problem under which 1 million Poles signed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u5	Thank you, Member. [[It's against the law.]] However, a request for deferral is a request with a specific deadline. [[A formal conclusion.]] [[But how long will it take you to count?]] In that case, perhaps we'll accept a request for a week's delay, ladies and gentlemen. [[100,000. You can't count demonstrators.]] A week. [[What's going on with Modern?]] I would also like to inform the High House that a special committee with representatives, staff of the State Election Commission and representatives of the applicants is in charge of counting votes. It is carried out without undue haste and without undue delay, it is carried out naturally, just like all previous works... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[In the column room.]] ...in relation to such requests for referendums, which were submitted and under which there were signatures - 2 million, about 1 million, several hundred thousand. Because we have to remember that this is about recalculating at least 500,000. Votes, not 100,000. Voices. [[Up to 100,000. They can't count.]] Usually, according to the knowledge I have, this calculation lasted two to three weeks. [[It's gone.]] That's the count that lasted two or three weeks... [[They don't know because they didn't count.]] ...but take into account that at that time - from 20 April - there was a so-called. A long May weekend. [[They were counting demonstrators at the time.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to take Considering that it was a holiday, a national holiday and a Labor Day. I understand that there is an agreement from the honourable Member to vote on the motion to postpone the sitting for a week. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. 149 votes against - 242, 3 abstentions. I find that the Sejm has not accepted the proposal. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u6	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11.15, - an investigation into the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and bodies vis-à-vis Amber Gold Group entities, immediately after the end of the votes, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 11.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11.30, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12.30, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13.30, - Health-- hour. 13.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 15, - Culture and Media - hour 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 5:15 p.m. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 12, - Dolnośląskie Parliamentary Team together with the Krkonoše-Jizera Parliamentary Team - at 3 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Creating Border Passage in Włodawski - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Digitalization, Innovation, IT and High-Tech - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Economics and social entrepreneurship - hour 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u7	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws (prints No 1319 and No 1488). I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the draft law on amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is to optimise the expenditure of the National Health Fund on guaranteed healthcare provision and to standardise benefits. This objective will be achieved by the right of the Minister of Health to change medical technology, which will allow clarification of the content of the list of guaranteed benefits. Benefits of failed clinical efficacy and undocumented safety, which generate high costs on the part of the public payer, will be identified. The scope of individual guaranteed benefits will be adjusted, including by amending certain rules on the refund of medicines, special purpose foodstuffs and medical devices. At present, the Ministry of Health does not have the right conditions... [[Mr. Marshal, will you calm...]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...necessary to carry out a change in medical technology from the perspective of the clinical relevance of funding...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u9	Excuse me, sir. Members who are busy talking and not listening to the Member's report, please leave the Chamber or stop talking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u10	I'll say it again. : At present, the Ministry of Health does not have the necessary conditions to carry out a change in medical technology from the perspective of the clinical relevance of their public funding. Funding from public guaranteed benefits with undocumented effectiveness and inefficient benefits cost-effectively exposes the public payer to unreasonable spending. At the same time, the project introduces a solution to provide patients with access to medicines which are not financed by public funds and are necessary to save the life or health of the recipient, and where justified and supported by indications of current medical knowledge. This is necessary because there are situations in the current legal state where it is not possible for a patient to be given a medicine of proven effectiveness, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] because it is not a guaranteed witness while it can save the patient's life. Following the first reading, the committee considered the draft, i.e. subsequent amendments to the laws in question, with a majority of several editorial and legislative amendments and several substantive amendments. On the other hand, the two related amendments were not accepted by a majority, so they were tabled as minority proposals. These proposals request that the draft provisions establishing the availability of contraceptives be removed from the prescription of a doctor, i.e. a prescription. At this stage of the work, the committee requests the adoption of the act as presented in print No 1488. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u11	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Joanna Kopcinska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The main objective of the draft law on amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds, i.e. the so-called. The emergency access to medical technologies, emergency technologies, is to optimise and increase transparency in the expenditure of the National Health Fund on guaranteed healthcare provision and standardise the implementation of these benefits. These are two priorities that we are trying to achieve in health care: transparency of expenditure, so that no spent zloty raises the slightest doubts about its validity, and well understood standardisation, so that the various technologies and benefits are valued according to clear keys and objective criteria. Funding from public guaranteed benefits with poor efficiency and inefficient benefits cost-effectively exposes the public payer - as has already been mentioned - to irrational public spending. The Polish state cannot afford to pay, often extremely expensive, benefits that are not effective. We are all well aware of many problems of Polish health care. One of them is insufficient. That is why we need to take care of effective and effective treatment. We can't spend money lightly. The project introduces solutions to provide patients with access to medicines which are not financed by public funds in a given indication and which are necessary to save the life or health of the recipient. This is necessary because there are situations in the current legal situation where it is impossible to give the patient a cost effective medicine of proven effectiveness because it is not a guaranteed provision while it can save the patient's life. It is time to correct the mistakes of the predecessors who have led to a condition where the patient is merely a statistic, a position in the balance sheet, and human life is less important than a procedure. The implementation of the project will have a significant impact on citizens' health. This will result from the use of proven effectiveness and restriction of the use of technologies that do not meet the requirements of the assessment of the drug technology as part of the benefits of guaranteed medical technologies. The Act's long-term actions will reduce the negative consequences of the use of inefficient medical technologies, including hospitalisation and the need to treat complications, as well as the lack of ability to work or to limit them. The bill provides for the possibility for the Minister of Health to issue a decision on a partial refund of a drug not commercially available on the territory of the country and imported from abroad under the conditions enshrined in the Pharmaceutical Law. A lot has been said recently about importing drugs from abroad and their availability, about the real need for such action. Much of the medicines needed for effective treatment of Polish patients are available, but there are exceptions to this rule. There are real difficulties in getting some drugs that - although nominally available - cannot be obtained in practice. This is the answer to this project. Thanks to this law, we will eliminate even a few cases when you have difficulty getting medicines. No one will be left alone. Allowing the Agency to issue recommendations will provide patients with access to benefits, first, the most important in terms of protecting the health of society, secondly, the proven clinical efficiency, thirdly, the most cost-effective of delivery and, fourthly, adapted to the financial possibilities of the National Health Fund. These are real benefits for the patient. We don't promise the golden mountains. We promise reliable valuations, recommendations based on expert knowledge, and thus - the choice of the best treatment methods and tools for the patient. Public attention is also paid to the so-called issue. contraception the day after. Focusing on the content of the Act, on the real solutions that will be enshrined in the law, it should be pointed out that thanks to the above regulation the doctor will be able to assess whether the use of the medicine will not adversely affect the patient's health. This is a practice commonly used for hormonal drugs, which - not to know why - has been omitted here. This is not about ideological issues, but above all about the health of patients who are indirectly deprived of specialist care and reliable information. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would also like to make 13 amendments to this project. I'll just point to the important ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pharmaceutical technicians can be calm. We leave it as it was. The next part of the amendments concerns language errors. An important amendment is also an amendment which takes into account, I apologize, Amendment 10... One sentence, because it's important, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u13	Only, my fellow Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u14	I'm coming down. I'm almost done, but it's important. An amendment which aims to introduce the principle that not a single medicine is subject to an assessment of the appropriateness of the inclusion of a refund other than registration indications... That is, an amendment that makes it easier for the patient to quickly access both the medicine and its generic.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u15	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u16	We have also taken into account the indications, the demands of pharmaceutical manufacturers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u18	According to the Act, we extend the refund period to a maximum of 3 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u19	Thank you, Member. I'm afraid time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u20	Please accept the proposed proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u21	And please take the floor of Mr Mark Hok.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws is a great process by which six major laws within the framework of this amendment will be amended, namely the Act of August 2004 on the provision of health care financed by public funds, the Act on the Refund of Medicines of 2011, the Act of August 1997 concerning the protection of personal data, the Act of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities and the Act of September 2001 concerning pharmaceutical law. This is another fragmented model of the change of this system, which is a very difficult system, complex organizationally, financially, all the more so because we know perfectly from the announcements that since 1 January 2018. The National Health Fund will be liquidated, health funding from the state budget. Therefore, the designer assumes that benefits with failed clinical efficacy or unproven safety will be identified, which generate very high costs on the part of the payer. I think that these possibilities still exist and there is no need for statutory changes, especially since the explanatory memorandum does not state what is the estimated scale of these large benefits with failed clinical performance. The project also obliges providers to cooperate with the Agency in obtaining the necessary personal data free of charge to determine the service tariffs. The already General Data Protection Officer has objected to this project which gives the Health Minister an excessive power to collect and process data. The General Inspector considers that this provision is too broad and inadequate for data processing purposes. The project also included changes to the statute and validity of the entire system of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies. From now on, it will be the Minister of Health who will approve this service tariff and, in particularly justified cases, will be able to change the service tariff without indicating in the explanatory memorandum, even in general, what the legislator means by the concept of justified cases. This will be another transfer from the Minister of Health to the administration of this agency. The proposal also introduces a mandate for the Minister of Health, which will personally shape the composition of the Transparency Council, the Tarification Council, which are the consultative bodies within the Agency for the President. Until now, the dismissals of these members of the councils have been registered by law, indicating a closed catalogue of cases in which they could be dismissed. From now on, it will be the Minister of Health who will assess individually whether a person can continue to be a member or whether he or she should be released. This amendment is due to take place on 30 June 2017. Besides, of course, this is a project that is designed to lead to emergency access to drug technology. Here again, it is necessary to clarify that this project provides that it is the Minister himself, at the request of the patient, who will be able to finance a given drug from public funds, which is not available on the list of medicines reimbursed. And here, of course, once again, we see a lack of transparency, transparency, which has been mentioned so much in the record. Within the framework of these six laws, which will be amended, it has also been tried to introduce into the Pharmaceutical Law a provision which will regulate the availability of medicinal products in the group of hormonal contraceptives for internal use. We know, of course, that this is about the so-called. emergency contraception available without a prescription, which is allowed in all countries of the European Union outside one country which has not benefited from this provision. I don't think it's hard to know that this country is Hungary. Even Malta, which is very restrictive in terms of contraception, introduced this medicine without a prescription. Of course, the legislator talks about excessive use by Polish patients of the consumption of these medicines. The main aim is to rule out the possibility of non-prescription use of emergency contraception. And finally, what your representative of the PiS club tried to tell you about, it's a matter of amendment. This applies to pharmaceutical technicians. The records so far meant that a few thousand people would lose their jobs because these restrictive provisions provided that pharmacy technicians would not be allowed to sell certain components, certain medicines. This involves protesting technicians and the possibility of losing jobs. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] it makes five amendments on matters that we disagree on. I'm putting these amendments into the hands of your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u23	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Kozłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the representatives of the Ministry of Health, but unfortunately the jury is empty. [[I'll tell them, Jurek.]] On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, seym prints no. 1319 and 1488. Now I should refer to the main objectives of the project, such as changes related to the tariff of benefits, strengthening the role of the Minister of Health in the process of determining the tariff of benefits, rescue access to drug technologies, partial refund of drugs not available in Poland, but I cannot, because in this project there is an ideological drop-in, or pill day after day. I'd like to address the Minister, but I have to let go of that, so to speak, into space. Minister, the limitation...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u25	Excuse me, sir. Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz from the Ministry of Health listens to our discussions - and you also listen to Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz from the Ministry of Health, so there is a representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u26	Oh, I see, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, because I was looking at the first jury here. So I can turn around. Minister, restricting access to the so-called. emergency contraception by imposing an obligation to sell pills after a day only on prescription is simply unacceptable. A pill a day after a day is a contraceptive medicine, and even from this point of view you cannot throw this medicine into a situation that if you imagine a logical sequence of events - maybe I shouldn't be talking about it literally, but you have to - when there is a situation between two people who are not for them, let's say, as they wish - let's assume that it will happen on Saturday - they have to look for a doctor on Sunday to write a prescription for this hormonal one, which is true, but a contraceptive medicine. It's illogical, and it's ideology. This is a violation of women's rights and an ideological attack on individual freedom. I called, I mean, most people who were critical of this idea, called at the Health Committee meeting to talk the Minister of Health out of this restriction. But no arguments were made to the Minister of Health, so once again I appeal to common sense. Perhaps something will happen here at the meeting of the Health Committee tomorrow that Polish women will be treated with due respect. Emergency contraception, Minister, as the name suggests, is not a continuous but occasional action when something simply happens. And now consider the side effect of this medicine. The side effect is just pregnancy. Minister, you want to impose your ideology on all Poles. The Minister of Health is a public official. In this capacity, you cannot follow your own personal ideology, imposing it on all Poles. Minister, if I like Pink Floyd, it doesn't mean that all Poles listen to such music. But let's respect the individual's freedom, because we're going in a very dangerous direction. Polish women are responsible and wise. They know how to lead their lives, and I assure you, Minister, they don't need your bans. Now what I said earlier was that it was some kind of smash, but I'm also going to call it a smokescreen, because it covered the whole discussion and we didn't really say anything about the records, either because of which the role of the Minister of Health in setting the benefit tariff is being strengthened very much. It's very dangerous. This is a market that is worth PLN 11 billion, and at the moment the decision-making will be practically one person. I would also like to refer to pharmaceutical technicians who were simply ignored by the Ministry of Health. They asked for meetings, no one wanted to meet them. I am pleased today to hear from the PiS rapporteur that there is an amendment, which in the proposal on pharmacy technicians has annulled. That's good news, but I'm asking the Ministry of Health to express a greater desire to talk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the working environments and meeting with these people. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 cannot support this project because of issues that violate the freedom of Polish women. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u27	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws. The project arouses mixed feelings. On the one hand, verification of medical benefits as to their effectiveness and valuation is a valuable idea. This is a necessary step forward to rationalise healthcare spending. It is also useful to assess solutions to ensure that patients have access to medicines that are not funded by public funds but which are intended to save lives or health in justified cases. By the way, in this regard, despite this project, there is still much to be done, such as solving the problem of medicines that are needed in pharmacovigilance, but have not been registered in Poland by the manufacturer. On the other hand, this project is surprising in the context of the planned changes in health care. Let's assume that the project will be properly processed and the bill will come into force in June this year. The Agency for Medical Technology Assessment and Tarification will start work on verification of benefits, providers will start adapting IT systems in order to be able to fulfil the obligation to provide information about costs, i.e. a lot of money will be spent. But what will happen after six months? The National Health Fund will be abolished and the financing system for healthcare will completely change. We still do not know the details of what this system will look like after the good change that Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł is preparing for us, so it is certainly difficult to assess the validity of the ideas presented in this paper. Finally, I cannot fail to refer to one more change in the project, the one that arouses the greatest emotions, i.e. the ban on the sale of emergency contraception without a prescription. I'll be brief, because it's simple. Emergency contraception is not abortive. There is also no evidence that there is a problem of unjustified consumption of these measures, which was indicated as a justification for this change, and Poland is a religiously impartial country, according to the will of the nation expressed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As long as this change is in the draft law, Members and Members of Modernity will vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u29	Thank you. Time remaining, Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The right to health, the right to decide for themselves and the right to contraception are the rights that the Minister of Health and his subordinates should respect, understand and support. The entire crusade against the pills is based only and exclusively on lies that you try to put in the heads of Poles and Poles. You said the pill was early-poron, you said that Polish women were taking this pill like drops. Both of these statements are lies. This is not an early-resistant product, it is a contraceptive pill, a tablet authorised in 26 countries of the European Union without a prescription, a tablet authorised by the European Commission after consulting the European Medicines Agency. Is the Minister questioning these decisions? The Poles do not use these pills like drops and the Minister of Health was not able to prove this claim at the committee meeting, so I would ask you to withdraw from this claim. You consider yourselves guardians of morality, guardians of our conscience, you believe that you have the right and authority to say what Poles are free and what are not. You treat Poles as if we are brainless, but Minister, we can read leaflets, we can decide about ourselves and we understand what we do with our lives, with our health and the right to decide about ourselves. If you care so much about whether these pills affect us or not, introduce proper sexual education to schools. Explain how to protect yourself, how to lead and plan your family. The only way you can stop us is to get angry. This took place during a black protest and it will take place further, because the Polish people will clearly say that we are not breaking our rights. Trust the Polish people, trust that they know and can decide that we are no dumber than the Dutch than the Germans who have access to these pills despite the lack of a prescription. Once again, Minister, your conscience - your business, but these are our consciences and our decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u31	Please take the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to introduce the position of the club. PSL vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws. It is with great regret that we find that the PiS government cynically ignites another worldview war, three and divides Poles to cover the real consequences of the bill and not fulfilling the promises from the election campaign. The whole discussion in the committee was focused around the introduction of prescriptions for the so-called. an emergency contraceptive tablet. Yes, this is a very important matter, and your decision confirms that you treat women like dark places. However, this is not the most important problem in the context of the planned changes. The world-view war of Minister Radziwiłł turns his attention to the real consequences of poor health care. After all, you know very well that the problem is blown up, and the ellaOne tablet is not an early resistance agent and is very little popular in Poland. I personally talked to many pharmacists in small towns who indicated low sales, that the drug for 150 PLN lies in warehouses sometimes until expired. Meanwhile, we are discussing its availability in the Seym as if it were the only health care problem in Poland. But I have the impression that this drop isn't random. The aim is to divert attention from other provisions of this law, which can be called a bomb thrown into the drug refund system. Namely, after the date of entry into force of the Act, decisions on the refund of a medicine, a food for particular nutritional uses, a medical device will be issued for a limited period of time, up to the age of 5 years, i.e. it is therefore possible to make a decision for a month, for 2 months, per year. Today decisions are issued for a minimum of 2 years, but they can also be spent for 3 and 5 years. This regulation is widespread and depends on individual decisions of the Minister of Health the entire refund process in Poland, worth PLN 11 billion of public money. This will destabilize the system of reimbursement decisions, and negotiations with pharmaceutical companies will be conducted in a unclear way. Why do you not want to introduce a minimum period of reimbursement decisions in order to avoid the situation that they will be issued, for example? For a month? Don't you realize that by introducing this provision, you are violating the stability of the therapy of many sick people? However, this is not the end of controversial provisions of the bill. Today, a protest of pharmaceutical technicians is planned against denying them this right. I understand that following the amendments tabled by Law and Justice - the Polish People's Party has also prepared amendments on this issue - these entries will be rejected. Similarly, the uncomfortable subject concerns the failure to promise elections, the promises from the election campaign. It is worth reminding here that shorter queues, better access to specialist doctors, free medicines for seniors or even liquidation of the NFZ were your flagship ideas. Meanwhile, the queues are getting longer, hospitals and hospitals after the hospital networking bill are preparing for liquidation, seniors at every meeting tell me that free medicines for seniors just don't work that it's blown up, that it's not true. You promised many times, also after winning the elections, the Prime Minister promised that county hospitals would be strengthened, which is not happening. You have spoken many times about the liquidation of the NFZ, while in the bill that we are working on today, you refer several times to the NFZ. I don't know if this NFZ is going to be destroyed or if you're giving up on this record. In this case too, I ask for an answer. Finally, the question from school heads: When will you introduce dental offices to schools? Because it was also one of your flagship ideas in the election campaign. Thank you very much and I am making appropriate amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u33	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Kaminski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Law and Justice was surprised that the public was interested in the context of the law that we are considering today, so-called. day after pills, so-called. emergency contraception. No wonder people are interested in this because the sphere of sexual life for almost every adult is important. It's affecting this most intimate sphere of life. People don't like it, and it's hard for them to be surprised if politicians go into it, even though they shouldn't go into it. I once told you from this stand that this power is obsessed with sex and history. This is another example that I was right. [[Applause]] I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate about pills day after day is not a debate about morality, it is not even a debate about biology. She is a debate about freedom, because this law, what we are talking about, the state we have in Poland today, does not oblige anyone to use this pill. Nobody in Poland is forced to eat a pill the day after a sexual act. Moreover, in Poland there is a very strong institution, it is a The Catholic Church, which enjoys the full support and privileges of the state and has every opportunity to preach its teaching in the field of sexual ethics. For some reason very many Poles, it is about this Catholic majority, and in this area of the Church does not listen. It is not my role to determine whether it is the fault of a science that does not belong to life, or the fault of teachers who are not reliable and their sheep to their teachings are not able to convince them. What Minister Radziwiłł did is part of the broader process that this authority is conducting in a notorious manner: the process of the systemic revolution that you are conducting. The revolution against Polish democracy is accompanied by counter-revolutionary customs. You want to take back the circle of history, you want to take Poland back to the Middle Ages. This is not going to work, which is why you're doing it through the back door, both in the case of legal abortion, in vitro abortion, and in the case of contraception that we're considering today. You are opposed to modernity, you are prisoners of your own fanaticism. What I'm trying to say is this isn't gonna work. Your political revolution will not succeed, your revolution against Polish democracy will not succeed, and your customary counter-revolution against modernity, against the freedom of Poles, against the freedom of Poles and Poles will not succeed. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, near the European Union of Democrats will vote against, because we are in favour of freedom, we are in favour of this most intimate sphere of human sexuality, politicians staying as far away as possible to leave it to people, because they should decide for themselves what is good for them and what is bad for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u35	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. This draft law deals with a number of changes that make it possible to treat patients individually in a particular health situation, which will significantly contribute to equalisation of the availability of treatment for people suffering from rare diseases. Among them there are among others. a procedure for emergency access to drug technologies to enable the Health Minister to grant individual authorisation to cover the costs of a medicine which is not financed by public funds. It is also possible to refund medicines imported from abroad necessary to save the patient's health or life, which are temporarily not available on the Polish market despite their admission to the market in Poland. In addition, the draft law introduces an obligation for medical institutions to provide the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification of reliable and precise cost data, which are necessary to determine the tariff of benefits, and extends the competences of the Agency. According to the new provisions, the Minister of Health, on the basis of a recommendation from the President of the Agency, will be able to change the medical technologies used in the framework of guaranteed benefits so that patients have increased access to benefits with proven clinical efficiency. Most of the proposed changes to the regulation will contribute to improving the quality of treatment in Poland, support patients who have so far had to seek medical assistance on their own, and increase the effectiveness of spending money on treatment. However, I have reservations about the provisions proposed in the Refund Act concerning the period for which refund decisions are issued. The current rigid deadlines laid down in the Act are to be replaced by a flexible period of up to five years, which, according to the applicants, is expected to have a positive impact on the possibility of price negotiations and the adjustment to market developments. I have doubts that such a change will not disrupt the stability of the refund system so far. I am sorry to say that the work of the committee on this project has been dominated by one aspect concerning this amendment, i.e. the availability of the so-called. day after day. It is sad that for populist applause a number of other important solutions are overlooked. The revision we are looking at is a series of substantive changes of key importance for patients who have so far had limited funding opportunities for their treatment. It is worth putting aside the politically colored mantras that are constantly being delivered and focusing on constructive work. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceedings of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u37	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Is any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still willing to join the list? Mr Mieszkowski, right? Question time - one and a half minutes. The first question is asked by Monika Wielichowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u38	High Izbo! Gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! It must be made clear today: once again, the PiS is at war with women, because it limits women's rights and freedoms, this time by restricting access to contraception for Poles. The ellaOne tablet will be prescription and it will be so that if a woman wants to buy a tablet the day after, she will have to go to the doctor the day before. Poland will be the second country in Europe without free access to this measure. The Minister did not speak of health, and ideology during the committee's work spoke of a return to normality, which he understood as: reducing contraception, promoting measures for erection, promoting a clause of conscience, supporting projects that trample on an abortion compromise and promoting premarital calendars. Most of these actions are nothing more than the extension of the abortion underground, and we need to make that clear and clear. You are increasing the abortion underground in Poland. I understand: Minister Radziwiłł's absence today, hidden somewhere in the back, Mr. Deputy Minister, and the fact that there are Polish women from various women's associations who were invited by the Platform yesterday to listen to today's deliberations, but they were not allowed in because you are afraid of the sovereign again, you are afraid of women again. I have a question: When will you stop hating women and the health department take care of health rather than ideology? When you take care of the rise in drug prices [[♪ The bell ♪]] 3.20 PLN per 1350 PLN for transplanted people instead of taking care of women's conscience? When are you guys gonna do the election promise-- the promise of free meds for seniors, because, for now, it's all bullshit? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u39	Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister Tombarkiewicz! You don't hide there, you come closer, you company this project, you come closer, here, to the first bench. Come on in because I have a question for you, and I'm not gonna talk all over the room. [[Applause]] Don't be shy. [[You're welcome, Minister.]] There are women in front of the Seym you won't let back into the Seym because you're afraid, you don't want them to listen to this debate. You're afraid of women, you're afraid of their strength, you're afraid to look them in the eye. You've closed in vitro, and now we've got a tightening of abortion, elimination of perinatal standards. Minister Radziwiłł, yes, your superior, Minister Tombarkiewicz, we will speak by names, on billboards he wants to teach the Polish women when they have fertile and barren days. He wants to teach them natural methods, mucus testing. We are not in the 19th century, and today we are discussing restricting access to a tablet that the whole of Europe knows is not a pill that is harmful, is a tablet after day, which does not lead to miscarriage, but you also forbid women to do so. This is gonna end badly. Not for women, for you. Because you're afraid of them, you're ashamed to even come to this room. The government jury is empty, there's no one to talk to, and the Sejm Office is sending people in uniform who are defending entry from women. Shame and shame! But women can handle it, because we're gonna help them. We men will help Polish women. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u41	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u42	The tablet is completely safe after the day. To the extent that the European Committee on Medicinal Products considered that it does not have to be decided by a doctor and that it can be used properly without the supervision of a gynecologist. More, all medical authorities clearly confirm that the tablet after the day is not an early-opportunity pill, but a contraceptive pill used in emergency situations. The pill after the day of 2009 is fully available without a prescription in the European Union. A year later, it was also introduced into the United States. In Poland, since April 2015, it is also available without a prescription. The alarming thing is that the Polish government, wanting to force the extreme right-wing environment, decided to change this state of affairs without any public consultation. I ask: Why do you want to convict Polish women, add: normal women who want to be sexually active and at the same time want to plan their family honestly, for unplanned, unwanted pregnancies, so great suffering, traumas and real dramas? Why does the Polish government want to deal so brutally with Polish women once again? At their expense, they want to satisfy the extremely right-wing environments, the pro-life environment, which only dream of banning trading completely, and even punishing the marketing of ellaOne pills? In fact, the Polish government [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want to punish some women twice, I mean the weaker, the weaker and the smaller towns. They will no longer have a chance in the new legal order...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u43	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u44	...to get the pill on time. As a woman, I can't agree to that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u45	Member, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u46	...and I would like to express my opposition to the government's actions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u47	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u48	...in terms of lack of access to the pill, day after day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u49	Thank you, Member. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many medicines that have a very strong effect are sold without a prescription. They're painkillers, and they're e.g. Erectile medication. I would like to ask: Does the Ministry plan to introduce prescriptions for such medical measures as well? The tablet we are talking about is taken by people who want to avoid becoming pregnant, so it is a contraceptive tablet where side effects are very low. I wanted to ask: Why, then, is it unnecessary to put a tablet on the list of prescription medications if there is no need for a medical evaluation before taking this tablet? I also wanted to ask for accurate data and information on where these data are taken from regarding the abuse of the tablet. I will ask for accurate information and precise data, because on the basis of this data a draft law and its justification was created. I also wanted to ask the Minister if he knows that in order for the tablet to work effectively, he must be taken at a certain time, and whether he is concerned that the need to consult a doctor will, however, affect the effectiveness of the tablet. I wanted to ask you if the Minister thinks that Polish women are dumber than their colleagues from other countries of the European Union, since he is afraid that we cannot apply our rights properly or take pills without consulting a doctor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u51	Mr Rajmund Miller. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I refer to this law as a law that proves that you do not have a concept of repairing health care, which is that you are actually obsessed with contraception, because this law is an example of contraception. The two previous laws on health care establishments and hospital networks and those which do not treat health care as a whole are proof of this. PiS's obsessive approach to contraception is documented by a prescription contraceptive record. Minister! There is no basis for such measures to be applied by prescription doctors, because we have medicines available in shops, groceries, kiosks, petrol stations that have more recorded side effects, also dangerous to the patient's life. I have a question. Minister, do you want us to sign in, embracing the saying of the marshal and the PiS: all of you are laughing at the saying: all of Europe is laughing at you? I'm not gonna end this because I don't want to insult other people with rhymes. On the other hand, I offer you one thing: sell the provisions of this law to San Escobar. You're not gonna hurt anyone with those records because there's no people there. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u53	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's a very good bill. It is a pity that some preachers of a new Church see only one subject in it without seeing the more important ones. During the work carried out by the Parliamentary Patients' Rights Team, we were able to meet with a problem concerning a number of rare diseases, the lack of public funding of medicines imported from abroad necessary to save health and life, not available in Poland, and admitted to the market in the Republic of Poland in a central procedure. Only those drugs imported from abroad that do not have a marketing authorisation in Poland could be refunded so far. This put the sick and their families in a dramatic situation. My questions. How does the Ministry of Health evaluate the scale of this phenomenon so far? Did many applications for drug imports without refinancing? What will be the scale of financial assistance for the sick, and will there be limits and limitations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u55	Thank you. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the Minister for this extremely important bill, which, in particular in the case of patients with oncology diseases, I hope, Minister, will shorten the time limits within which they will have access to medicines that are not available to them today, and even if they buy these medicines for their own resources, they must look for an establishment, most often private, which will be able to apply such medicine, although its effectiveness in treatment is proven in other countries. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, if this waiting period for treatment with new medications for patients with cancer is reduced. My second question concerns pharmaceutical technicians. Of course, if someone has a profession, they would like to do it. In the case of pharmacy, the issue is extremely important, because pharmaceutical marketing is primarily related to patient safety, to patient safety, which I want to stress very much. And more and more, going to the pharmacy, I see that patient safety is compromised. Patients who constantly buy drugs know that in Warsaw in Mokotów inhabited by 300 thousand. The residents are one pharmacy, one pharmacy, which is a safe pharmacy, operated actually [[♪ The bell ♪]] by professionals. Did the State or Ministry assess the substantive qualification of pharmaceutical technicians to... [[She needs to be locked up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u57	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u58	...participation in the trade of difficult drugs?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u59	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szapka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not a bill, it's not a discussion about health care, it's not a discussion about drugs. This is another law that discusses the vision of the state and the vision of society. This bill shows how you treat the state, how you treat society. It's already come out of that podium today. You treat society like stupid people who can't decide for themselves. For them, you want to make decisions based on ideology. The ideology you want to force all citizens in Poland. Of course, it would be wrong, but half the poverty would be if it were your views and your ideology. No, this is the dictatorship that is being imposed on you, this is the ideology that is being imposed on you by your Torunian primate. He's talking about how it's supposed to be. And the fact that by chance, because this is the electoral ordination, you now have an absolute majority in the Sejm, and that you are doing absolutely all the commands of your primacy from Torun, in fact he is the House of the Polish Parliament, so that in the context of the discussion about the change of the constitution that President Andrzej Duda initiated, perhaps think about somewhere here for Tadeusz Rydzyk being a place in this Sejm. Question two. Don't you think you're hypocrites, because you all know very well that pills after day will be bought by women in Poland, but will be bought online? Aren't you afraid that the abortion suburbs will increase, because you also know very well that this process [[♪ The bell ♪]] will not be interrupted by your ideological solutions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u61	Mr Tomasz Latos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a life-saving medical technology bill. I very much regret that I do not know whether so many people of this law have read it, whether it is simply deliberate treatment of the matter selectively, because it is a law that we should all discuss in agreement, discuss important matters concerning thousands of patients who also come to our parliamentary offices, who are now expressing certain expectations of the Government of Law and Justice, and who previously reported them to the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL, as regards certain specific situations in the health service. And unfortunately, we hardly discuss it at all. I am glad that this law will regulate this matter, because it is consecrated to it. Ladies and gentlemen, as a proof of some openness on our part to all the voices that flow from different backgrounds, I would like to say to you that we have tabled amendments that clarify some important things, such as full transparency, regarding issues related to the reimbursement of medicines - we will be discussing this in the committee tomorrow - or issues relating to pharmaceutical technicians. Notabene to people who weren't in the Sejm two years ago, let me remind you that the issue [[♪ The bell ♪]] The technicians wanted to regulate the Civic Platform and the PSL government in a similar way, Minister Arłukowicz. That's when you pulled out of it, and that's good. Indeed, this matter must be resolved in the context of a major amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u63	Thank you, sir. Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After the black march in which women took part in large cities, but also in small towns, these women return to us. They're on their way back to meetings to talk. And you know what they're asking? They're not asking for a fight, they're asking for a conversation, they're asking for systematic and daily convincing other parliamentarians not to allow you to make decisions about our lives and our everyday lives in suits. And don't let them tell us how to live our lives. Yes, Madame, they are not. And it was women who asked me to remind all of you that our lives are not black and white, that there are gray in it too. But we're smart, reasonable, spontaneous, good. Even though that's what we are, there are unpredictable situations in our lives when feelings and emotions take over, and in these situations we also want to be calm about us and about our safe future. And even if you all conjure reality together, you know perfectly well that such situations will happen, and you have no right to this peace which I have spoken of, to take away from women. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u65	Thank you. And Mrs Margaret Navels, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law extends the role and importance of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification. I wanted to ask: Will the decisions issued by the agency in the form of opinions be binding on the Minister? Will their content be available to everyone? My next question: In which countries of the European Union the tablets we introduce as prescription tablets are prescripted? Doesn't the Ministry notice that once this law comes into force, the grey zone will begin to function in the circulation of this medicine, so that safety will be reduced? And using the presence of a representative of the Ministry, please answer if the Ministry plans to eliminate unpaid blood counts. I ask you to discredit this rumor because we are being asked more and more frequently in the parliamentary offices. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u67	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Jarosław Kaczyński once said that he would like Budapest to be in Warsaw, and indeed PiS is doing everything in its power to achieve this. This is another example. Because the only country where the pill after day is sold on prescription is Hungary. 26 countries allow free circulation of this pharmacological agent, which, contrary to the lies of Law and Justice, is not a miscarriage measure. You've been lying all along. It's just an ideology that sends you all... and rational thinking. For all this I wonder why the state in laws, which are not the worst, because there are many elements that are worth supporting, you put in things that make the opposition have to attack you, because what you are proposing is just complete nonsense. And in a good bill there is one in a row a record that causes you to go out and say, "Look, such a good bill, so many people we want to help, and this ungrateful opposition is just loading us up and blocking such good solutions. You do it perfectly, with full awareness of what you want to achieve. It's just one big scam and a scam against this society. You are already leading to such absurd solutions that I will not be surprised that the next idea will be that a man who wants to buy money for his potency will have to come to the pharmacy with his own wife. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u69	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill deals with many things, many things, but two are very shocking. One, emergency pill. We did not get an answer during the committee meeting, why the contraceptive pills, including the tablet we are talking about, the emergency tablet, must be registered as prescription pills. There are no other types of medicines that are actually lifesaving, but they can be very toxic and very harmful - the bill does not state that this type of medical preparation is to be prescription. What's with the concept that you're doing this kind of breach? I ask for an answer because we have asked you several times in the committee and we have not received an answer. And the second point, an amendment that was already made in the course of this bill. You're restricting the laws of not only pharmaceutical technicians you're actually eliminating, but you're leading a patient who's going to a pharmacy, a pharmacy run by a pharmaceutical technician, to have no access to a certain category of drugs. To make things funnier, there's no legal category that you put in this bill. You're so inaccurate, you can't even properly write it down in the bill. On the one hand, by an increase from 3.20 to 1350, you cause that other medicines [[♪ The bell ♪]] toxic, those that protect the patient from transplant rejection are not available, and on the other hand, there are no other drugs in the pharmacy because the owner of the pharmacy limits the right to have this medicine. Minister, where is the Polish patient?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u71	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u72	In the name of what are you doing this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u73	Thank you kindly. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In our beautiful, patriarchal, national country, of course, there can be no place for such an area of freedom for women. Women shouldn't be free. They should be enslaved precisely, they should be excluded from social space, they should be completely marginalised. In fact, we should take away women's rights because, in fact, why do women need any rights? You treat our Polish people as individuals, as a group of people with social disabilities. I do not understand why you are so determined to deny the Polish people the right to use... the right to decide about your body, your future, your thinking. Polish women really have a high imagination, they can think great and decide for themselves. Don't do it for them. Therefore, I have a question for you: Is it one of the many ideas for Poland to become an absurd and anachronistic country that we all know very well about, but also women's rights in this case? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u75	And the last question is asked by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! - absent, unfortunately. It is a pity that in such an important debate, a person who has told so many lies and lies publicly about the ellaOne pill has decided not to participate, and I mainly have questions addressed to Minister Radziwiwiłł, because, as I said, too much is wrong. I'm not gonna tell you again that it's not an early-opportunity tablet, it's a contraceptive pill. There's concrete evidence for that. You need to know exactly what she's doing to know that. On the other hand, I wanted to ask the Minister when he was going to apologize to the women for saying that he thoughtlessly, with a handful, they were taking pills day after day and that is why this tablet cannot be available without a prescription. So far, repeatedly asked, he has not put forward any concrete argument for this thesis, which would prove it, any research that would prove it. And, by the way, I also wanted to ask the Minister if the Ministry is planning some kind of control of the pharmacy network, because we have reports from patients that some drugstores, by obscuring their conscience, do not want to sell contraceptives, including [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tablets The day after that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u77	Thank you, Member. On this question, we ran out of a list of people who were put in the voice. And that is why I ask you to speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very bad that the whole discussion both in committee and today is focused on one drug, and in fact the law brings with it a lot of very good solutions for patients. But if that's the case, then of course I'm going to answer those questions that aren't in mine... and I'm not going to answer questions that, in my opinion, are rhetorical questions. Nobody fights in the Ministry of Health or in the government with women, no one wants to restrict women's rights. One at a time. As regards the increase in prices from 3.20 to 1 000. or 1300, this is the effect of the reimbursement law adopted in 2011, which has been in force since 2012. Well, when there's a new equivalent on the market, cheaper, it's usually a generic drug that adds up to 15%. consumption, then it is the basis of the limit. Therefore, this generic medicine is available for a price of 3,20 and the addition of the patient to the original medicine usually increases to several hundred zlotys, several thousand. This has been the case several times over the last years, such a mechanism has functioned. This is a normal mechanism enshrined in the 2011 Refund Act, so please do not complain that such situations occur. He's available... [[What about the characters for the children, Minister?]] Please? [[Children's characters.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u79	Please don't argue with the Minister, he'll answer questions. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: I'm talking about the principle. I understand where you're going with this, but I'm talking about the principle. [[But we know her.]] We had a similar situation last summer, and then we decided to move it to chemotherapy, hospital medicine, to eliminate these subsidies, painful subsidies for patients. This situation is fresh and we are also analysing a similar mechanism. As far as consumption data are concerned, now we need to get back to the ellaOne tablet. Data according to IMS Pharma Scope. In 2014, when ellaOne was prescribed, there were 10 127 tablets in use. Since April 2015, it has been non-prescription. Data for 2015-165 958, for 2016-227 113 tablets, plus 11 658 from parallel imports, i.e. an increase of 23 times. I think it's pretty hard data that an emergency contraception tablet has become a systemic contraceptive for most women, not the point. And these are the only main data... [[How do you know that? Maybe it came out of the underworld. That's the data on your face.]] No, these are data from... No. But you're welcome, my fellow Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: These are specific data. You asked for the source. IMS Pharma Scope. Why on prescription? This is the first part of the answer. The second is that there are no other hormonal drugs taken orally without a prescription in Poland. Therefore, we do not think that the only drug should be removed from this regulation. Therefore, we believe that it should be a prescription medicine. It takes up to 5 days to consult your doctor within 5 days. At the same time, the package leaflet is supplied with the medicine. I would like to point out that according to this leaflet some medicines may inhibit the effective effect of ellaOne tablets. If you have used any of the following medicines in the last 4 weeks, the product may not be suitable. Your doctor may prescribe another type of emergency contraception, e. g. The cartridge. Here are the medicines used to treat epilepsy, infections, fungal infections, but there are also herbal medicines containing e.g. St. John's wort. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking ellaOne if you are taking or have recently taken any of these medicines. This is the answer to the fact that you should go to a doctor for advice. The situation here referred to Malta is as follows: yes, it is available without a prescription, but after consulting the pharmacist. So the pharmacist needs to talk to the woman who comes in and wants to buy this pill, explain the possible risks, drug interactions, and that's the kind of drug that gets sold to the patient. As far as further elements are concerned, in the part concerning RDTL in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, the amount of PLN 10 million per year is recorded. These are the money spent from the National Health Fund, which will be liquidated. But this bill doesn't prove it. It will be a law on national health services, which will describe the entire process of liquidation of the National Health Fund, as well as the legal consequences after liquidation. Therefore, the fact that there are references to the NFZ in this law is actually normal. This 10 million will be spent on the National Health Fund or its successor. Therefore, if financial needs prove to be higher, this amount may be increased. Why is it so important? Custom chemotherapy, i.e. a kind of predecessor of this system, which we want to introduce, was terminated in 2014. And for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 we continue this therapy for patients. However, there is currently no possibility that such rescue access to medicines that are not refunded at the moment could be used. This has often been raised both in parliamentary interpellations and in patients' writings, so we think that this is very good. As I say, this 10 million is the initial amount that was estimated on the basis of the costs of non-standard chemotherapy, and this amount may be increased depending on the needs of course. As far as the ability to estimate, shorten queue time is concerned, this is not possible at the moment. However, I would like to say that these provisions on the RDTL provide very short deadlines for both the examination of applications and the opinion of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and the Tarification of Benefits. This opinion is only needed if the cost exceeds the provisions of the Refund Act. If it does not exceed, then it is a simplified procedure. At the same time, this law forces and these amendments made by us force the drug manufacturer that if the drug is given a positive opinion, i.e. is effective in treatment, after a period of 3 months of treatment, and the doctor's evaluation is positive, the manufacturer of the medicine is obliged to submit a refund application. So it can't be a kind of circumvention of the refund bill. That's what the refund bill is for, to carry out the whole process of analysis, negotiation. And this is extremely important. Therefore, all manufacturers of medicines that prove effective will be obliged to submit a request for a refund process within a short period of time. With regard to the opinions of the medical technology assessment agency, everything is clearly enshrined in the refund bill and is not here... It is clear that the Minister of Health must take into account as many as 13 different aspects, including the opinion of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification and the opinion of the Transparency Board, when making a refund decision on such or on such matters. He must take them into account in order to make such a decision, and absolutely nothing changes in this matter. I don't know how you're gonna tell me how you're gonna get rid of a free morphology, in which context... It's hard for me to say, but in general, of course. We have absolutely no intention of taking free research if they are. On the contrary, we believe that, as part of the balance sheet proposed for POZ, the balance sheet of people aged 50 years or later should be mandatory. Similarly, a morphological examination should also be mandatory, even screening - one of the cheaper tests on the market, which can give you a diagnosis of many diseases that later require very heavy, expensive treatment. Anyway, there was a similar discussion in the group... Recently there have been several meetings with hematooncologists and such conclusions we think are appropriate, so that's all about free morphology. I don't know what kind of program she's supposed to be in, and I hope it's a mistake. As far as pharmaceutical technicians are concerned, today I met with representatives of pharmaceutical technicians, we agreed to meet again, so that it is not that we avoid meetings. The appeal, which was addressed by pharmaceutical technicians, came to an unfortunate time of a long weekend in Poland and this meeting could only take place today, but we remain in dialogue. The amendments tabled do not restrict the rights of pharmaceutical technicians as to the possibility of issuing... [[They're limiting it right now.]] ...specific drugs. What was proposed was amended by this amendment. At the same time, the open issue for further discussions with technicians, representatives of the profession of pharmaceutical technology is the continuation or... In 2014, it was decided to suspend further training in pharmaceutical technology - the last recruitment is now due in 2017/2018. We're open to talk. Today, there is a proposal to introduce undergraduate education and this seems to be a very good proposal that we will continue to work on. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u80	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I don't think I've gotten the answer to the question of why there's this particular category of additional article that treats birth control drugs in a unique way. I understand that one of the Members of the Minister's political background, Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, said that this provision is part of the family policy of Law and Justice. Amazing, but in that case, Minister, since you cannot answer today, which is understandable, I ask you to answer in writing. On the other hand, the second thing concerns pharmaceutical technicians. I think, Minister, you didn't understand my intentions. My point is that you should accept our amendment today, which removes the provision on changes in sales at pharmacy points run by pharmaceutical technicians. Yes, it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am positive about what the Minister said, because there is no such thing as a list of substances very strongly...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u81	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u82	... acting on the official list of medicinal products. Please accept the amendment and talk to the technicians to actually...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u84	...to find consensus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u85	Thank you, Member. I'm sorry to say that it wasn't a corrigendum, it was an additional question, but thank you. Is the rapporteur of the committee... [[Thank you.]] Thank you. The Minister wanted an additional answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam, the official list of medicinal products is, there is no list there A. List A of highly active substances (poisons) is located in the Polish Farmakopeia. The first version was as if I were just referring to the place where that list is located. I would like to remind you that Farmakopea Poland is an exact translation of European Farmakopeia. It was published in 2006, the first supplement was published in 2007, and every year there is a thorough translation and revision of both pharmacopoeia and individual lists. As the record says about the substance, the threat was that having access to the substance, the technician could, without the authority to do the drug, make some mistake. But I'm not talking about substances, I'm talking about ready-made preparations that contain a given... [[Then we must rewrite this amendment, Minister. Please accept the amendment and sit down for the talks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u87	Thank you, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Marek Tombarkiewicz: Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform the High House that a group of firefighters from Starogard Gdansk are listening at the gallery. The group came to us at the invitation of Mr John Kilian. Very kind of you firefighters to welcome. [[Applause]] and I have a need to reassure both firefighters and I think all of us present in this Chamber that Mr Meysztowicz's fears are unlikely to threaten us, i.e. We can be calm. Thank you. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] The discussion is closed. As amendments to the draft law submitted were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy (prints No 1481 and 1503). I ask Mr Jan Duda to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy, print No 1481. The draft, following the presentation, discussion and general discussion, was welcomed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, following its first reading on 20 April 2017. The committee's report is contained in print No 1503. Therefore, on behalf of the committee of the High House, I ask that the draft Print Act No 1481 be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u89	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask Mr Piotr Olszówka to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is my honor to present my position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. The provisions of the government draft law amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy from print No 1481 will contribute to the development of agricultural and forestry education. Thanks to the Act, local government units and state administrations running this type of school will gain access to money under the 2014-2020 guidelines for many activities covered by the transfer of knowledge, as well as information activities in this field. The most important activities covered by the Act are as important and improving the quality of training activities as those related to support for the development of vocational training in the field of agricultural and forestry activities, management, technology and organisation of production on the farm, including organic production, labour safety, marketing, accounting, farm insurance, the use of financial instruments, environmental protection and climate, including the use of renewable energy sources, the use of information and communication technologies, cooperative activities, the creation and functioning of producer groups, shortening the food chain. Under the sub-measures: support for demonstration projects and information activities will be provided for demonstration activities to promote and disseminate innovative solutions and good practices by enabling farmers or forest owners to familiarise themselves with solutions that have already been adapted and can be used in the agricultural, forestry or agri-food sectors. In particular, demonstration projects will be open to technology and organisation of production, processing of agricultural products produced on the farm and environmental and climate protection solutions. So they meet the challenges of civilization and increase the innovation of Polish farms. Selection of beneficiaries under the action: Knowledge transfer and information activities will take place transparently, through competitions for the preparation and implementation of training operations which will be announced separately for each sub-action, taking into account the principles of equal treatment and fair competition. The Law and Justice Club fully supports print project No 1481. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u91	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Leszek Ruszczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I have the honour to present my position on the proposal for a Print Act No. 1481. In print No 1481 we have a proposal for a government bill amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. It introduces e.g. the possibility of planning in the budgets of local self-government units and in the budget of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development budgetary expenditure for the implementation of Union projects for agricultural schools, forestry schools, lifelong learning centres, practical and other public advisory bodies in the framework of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, 2014.2020: Transfer of knowledge and information activities. The law in this respect amends the provisions on the need to budget as it has been, from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the form of a loan, i.e. we also avoid interest. Such a solution will help local authorities, but also beneficiaries, and it can really lead to greater development. We are the Civic Platform for this solution. But it is a good time and place for the opposition, which customarily had the right and duty to question the rulers, how they solve problems of Poles, to ask a few questions. And I use this right, I ask: Why do you not pay direct payments to Polish farmers? Don't you have any money? Are there no people available to prepare these subsidies? Because you fired the professionals. Tell me openly where the money is for the farmers. Polish farmers also want to hear the answer to the question when direct payments will be like in other countries, as you promised in the election campaign. One more question. How will the Polish government save the functioning of agricultural markets in the event of a sudden fall in cereal prices currently on the market? How is the government prepared for the revision of the common agricultural policy 2014.2020? What government set targets and priorities for direct payments to farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u93	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I begin to present our position, I would like to tell Mr Ruszczyk that there will be a committee meeting on direct payments today, so I invite you. I think that's where the answer's gonna be. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. The aim of the Act is to introduce the possibility of planning expenditure from the State budget for agricultural schools for pre-financing operations carried out under the action: Transfer of knowledge and information activities covered by the 2014 I take the changes proposed by the government as a further step towards restoring the position and importance of agricultural schools for rural development, for youth education, the acquisition of agricultural qualifications and expertise in farming, animal breeding, mechanisation, management of the farm. About the mid-1990s, there has been a gradual decrease in the number of pupils in agricultural schools. First, the number of branches began to be reduced, transformed into other directions, and eventually schools in rural areas were liquidated. With the entry of Poland into the European Union and the emergence of the possibility to benefit from EU funds, agricultural education has again become very attractive. Today, a farmer is a profession that requires the right knowledge and skills. Polish farmers are energetic, imaginative people who, thanks to the experience of their parents and grandparents, solid education and a new approach to agriculture, are the drivers of the development of Polish agriculture. Therefore, ensuring the quality and level of knowledge is extremely important for the development of Polish agriculture, for preparing farmers for finding themselves on the national market and for meeting competition in European and global markets, and also, equally important, for gaining the ability to adapt flexibly to dynamically changing social, economic and economic conditions. According to the government, the entry into force of the proposed law will have a positive impact on the situation and regional development. With the possibility to make early use of EU and national resources allocated to the RDPs 2014,-2020, it will be possible to start the operation without having to wait for reimbursement of expenditure incurred from the paying agency. In my view, the law should not raise any doubts, and I would therefore like to state that Kukiz15 supports the government's proposed change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u95	Thank you, sir. And Mr Mark Sawicki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, the bill under discussion raises no greater doubts about the club of the Polish People's Party. You'd say it's better late than never. The questions asked by the Member of the Civic Platform are still up to date. I think it is time to speed up issues relating to the implementation of the RDPs, and this law should actually help speed up the preparation of beneficiaries, as well as the institutions, bodies responsible for the common agricultural policy. So I want to make it clear that we are in favour of this law, but at the same time we have serious concerns about issues related to the implementation of direct payments. Agri-environment payments and environmental payments are particularly at risk today. Time may also verify all these data, such as the cost of building and managing the IT system. Finally, such an appeal to the Minister of Agriculture to accept numerous appeals and requests from agricultural organisations and farmers themselves to ensure that this particular year, when we have not only frosts but also huge rainfall... In many regions of Poland, both in me, Podlasie and in northern Poland, spring sowings are not yet completed, farmers must change their decisions due to delayed deadlines, they do not know exactly what crops should be entered in the applications. So maybe it's worth it, like the previous two years, once again, to extend the deadline for farmers to submit applications from 15 May to 15 June so that farmers can submit complete applications? Especially since the Commissioner for Agriculture, Phil Hogan, announced that he would announce this possibility. The Commissioner's order on this matter may already be appropriate tomorrow, so it would be good for our agricultural minister to appeal to farmers and extend the deadline for submitting these proposals as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Henning-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law aims to make it possible to plan expenditure from the state budget for pre-financing for local government units and government administrations that run agricultural schools. That is true, we have in many areas unused European funds in time, so speeding up the pace is definitely needed here. Pre-financing is intended to cover measures under the action: Transfer of knowledge and information activities of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 The proposal does not extend as such the list of entities that will be able to benefit from funding. Aid will be granted for training operations aimed at developing the knowledge, professional skills of farmers or forest owners in the field of agricultural and forestry activities. Here, of course, we must first of all ensure the transparency of competitions and equal access for citizens to these competitions, as well as directly to funds. On this occasion, it is not really possible to ask what is happening at the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, in connection with numerous questions addressed to my parliamentary offices by the Wielkopolska farmers, which have started to come in after numerous press reports about the problems of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture with the implementation of new computer systems, which may result in late payments to farmers which are already received and, even worse, the imposition of financial penalties by the European Commission to Poland. I asked for the Agency's IT system for the first time at the end of 2015 or at the most at the beginning of 2016. The Minister then assured me, directly, personally, perhaps even Minister Jurgel, that this IT system works or is being implemented with some delay, because the previous government left a very big mess in this area, but everything is under control and the Ministry actually ensures that the system will be implemented on time. To this day, we are informed that there are still problems with this system, that this problem has not been resolved all the time, and that the system in the agency has not been implemented so as to serve farmers efficiently. So I wanted answers to a few questions. Is the Agency still having problems implementing new computer systems? If so, what does it really come from? When, for how much and from whom were the systems purchased, the introduction of which we now have a problem, so long dragging? Has the purchase contracts set a strict deadline for the entry into service of the systems and for which it is designated? Have the agreements defined in detail the responsibilities of the parties for putting this system into practice? Who does this responsibility lie with? Has the Ministry under Mr Jurgiel taken legal action to enforce these deadlines? If so, what and when can we expect any results? Which officials of the Ministry and agency are responsible for overseeing this operation? We know that there are personal changes there. We are afraid, in the end, of blurring the responsibility for this process. Is there a deadline for the start-up of the system and for which it actually falls? Because the deadline that the Minister mentioned earlier has already passed. Are payments of benefits at risk and applications for their payment? If so, to what extent and scale can they apply to farmers? Does this apply to all agricultural activities carried out or to individual groups? If so, what is it? Are there real problems with the Agency's payment of direct and environmental payments for 2016? What's the delay scale? How many individual farmers and farmers have they experienced? What amount and in what percentage has it been implemented at the moment? Let me remind you that, at the beginning of the year or at the end of last year, we voted on a quick revision of the budget, which was supposed to be 75%. payments before the end of last year. Meanwhile, we are talking about very far-reaching delays. Is according to media reports [[♪ The bell ♪]] The delays I was talking about could result in financial penalties imposed by the European Commission on Poland? And is it true that these penalties can reach even PLN 1 billion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u99	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current version of the Rural Development Programme shows that the beneficiaries of the aid referred to in the project may be local government and government units, such as agricultural or forestry schools or lifelong or practical training centres, rather than schools and centres themselves, which are budgetary units. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister: Shouldn't the provisions of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 be modified first, and if this is not necessary, should this be noted in the justification for the draft law? In my opinion, it should be. I will also ask whether the draft of this law has been submitted to the European institutions, including the European institutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Central Bank. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the questions I wanted to ask have already been asked in the course of the club speeches, but basically they come down to one thing: not even the best agricultural policy is enough if its implementation is limped if the dispatchers and those responsible for this policy focus on its implementation only by means of personalities. I wanted to ask: Is it true that payments are currently at risk, that farmers complain about the way they operate, about the mess, among others. at the agency, resulting, inter alia, from those personal purges that the resort focused on and didn't see anything outside? Clearly, the policy of replacing people with more of ours is not enough. We still need to replace people, if we're going to replace them, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For people who have any idea what they're doing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Kostusz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u104	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask: How is this draft law, an important, necessary, meeting the expectations of farmers, local self-government units, all those involved in cooperation in the field of agriculture, located in agricultural chambers? In other words, will agricultural chambers be able to benefit from pre-financing for EU projects in the RDPs in action: Transfer of knowledge and information activities, and under what conditions, what are the criteria? That's the first question. And second question. I repeat here the words of my previous speakers. I would like to point out that on 4 May, EU Commissioner Hogan announced that he was extending the deadline for submitting direct payment applications until 15 June. So why didn't the Minister of Agriculture extend the deadline for our Polish farmers? What are the reasons for this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your reply and please also in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u105	Thank you very much. The list of Members enrolled in the task of the question has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By force, this is not a department that I oversee directly at the Ministry of Agriculture. A colleague, Minister Zarudzki, is in Brussels. For this reason, I have to act as his replacement. Thank you for this discussion. First of all, I would like to thank you for this efficient procedure over this bill. Thank you to all the clubs. The agreement is that this law opens maybe not the gate, but the door to the fact that entities such as agricultural schools, which are under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, but also local government schools can benefit from the money that is in the RDP. That money wasn't mentioned here today. I would like to inform you that in the period 2017 to 2020 this will be the amount of PLN 37 million which will be used and used for the implementation of the action: Transfer of knowledge and information activities. You have raised a number of questions that I cannot answer. With regard to such specific questions as the representative has put to you, the modern lady has... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I can get it in writing.]] ...I don't have a chance of making dates, terms, that's all I'm putting forward today. So the specific questions that have been raised will be answered in writing. I'm going to refer to some of the issues that you've been discussing in the club speeches or in those questions. The main concern for payments was here. There's a committee meeting tonight. Mr. Chairman was talking about it. That's where the details will be given. I just want to say that on May 5th, the decisions were issued at over 96%, while payments were made at around 92%. So I'm going to say, the kind of whining that's there, and the kind of whining that you don't do anything... Here one of the messengers said that we only do staff exchanges, and that we do not do substantive tasks. Those gauges that I gave a percentage, that's exactly what they're saying. These people just work, and they work very hard. It is true that they are, I would not say: problems, but little problems with the IT system, over which the agency and the contractor of this system, practically, have constant control. With information from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, I would like to inform you that the deadline for payment of payments is not at stake. May I remind you that this is the end of June. Of course, we do everything we can to maximize speed and end this, not wait until June 30th. There were also other questions or even statements. Commissioner Hogan gave a clear signal that it would be possible to extend the time limits for the adoption of applications until 15 June. I'm telling you that most likely, because I can't 100% Tomorrow, Minister Krzysztof Jurgel will decide what the situation will be. By 7 May, if I remember correctly, acceptance of applications was at the level of approx. 47%. Today is May 10th, so every day is a constant change. As I said, perhaps tomorrow, Minister Jurgiel will decide whether to extend or maintain. The extension also involves... We understand the situation in agriculture right now, what's happening. Weather anomalies actually cause very big problems when it comes to decisions taken by farmers themselves, but any extension of the deadline, we must also be aware, is delaying this proposal: I have one more month, I can still wait this month. That's why this decision is quite difficult. Tomorrow we'll have a report, actually today, at the end of the day, we'll have a report on what the situation is when it comes to applying for 10. Tomorrow they'll probably decide what to do next. The deadline, as you know, is approaching inexorably. Agreed on the Minister. We're doing everything we can, Minister, to speed things up in the RDPs for the years 2012-2014. Soon the Minister responsible, Minister Zarudzki, will present this calendar in detail. I was talking about systems. The decline in prices in the markets. Each year there are different types of fluctuations in prices on agricultural markets. For this, in practical terms, neither this nor the previous governments can be fully responsible. These are market games that make these ups and possibly downs. I hope they're not too high. I won't have to answer that in detail. Transparency of competitions - Madam from Modern. There is a document here in front of me: a regulation by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on specific conditions for this law. Here it is all very detailed how these competitions will be conducted, scored, everything will be transparent. I can't imagine it would be any different. However, we must bear in mind that all actors may be admitted to this operation. We're opening a school entrance here, but every subject will have to be treated evenly if they apply for the competition. The Minister announces the operation, the proposals are adopted by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, where these proposals will be evaluated, the announcement will have to be specific information, for which the score has been allocated in such a dimension rather than another dimension. So I am not afraid here, and the social factor will certainly also watch over it. You're talking about this penalty of 1 billion. I can't imagine we're paying that kind of punishment. I repeat, from the information we have, we should make it on time. That's pretty much it. Once again, I would like to thank you very much for the rapid path of amending this law, which, I repeat, will lead to the fact that this pre-financing will take place, so it will open opportunities for agricultural schools, those under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, and those under the supervision of the local government. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u107	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the agricultural tax law and the Act on local taxes and charges (prints no. 1232 and 1507). I ask Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report for print no. 1232 on behalf of the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. It is a draft law on amending the agricultural tax law and the law on local taxes and charges. The contested provisions clarify the principle of joint and several liability for tax obligations where the subject-matter of the tax is in the joint ownership of persons, one or more of whom are exempt or not subject to tax. The Commission's proposals after work are as follows: the tax obligation should be borne jointly and severally only by those co-owners who are subject to tax and are not exempt from tax in so far as they correspond to their total share of ownership rights. The proposed amendment is neutral for the current legal situation and does not affect the level of tax burden. It is tidy and will therefore have a positive impact on taxpayers and tax authorities. Until now, the applicable law has referred to a tax obligation jointly and severally spread across all joint owners or holders. Such joint and several liability concerned both the entity, the tax liability of the debtors and the party concerned, i.e. the tax due. The judgments of the administrative courts showed the line that joint and several liability of the joint owners for tax obligations does not preclude the exercise of the statutory right to exemption from the tax obligation. The existence of a tax exemption should therefore result in this situation being taken into account in determining the amount of the tax liability. It cannot be that joint and several liability of joint owners for real estate tax obligations prevents the exercise of the statutory right to reduce the tax obligation. The joint committees ask the High House to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u109	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u110	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the agricultural tax Act and the Act on local taxes and charges, the original print No 1232. The combined report of the committees contained in print No 1507 extends the title of the law to the Forest Tax Act and therefore adds the article. 3 concerning the Forest Tax Act of 30 October 2002, which, according to the Government's proposal, has been supplemented by changes, similar to those mentioned in the two above, in terms of joint and several liability for tax obligations. The proposed amendments to the Agricultural Tax Act, the Local Taxes and Charges Act and the Forest Tax Act contain proposals which will eliminate doubts in the application of the law in such a way that the principle of joint and several joint ownership of real estate is limited where one or more joint owners are exempt from the obligation to pay agricultural tax, property tax or forestry tax. So far, some of the tax authorities, mostly municipalities, have misapplyed the applicable law. The proposed law contains a proposal in line with the current case law and the interpretation of the Ministry of Finance. Its essence is the introduction of a statutory standard according to which the principle of joint and several liability for agricultural tax or property tax obligations will not apply where one or more co-owners are exempt from payment of one of those taxes. In such a situation, the tax obligation will be jointly and severally imposed on joint owners not exempt from the obligation to pay the tax, and the amount of that obligation will correspond to the total share of those joint owners in the property right. The proposed law has no significant impact on public finances. There are cases in the country where co-owners pay property tax on the whole property usually occur when the amounts are small, because in such cases it is not profitable for the injured co-owner to refer the case to the court. The draft law removes a provision that is the source of many unnecessary court proceedings, thus extending the waiting period for judicial decisions in other cases. In view of the economic impact of the proposed regulation, particular attention should be paid to the fact that certainty in the way property is taxed is an important factor in the conclusion of a real estate purchase contract. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law on the amendment of the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the Forest Tax Act contained in print No 1507, which is a report of the joint committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform will support the Commission's draft law on amending the Agricultural Tax Act, the Local Tax Act and the Forest Tax Act. The proposed solutions make the law transparent and easy to interpret, so there are legal and material grounds for adopting this project. The bill is analyzed by the Committee on Petitions of the Polish Parliament for a petition sent to the Polish Parliament by the Housing Cooperative Designer based in Rzeszów. The purpose of the proposed law is to formulate the provisions of the Agricultural Tax Act and the Local Tax and Tax Act and the Forest Tax Act so that the principle of joint and several joint liability of the property owners is limited when one or more joint owners are exempt from the obligation to pay agricultural tax, property tax or forestry tax. It is apparent from the existing rules that the co-owner of the real estate together with the municipality or the State Treasury is in practice obliged to pay a tax calculated on the whole property and thus, in fact, to pay for the co-owner exempt from the obligation to pay the tax. This created a lot of embarrassing situations for the taxpayer. Thus, the draft law under examination changes the previously unclear, opaque, inaccurate tax legislation. It is worth noting that the bill received a positive recommendation from the government, as well as the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland, so the Civic Platform will also support this project. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of Kukiz15 in relation to print 1507, on which work, as shown by the practice of committee work, was in accordance with and even at the stage of the subcommittee there were no problems. Moreover, at work, we went towards extending it to include suggestions from the government party in order to get things straight, to make life easier for citizens. It is a good thing that these works have been undertaken, all the more so because it is an initiative that came from the inhabitants, because it is the result of the petition of the cooperative from Rzeszów. It is good that the House is leaning on the petition, sees the legitimacy and, moreover, we are moving towards solving the problem, not supporting unfortunate legislation that complicates lives more and exposes taxpayers to losses and possible legal cases. The Kukiz Club15 will continue to support the work on this printing. We believe that this is the right direction. I hope that the High House will adopt the legislation already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The bill is a response to the initiative addressed to the Sejm by the Housing Cooperative Designer based in Rzeszów. This petition came to the Committee on Petitions, which found the problem put forward to be justified and decided to prepare a project that we are still working on today. This is the best proof that it is worth taking bottom-up citizens' initiatives, seeing the disability and inconsistencies in the state's operation, because today, this is the problem that we have to solve. As a result of this amendment, joint joint ownership of agricultural land and owners of real estate for the payment of taxes on these land and real estate is to be abolished. It is apparent from the current rules that an entity which is co-owner of such land or property together with the municipality or the Treasury is in practice obliged to pay a tax calculated on the whole of the property and not only its part. In fact, this also means payment for a co-owner exempt from the obligation to pay this tax, i.e. the municipality or the Treasury. It is currently the case that both the court caselaw and the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance state that the amount of tax should be calculated according to the shares held in the case of the land or property concerned and not on the whole of the property. Unfortunately, tax authorities are doing their job and often present a completely different position in the calculation of this tax. The problem seems to be a handful of people who pay small amounts of this tax and have the majority of their shares, but the problem needs to be resolved, even though it is on a small scale, because the courts have no need to deal with these matters later. Most of these cases actually go to the courts where they are won by our citizens. For many years in Poland we have observed an excessive burden on the courts of cases which are quite unnecessary, since both the court caselaw and the interpretations of the Ministry of Finance are clear in these cases. There's no reason not to straighten this out. Tax authorities will also have to adapt to this situation. We can therefore actually harmonise the rules and show that such a difference in the application of the law by tax authorities is completely inadequate with regard to the interpretation of the Ministry of Finance that it is unnecessary that we can eliminate it. I have already said at an earlier stage that, of course, this project in an important way, which cannot be overlooked, can deprive the local government of its influence. To this day, we have not counted this money in the case of local governments. We don't know what that's going to be. I think that we really should count it, and then, if it turns out to be a significant amount, we should try to give it back to local governments in some way. However, given the merits of this project, the fact is that it solves a rather important problem, first and foremost affecting citizens themselves, can make life easier for them, because citizens will not have to go to court for their rights to pay taxes on their property, not on the property of the municipality or the Treasury. The Modern Club, of course, will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u118	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party has declared, like other representatives, that it will support this project. I also have the opportunity to work in the Committee on Petitions, where a request has been made for the regulation of this legal contradiction, of the legislative error that has so far been in operation, namely, as the previous speakers said, that the co-owner of the plot, the real estate, also the forest plot, which is not exempt from tax, must pay the whole tax, also for the part of the co-owner affected by the exemption. This regulation is very good regulation. She undoubtedly eliminates the legal gap that existed and which may not concern some huge crowd of Poles, but is quite important. It is also interesting, by the way, that the proposal addressed to the Committee on Petitions has already been accepted in the committee itself. We have decided to prepare and refer the draft law in this area to work, the Commission's draft law, which shows that citizens' initiatives should be submitted to the Polish Parliament, because in matters of importance, they find acceptance of the apolitical Committee on Petitions in legitimate matters. This example clearly shows this. I am also pleased that I have the opportunity to work in the Committee on Petitions, because I was the one who led this project in the Committee on Petitions, to see its final implementation. Once again, I will stress that due to the importance of this project and its validity, the club of the Polish People's Party will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u119	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the opinion of local authorities, joint and several responsibility has both disadvantages and advantages. During the committee's work, changes were also extended to forest tax. The tax obligation will be jointly and severally imposed on joint owners not exempt from the obligation to pay the tax. The amount of this commitment will correspond to the total share of those co-owners in ownership rights. The changes will affect local government budgets, although it is not known how important this will be. I wanted to ask you again: Is the position of local governments in relation to these changes known? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am convinced that the elimination of rules that are contrary to the principles of social co-existence, on the other hand, which violate constitutional standards in my view and which imply a number of unnecessary judicial proceedings, should be our common objective. To date, the principle was that the amount of the liability for the entire property was fixed without any deduction for the co-owners exempt from tax. It was in the case of housing cooperatives which were co-owners of the land together with the municipality that in practice accounted for the charging of the whole area tax, which undoubtedly resulted in increased rent fees, while in terms of the effects of the planned change I would like to ask: Is its approximate impact on public finances known? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u123	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer these two questions which have been addressed to the government, I would like to inform you that, firstly, the Rural Union has given a positive opinion on this project and has responded positively to it. It is neutral for public finances, it will not distort the income position of local government units, because people who use different degrees of exemption reduce the amount of input tax. Already today, the whole mechanism referred to here, resulting in the search for a regression towards the payment of tax due to all co-owners, including those who have a legal right to benefit from the exemption, is a technical measure, as if free of concern for the payment of the entire obligation, and then a joint and several investigation by individual persons of the amounts due for the tribute, the property tax. On the other hand, all this regulation will not affect the income of local government units, it will not reduce them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u125	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted a report on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on the item added. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 41 hrs. 13 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws (prints No 1480 and No 1493). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Joint Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry a report on the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws, whose first reading took place on 20 April this year. The draft is contained in print No 1480 and the report of the joint committees in print No 1493. High Izbo! This revision of the Geological and Mining Law aims to implement into the Polish legal order Directive 2013/30/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations and amending Directive 2004/35/EC. The deadline for its implementation by the Member States of the European Union expired on 19 July 2015, and we therefore have to catch up on the decline after the previous government, and these discrediting omissions should be removed immediately. For this reason, the joint committees: the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry immediately started working to prepare and report on the joint committees. High Izbo! Poland has limited own resources of oil and natural gas, so the activity associated with their exploration and extraction is not so strongly developed. The mining activity in the sea areas of the Republic of Poland in the case of crude oil results in about 160 t of annual extraction, for natural gas - about 17 million m3, and the concessions for exploration, recognition and extraction are held by the Lotos Petrobaltic SA Group. However, it is clear that all provisions of the directive mentioned at the outset should be implemented into Polish law, and the transposition of the provisions of the Directive into the Polish legal system aims to reduce the risk of a major accident in the pursuit of exploration, exploration and extraction activities for hydrocarbon deposits in marine areas by introducing mechanisms to protect the environment and improve the safety of the business. This will be done by strengthening and complementing solutions existing so far and currently in the Geological and Mining Law. The requirements referred to in the draft law concern: firstly, the pursuit of activities in the field of exploration, exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons in the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland in such a way as to ensure the safety and protection of the environment; secondly, the public's participation in the consultation of environmental impacts in this field; thirdly, the management of risks in terms of safety of persons and environmental pollution in both national and international cooperation in this field; fourthly, the supervision of the preparation of operators for the management of risks in terms of safety of persons and pollution of the environment in that activity; fifthly, liability for environmental damage and sixthly for disaster response. High Izbo! The current regulations in Geological and Mining Law do not require an operator operating in maritime areas to provide internal systems to prevent and respond to dangerous activities, and the system of supervision of the activities of mining plants does not provide for solutions that take full account of the specificities of activities in maritime areas. Therefore, the project imposes certain obligations on business operators. First of all, the entrepreneur should be able to fulfil the financial obligations arising from responsibility for activities related to the exploration, recognition and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland. The provisions of the Article shall apply. 49x and the following therefore provide for mandatory safeguards for claims which may arise from the activities carried out. Since the real risk of damage can only arise at the stage of the establishment of the mining plant, the establishment of the security will be followed by a decision approving the traffic plan of the mining plant, but before it is implemented. Each year the trader will have to submit to the concession authority an up-to-date proof of the existence of the security. High Izbo! The proposal introduces substantial changes to Article. 108.110 Geological and mining law concerning the movement of a mining plant. The provisions of the Geological and Mining Law relating to the mining plant's traffic plan to some extent correspond to the requirements of the Directive in Article. Article 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 12. They are now complemented by regulations on exploration, exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons from offshore sites. The existing provisions are supplemented by: firstly, the analysis of serious risks to the mining plant transmitted to the supervisory authority prior to the start of the implementation of the traffic plan, consulted with the representatives of the plant's staff and updated every 5 years; secondly, the description of the safety and environmental management system - the supervisory authority may require a review of the serious risks analysis by decision; thirdly, the description of the independent verification system carried out by the mining plant's motion assessor. The traffic plan should be accompanied by an expert's opinion on technical safety solutions. The independent verification system is the implementation of the Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One, six and eight and Annex V of the Directive. The valuer should not be linked to the trader's business relationship and should not be involved in the creation of those solutions that will be verified by him. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 72 of the Geological and Mining Law was added point 22, which introduced a group of XXII rights of an expert on the traffic of a mining plant concerning the exploration, recognition and extraction of hydrocarbons from deposits within the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland. The powers will be conferred by a decision of the President of the Higher Mining Authority. In addition, the trader is required to record in such a way as to prevent the manipulation of the technical data of the operation carried out and to report to the mining supervisory authority on the implementation of the traffic plan. The scope of the report will be set out in the relevant Regulation. The rules introduced will allow for anonymous reporting of safety and environmental problems to mining supervisory authorities. And that's the rule that fills in the article. 22 Directives. The provisions on mining rescue are also being amended in order to comply with the requirements of the Directive. As regards the tasks of the competent authority, this law shall apply to the designer by implementing Article. Article 8 and Article 8 9 directives, entrusted tasks assigned to the competent authority within the meaning of the Directive to the President of the Higher Mining Authority. The President of the Higher Mining Authority shall be the central authority of the government responsible for mining supervision. High Izbo! The Geological and Mining Law provides for the separation of the powers of the President of the Higher Mining Authority from the tasks of other authorities of the State in relation to the management of natural resources in maritime areas, the granting of relevant concessions and the collection of funds for the pursuit of this activity. These legal and organisational arrangements make the President of the Higher Mining Authority a competent authority within the meaning of Article. The 8th Directive meets the requirements of independence and objectivity in the area of its competences arising from the implementation of the directive mentioned at the outset. High Izbo! The Act also catalogues the powers of the President of the Higher Mining Authority in the field of safety of operations, also defines the procedure for dealing with a dangerous incident or accident, cooperation with the European Commission in the implementation of reporting obligations and the forms and principles of cooperation with businesses and their employees in the development of standards and guidelines on best practices in this field. High Izbo! Each law must contain sanctions so that the rules laid down are respected. In the case of this project, it is assumed that failure by entrepreneurs and managers of the mining plant to comply with the obligations introduced by the Act will be subject to a financial penalty of up to 3% income of the punished entity achieved in the previous calendar year or up to 300% of the monthly salary of the head of the mining plant. The draft in print No 1480 and the draft in the committee's report also amend other laws: the Law of 21 March 1991 on the Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and the Maritime Administration, in which a supplement is added - a regulation imposing an obligation on the Director of the competent maritime office to establish a safety zone of at least 500 m wide around the mining plants operating in maritime areas. This draft law also amends the Law of 16 March 1995 on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the Law of 13 April 2007 on the Prevention and Repair of Environmental Damage and the Law of 18 August 2011 on Maritime Safety. High Izbo! The Joint Committees on Energy and the Treasury and the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry adopted the report in print No 1493 with 24 votes in favour, 4 against and 5 abstentions. Of course, a number of amendments have been made in the course of the work on the project, but they are of a sequencing, clarifying nature. I have the honour on behalf of the Joint Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry to ask the High House to adopt a draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws contained in the report of the Joint Committees in print No 1493. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u127	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. You have the floor of Artur Szałabawka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u128	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position on the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws, primary printing No 1480. The draft law on which the joint Sejm committees have been working aims to implement the EU Directive on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations and to amend the Directive laying down requirements to reduce the risk of major accidents in exploration, exploration and production activities for hydrocarbon deposits within maritime areas by introducing mechanisms to protect the environment and improve the safety of operations. The deadline for implementation expired in July 2015, which necessitates a rapid completion of the work on this law. Until July 2015, work was not carried out by the Government of the Civic Platform to bring Polish law into line with the provisions of the Directive. This time has been lost forever. The draft law, after first reading at the meeting of the Joint Committee, after careful consideration and amendment, takes full account of the provisions of the Directive, naturally through the work of Members, Members of the Commission, representatives of the Ministry and experts. Poland now has several mining and exploration concessions in the Baltic Sea, which is why we need to adapt to the provisions of this directive. The bill allows to reduce the risk of accidents, as well as to maintain safety and a high level of environmental protection when carrying out activities related to exploration, recognition and extraction of hydrocarbons within marine areas. This is important from the point of view of reducing the negative effects of pollution emissions from this activity on the Baltic Sea area, but also on coastal economies, not only the seas. This law will significantly take into account the specific nature of offshore activities in the exploration of hydrocarbons. This specificity has not yet been sufficiently taken into account in the Polish Geological and Mining Law. It is also important to seek to increase environmental awareness of all actors involved in this type of activity. The solutions proposed in the Act will increase the level of protection of the marine environment and coastal areas in the event of potential accidents, which is of particular importance in the social aspect. Two amendments were tabled to this draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws, prints No 1480 and No 1493. First amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 9 is replaced by the following: 9) in Article. 49y paragraph is added. 9. The concession body shall, where the subject-matter of the proceedings is an extension of: 1. the search and recognition phase shall make the arrangements referred to in Article. 8 and obtains the opinion referred to in Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1a, or the opinion referred to in Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 point 2 (2); 2. the extraction phase shall make the arrangement referred to in Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) and Article 1. 8 and obtains the opinion referred to in Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1a shall either make the arrangements referred to in Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a point 1. And the second amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 point 2 is replaced by the following: 2. after Article. The following Article 34b is inserted: 34c as follows: Article. 34c. The Director of the Maritime Office shall immediately forward to the President of the Higher Mining Authority a copy of the decision terminating the proceedings, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as referred to in Article. 29 if it concerns an event related to activities involving the exploration, recognition or extraction of hydrocarbons from deposits within the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u129	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u130	Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and some other laws contained in the committee's report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u131	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u132	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. The purpose of the amendment is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations and to amend the Directive laying down requirements to reduce the risk of major accidents during exploration, exploration and extraction activities. High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that, in order to analyse this project in depth and depth, Members of the Civic Platform at the joint meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on 20 April 2017 have failed to successfully request the establishment of a subcommittee to discuss the details of the amendment. Unfortunately, the lack of willingness to be appointed by both a representative of the Ministry of the Environment and Members of Law and Justice prevented such work from taking place and thus improved the legislative process concerning this law. [[2-year delay in implementation, sir.]] The details of the amendments requiring clarification relate to the envisaged broad catalogue of obligations imposed on entrepreneurs engaged in the exploration, recognition and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland. Let me draw your attention to the more important changes from our point of view, which raise doubts that applicants need to clarify. The first case concerns the obligation to provide for safeguards for claims potentially arising from activities consisting in the exploration, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons within the limits of marine areas to be established by the trader at the establishment stage of the mining plant. And here is the first question that needs to be clarified: whether this regulation could lead to higher costs for the operation and a stronger position for large businesses, which could lead to less competition on the market - and therefore the question arises as to whether these were the objectives of the Directive. Further obligations under the Act include:: the obligation for an entrepreneur to establish and implement an independent verification system carried out by a mining plant traffic assessor, the obligation to ensure that authorised employees of the mining authorities transport to and from a mining plant situated within the limits of the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland and their accommodation and food, the obligation to develop and implement a system enabling the collection and recording of technical data relating to this activity, as well as the obligation to establish and implement an independent verification system carried out by the mining plant traffic assessor. And here there are further doubts: whether this regulation could lead to an increase in the costs of the operation, due to the large number of above mentioned. formal obligations relating to the adaptation of the company's activities to statutory requirements - which raises the question whether it is really necessary to increase formalism in the course of the activity carried out by the entrepreneur; whether the formal requirements indicated must indeed be introduced into Polish legislation; whether there is a market of experts in Poland prepared to carry out the assessments and analyses required by the amended regulations; whether the projector has an appropriate analysis of this market of experts. High Izbo! This amendment also introduces the principle of separating the concession award procedure from the implementation of the mining supervision of mining plants operating on the basis of those concessions and the separation of the competences of their operators. At the same time, the concession body was required to obtain the opinion of the President of the Higher Mining Authority in the course of the procedure for granting concessions for the exploration, recognition and extraction of hydrocarbons. The following doubts arise here: Do not the regulations described above contradict each other, in particular with regard to the principle of division of mining supervision in relation to the award of concessions, since the President of the Higher Mining Authority will participate in the concession award proceedings within the framework of its advisory powers? In addition, and if so, to what extent will the negative opinion of the President of the WUG affect the award of the concession and is it prepared in substance, formally and logistically to exercise his supervisory and opinional powers to an extended extent? High Izbo! Failure by traders and managers of the mining plant to comply with the obligations introduced by the Act will be subject to a financial penalty of up to 3% income of the punished entity achieved in the previous calendar year or up to 300% of the monthly salary of the traffic manager of the mining plant. The following questions arise here. Are the penalties described above justified in the light of the requirements of the Directive and are they proportionate, in particular with regard to the discretion of the President of the WUG with regard to the amount of the penalties? High Izbo! As I pointed out at the outset of my statement, this is only part of the doubts that should be clarified during the work of the subcommittee, which would probably discuss the details of the amendment of this law. The other institutions also have negative opinions on this law. These doubts could not be clarified, but the Civic Platform club would not be opposed to this amendment in view of the need to implement the directive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u133	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present them. This is the position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws, the printing of Seym No 1493. On 7 April 2017, the project entered the Sejm, 6 days later it was addressed to first reading in committees. I would like to move on to the conclusions of the findings of 20 April 2017 of the Joint Committee on Energy and the Treasury and of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. The project translates the provisions of the European Union into Polish law and concerns activities which consist in searching for, identifying or extracting hydrocarbons from deposits within the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland. I have here questions: Who has assessed the impact of the proposed regulation? What and how much does Poland have its own oil and gas resources? How advanced is the activity related to hydrocarbon deposits within maritime areas? Here we should ask the question of whose interest it is to introduce the abovementioned. records - i.e. Polish national companies or global companies, such as: British Petroleum? We all remember the ecological disaster - the oil spill on the Deepwater Horizon oil platform on 20 April 2010 in the Gulf of Mexico resulting from the negligence and pseudo-savings of international corporations. As will be monitored and processed, information on environmental risks that may arise as a result of the implementation of the above mentioned provisions will be monitored and processed. Baltic Sea activities? Will the President of the Higher Mining Authority, who will identify the threat or the possibility of a threat, be able to stop the activity of the poisoner of the Polish sea? This is to be done by regulation on technical feasibility and safety. It is proposed to add a definition of the extraction of hydrocarbons from deposits. It will be necessary to grant concessions for exploration and exploration of hydrocarbons and the extraction of hydrocarbons from deposits within the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland. Prior to the initiation of the tendering procedure by the concession body, where the subject-matter of the procedure is the award of concessions for the above mentioned. the activity, the company will have to provide the opinion of the President of the Higher Mining Authority on the safety of the operation. The entrepreneur shall draw up in writing the corporate policy to prevent dangerous incidents and accidents which are defined, inter alia, by the company. general objectives and arrangements for the control of the risk of dangerous incidents and accidents, as well as the way in which those objectives are to be achieved and the arrangements put into effect. There seems to be something else going on here in practice. It's just about access to deposits. We, our club, are concerned with energy security of Poland. We should emphasise this in this document. The project includes modifications to the catalogue of mine-owned fossils, introducing new licensing rules to end the illegal exploitation of the Baltic Sea deposits. The new provisions in the Act concern technical and organisational solutions for mining activities in the Baltic Sea. There are doubts here that we have signalled, e.g. whether the process of planning and carrying out search and rescue activities at sea will be safe or secure. Another doubt: as will be the type and schedule of geological work and other requirements, also proper management of underwater noise. This also needs to be highlighted and emphasized. Geological works, drilling platforms, geophysical works carried out in the exploration of hydrocarbons or hydrotechnical works have a significant impact on the environment. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I declare that we are in favour of further work on the government bill in the parliament committees and explaining any doubts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club Modern about the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and some other laws, print No 1493. The amendment is primarily linked to the need to bring the law into line with the requirements of Directive 2013/30/EU. The aim of this amendment, in addition to the need to implement the obligations imposed by Community law on the Republic of Poland, is also to limit to the greatest extent possible the occurrence of major accidents related to hydrocarbon deposits within the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland. We expect that the implementation of this directive will result in an increase in the level of protection of the marine environment by reducing the number of events related to hydrocarbon activities. This will be possible through the activities of the competent authority to which the territorially competent district mining office will be in this case. It will also perform additional tasks in relation to current tasks concerning the control of activities related to hydrocarbon deposits in maritime areas of the Republic of Poland. In practice, the novel will focus mainly on one company, which has a licence to extract oil and natural gas from the bottom of the Baltic Sea - the company, I will remind you, which has been operating since the beginning of the free Poland, and in principle continues the activity of a tri-national enterprise. The doubts that arise here and have already been expressed by my predecessors concern the burden on entrepreneurs of new obligations. Some of them are financial in nature, which raises our great concern. As we remember in history, we haven't seen any more serious events so far, unless the Minister reminds us of this kind of situation. I personally don't remember situations like this... [[The extraction scale isn't big.]] ...the question is whether all the instruments we propose in this novel are justified or appropriate. The Modern Posel Club has asked for a subcommittee on this matter, because matter is complex and it has been difficult to work on this project within the joint committees. Unfortunately, this vote did not gain recognition among the majority of the Sejm, which I accepted with sadness, because the work in the subcommittees is much more effective - we can say that with even such a small experience of the Sejm, this is the right course of action. Nevertheless, we will support further work on this law in committees, because this is the responsibility of the Republic of Poland to transpose this directive into our law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u137	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor. There's no envoy? Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor. You don't have an MP? Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u138	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the authors of the amendment and the effectiveness analysis, the response in the mining rescue plan was limited to the oil spill, leaving aside the risks associated with natural gas, since the obligation of entrepreneurs to include in the mining rescue plan also risks related to natural gas would constitute an unacceptable overregulation. I have a question, Minister, if the amendment is really limited to the effects of the oil spill excluding natural gas, and if so, why. Has the principle of equal treatment for entrepreneurs been respected and are the risks of natural gas really negligible that they have been completely ignored? If so, why? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u139	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Who is responsible for approving the project of geological works at sea and who keeps up-to-date records of dangerous events when extracting hydrocarbons at sea in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u142	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are dealing with an amendment, actually a new law, whose entry is postponed until July 2018. Of course, there are a number of provisions in this law that entrepreneurs must comply with, and they must comply with, the provisions that this law contains. And I have a question to the Minister: Isn't this too short a vacathio legis for entrepreneurs who are doing business, and will the costs they have to bear not affect the price of fuels that will be offered on the market? And the second question: you have somehow estimated, if I remember correctly, at more than PLN 1 million, at PLN 1.5 million the cost of adapting to these entrepreneurs within 10 years. Are these real costs? Is the Minister able to give the real value of the costs that entrepreneurs will have to bear during this period, adapting to the implementation of the bill that we are looking at today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u143	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to continue to address the burden on entrepreneurs, especially issues that translate directly into the costs of business activities in this segment. Indeed, I have the impression that the calculations, the estimates that are included in the impact assessment are underestimated. It seems that they are threatening a higher burden here, which does not really seem justified, because we should aim for growth, maximizing extraction in our area. After all, this increases our energy security, energy security of Poland, so all the burdens, especially family entrepreneurs, in this respect I strongly negative. I ask for a clear statement in this respect, which will be translated into their functioning, especially on the functioning of the single entity which holds the licence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a technical question. When were the changes to the bill to be made? Is it true that two years ago we were supposed to process this as a state? Are we not too late with regard to the rules in force in the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u147	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment, the main geologist of the country Mariusz Orion Jędryska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a project that should actually be implemented quite early, 2 years ago. Government project, which is purely implementing the so-called directive. offshore directive, i.e. exploration, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons at sea, implemented in the form of law, amendments to the Geological and Mining Law Act. In fact, it can be said that we have tried to ensure that this draft law implements as much as we have to, that is our duty as a result of our membership of the European Union. That's it, actually. If we do not implement this urgently, then we are in danger of being punished. These penalties can amount to up to several hundred thousand euros a day. Now I would like to comment on the speeches made by individual Members representing the clubs. First of all, Mr Paweł Bańkowski's questions from the Civic Platform were about security costs. The security costs are always, they concern every geological and mining activity, from the moment you seek a licence to search, so there are no special changes here. As far as increasing formal requirements are concerned, they are simply the result of the directive, here we have tried to limit It's as soon as you can do it. The Higher Mining Authority gets about 10 jobs for this, according to my memory. He will refer to this as experts, and the experts must of course be responsible for what they do, for their opinions. However, what is important is that decisions on the issue of concessions are assessed by the WUG and not agreed, which means that there is no procedural conflict. What else was there? Oh, there was a question about costs and penalties. I would like to remind you that these costs, these penalties, were introduced in the Geological and Mining Law in 2011 by Members of the PO-PSL Coalition, and this is basically just an extension, a transfer to the directive, Article. 175. On the other hand, Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz15, who did the OSR. The impact assessment was carried out by the Ministry of the Environment, the relevant department. As far as definitions are concerned, definitions for the extraction of hydrocarbons are sufficiently defined in the Geological and Mining Law. Some things we don't fully define, show me where we have, in any law, the definition of man. There's no need to elaborate on that right now. The other things you have asked for are solely from the directive. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas from Modern. The division of competences has repeated the question that I have already answered, between the Higher Mining Authority and the authority of the Minister of Environment operating at the main geologist of the country. Here is a clear division of these competences. There is a minister of the environment, he grants concessions, while the Higher Mining Authority is a safety control body, hence these jobs and valuers. Indeed, the offshore directive is a direct consequence of the accident we know in the Gulf of Mexico, BP, there have been massive spills, the effects of which have not yet been dealt with and hence the European Union's caution. In our case, as far as Poland is concerned, production, I will go to answer the next questions, is relatively small at sea. It is important and profitable, definitely, but it is relatively small. Even the costs, however, even if the regulation resulting from the directive did not significantly increase the costs, of course, because these are additional requirements, they still give rise to a powerful cost-effectiveness of oil extraction at sea, hence these companies did not pay any attention at all. We had no comments on the cost increase resulting from the implementation of this directive. I think I answered the next questions here. I will answer the Members individually. Mr Paweł Bańkowski was again. Mr President, this is really about the element you have been asking about protecting the environment, protecting plants and animals from potential accidents, but it is indeed a preventive directive. As for Mr Gryglas' question, it concerned... Unfortunately, I don't see it. I don't think so. Oh, I already answered, didn't I? [[It was about the costs incurred...]] Cost. Well, that's what we said, about PLN 1.5 million. Yeah, 1.5 million zlotys, that's the cost, that's how it was estimated. They didn't protest the entrepreneur, so I think... [[It's been 10 years.]] Please? [[Is it really calculated? That was the question.]] Well, unfortunately, that's the cost, and you can... Please? [[Is it really calculated?]] Yeah, we think that's how it's supposed to be. I have no other opinion on this and the entrepreneurs agreed with us, so if you had any countercalculations or corrections, I would be grateful for this information, because I am sure it will be useful. The next thing is the same thing about costs. In fact, these are very similar questions, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas and Mrs Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice, about when implementation was to be. This right, this directive was given about 2 years - it is about its implementation. She is from 2013, she was supposed to enter in July 2015. Well, unfortunately, it wasn't prepared, and we started doing this job again after we changed governments, and we're at this stage right now. We're facing serious punishment. Therefore, I do not see any controversy here, and I propose that the Honourable Sejm adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u149	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Ms Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to these comments and to the fact that no subcommittee has been set up to work on this project today. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have started on this subject. I said it not directly, so I'm gonna make it clear now. Had this law been passed by 19 July 2015 if the then Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, instead of driving trains around the country, had coordinated the work of ministers and led the Minister of the Environment to submit a draft law that we are discussing today in due time, we would not have to work so hard. I would like to remind you that 575 unimplemented acts, including four laws, were left in the Ministry of the Environment after that term, and one of these laws was a change in the Geological and Mining Law. Mr President, if we could afford longer work, the comfort of setting up a subcommittee, we would certainly be happy to work systematically and with great commitment in this subcommittee, but because we are facing penalties, and on 19 July 2015 we had to work intensively. And the second point I'd like to raise. [[When was the committee meeting?]] I would like to thank the representatives of the clubs for their declaration of support or even for their declaration of non-vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u151	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u152	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws, prints no. 1480 and 1493. The new regulations will speed up and facilitate exploration, exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons. Their effect is to increase the supply of natural gas, including shale. Only one concession will be introduced - the exploration and recognition of hydrocarbons and their extraction from the deposit. This concession will replace the three existing concessions: exploration, exploration and mining. The revision of the licensing model covering all phases of activity by a single concession should encourage businesses to carry out their search to the fullest extent possible. In practice, the licensing process will be simpler. In principle, the concession will be granted in an ex officio tendering procedure. It is also easier for entrepreneurs to carry out geophysical studies to examine geological structures on the basis of a notification. The Commission has introduced legislative and clarification amendments in its work. The Polish People's Party Club will support the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u153	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 35 hrs. 14 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. The European Union Commission has submitted a report on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity (recast) as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on the item added. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social and Family Policy on the bill amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Security Office, State Fire and Prison Service and some other laws (prints No 30 and 1521). I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u154	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on Social and Family Policy, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance on a bill amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and some other laws, print No 1521. The citizens' project entered the Sejm on 28 August 2015 and on 19 November was addressed to the first reading at the Sejm meeting held on 2 December 2015. The project was then addressed to three committees. During their joint meeting on 9 March 2016, the draft was addressed to the Emergency Sub-Committee. It held three sittings. A report was adopted at the meeting on 4 April, which was presented at the Joint Committee meeting on 9 May this year. In order to justify the draft law, the applicant identified as one of the main arguments the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 3 March 2015, which confirmed the claims of the environment of customs officers raised for years that they were discriminated against in the absence of the inclusion of Customs officers in the pension scheme applicable to other uniformed services. In the opinion of the applicants, the Customs Service is currently the only uniformed service not covered by the provisioning pension scheme for all uniformed services. The amendments tabled to the citizens' project were, in principle, a consequence of the solutions proposed in the government's position, as well as the inclusion in the supply system of the Customs and Treasury Service in connection with the adoption of the National Tax Administration Act and the creation of a new formation. The most reservations were raised by the amendment tabled in Article. 12, which assumes that a police pension is entitled to a duty-free officer who has 15 years of service in the said services on the day of his release, except for an official who has a fixed right to a pension as defined in the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, calculated on the basis of periods of service and periods equivalent to that in the case of customs officers or customs officers, the completion of 55 years of age and having at least 5 years of service is additionally required: in the performance of the tasks referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 2 points 4 and 5 of the Customs Service Act of 24 July 1999 or Article. 2 (2) Point 1 of the Act of 27 August 2009 on Customs or Customs Services. In order to justify this change, the Minister stated that the scope of the pension rights for Customs officers proposed in the citizens' project was too far-reaching as it went beyond the limits resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In order to implement that judgment, it is therefore necessary to identify a group of authorised officers. This amendment was accepted. Other amendments by the government concerned: the exclusion of the right to housing, as this formation does not have housing units; the withdrawal of the amendment proposed in the citizens' project providing for the establishment of the basis for the invalidity pension for Customs officers in the preparatory service in accordance with the rules provided for for officials in the candidate service, which is called. an alternative military service; the acceptance that the pension will be based on an officer's pension due for a further period of 10 calendar years chosen by an officer; the introduction of a regulation whereby a customs or customs-carboy officer who, on the day of his release from the service, conversion or termination of the service relationship, has reached a service term of 15 years, including at least 5 years in the performance of the so-called. Police tasks, but have not reached the age of 55, acquires the right to a pension at the date of age of that age; grant at the age of 55 the right to a police pension to a customs service officer who has reached the age of 25 on the date of his release but who has not reached the age of 55 years of age, and the exemption from the service has taken place in connection with the merger or abolition of organisational units subordinate to the minister responsible for public affairs; grant the right to a police pension to customs or customs-carb service officers who have been released from the service or whose service relationship has either been transformed or expired from 3 March 2015 until the date of entry into force of the law where those officials during the specified period fulfilled the conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement in accordance with the procedure set out in the law on pension provision of uniform services; adopt the competence of the MSWiA pension authority to customs and customs-carb services. Part of the amendments was the consequence of the adoption that only the period of service from 15 September 1999 will be included in pension rights, and some regulations have become obsolete. 30 amendments were tabled at the Joint Committee meeting on 9 May. Most of them concerned a change in the scope of the Act by extending the circle of persons entitled to benefits from the supply system, changing the conditions necessary to obtain a police pension, adopting arrangements allowing customs and customs officers to be debubbed, introducing transitional arrangements for granting customs and sugar officers a 40% cash benefit the average salary of an officer in order to avoid a situation in which officers would be deprived of cash until the so-called. Police pensions, finally changing the date of entry into force of the Act. That date was set at 1 January 2018. The subject of the discussion was also the regulation on the inclusion of traineeships, services prior to 15 September 1999 in pension rights from the supply system, the establishment of a circle of officials entitled to provide pensions in the context of fulfilling the conditions for carrying out the tasks of the so-called. Police officers, the amount of the benefit paid until retirement from the supply system and the security of payment of cash benefits from the State budget. The committees accepted 21 amendments, 9 rejected. 33 Members voted in favour of the report, no one opposed it, with 4 abstentions. Importantly, the applicant's representative, the Chairman of the Legislative Initiative Committee, has assured that, although the amendments adopted do not fully meet their expectations, no amendments will be tabled at this stage of the procedure. In addition, he called on the parliamentary clubs not to submit any amendments which would lead to an extension of the legislative process and thus enable them to proceed with this project in the Senate as soon as possible. This draft law was long awaited by the environment's Customs officials, as the applicants stressed, and therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I request that the High Sejm adopt the draft together with the amendments made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u155	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the presentation to the High House of the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the citizens' draft law, contained in Parliamentary Printing No 1521. You might say, finis coronat opus, the end of the work ends, because looking chronologically at the efforts of the applicants, before whom I face organic work, we will see that in March 2015 the Constitutional Tribunal issued a ruling in the case at hand. It could be said that the end of the work ends, but we are also aware that the expectations of the applicants were much greater than the framework of the Constitutional Court's ruling. These were difficult discussions both in the subcommittee and at the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committees. Several dozen amendments were tabled, some of which were related to the reform and the establishment of a new institution, the National Tax Administration. This also led to the fact that the work period from March 2016 to the present time could not be shorter, which probably remained in the area of the applicants' interest. We therefore execute the judgment or judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is only a pity that our predecessors have not started their work and have not accepted the possibility of starting the legislative process on the basis of a citizens' bill. Law and Justice have repeatedly stressed during the election campaign, today I confirm from this speaker that we will not throw civil projects into freezers, but direct them to committee work. This was the case with the civil project. Given that there is consensus, of course, within the framework of this ruling, which I was talking about, the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I would like to declare that we will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u157	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u158	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The end of the work ends - it is said when success is achieved. When a complaint is drawn up on pensions for customs officers equal to police pensions when lodged with the Constitutional Tribunal, the same arguments as those underlying the application are then shared by the Members of the applicants. Was it the same in this case? Well, no. If we say that the proposal to the Constitutional Court stated that the pensions of customs officers should be aligned with other pensions of uniformed services, granting the so-called. a police pension, that was the result, including the government's position on this project, to do so. On the other hand, the Prime Minister of today, Mrs Beata Szydło of that time, signed up for the project to give authority without any additional conditions. She became prime minister and said no, no, we'll do it a little differently. The former Member of the Duda, and today the President, will also face such a dilemma. Thus, if we want to speak, it is limited to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of March 2015 to the right of persons, defining this circle, limiting to customs officers who carry out police duties. They were granted additional criteria for 5 years of police work and set a date completely different from that indicated before 1999, without including this period of service in the Customs Service or today in the National Tax Administration. Here we have this dilemma about the quality, the integrity of speaking, what the election campaign is governed by. Young students or young people sitting at the gallery, you need to know that in the election campaign on this project, as well as in other PiS, he said: we want something different, and a bit of a booze legislative initiative committee was drawn up, which gathered 200,000. signatures. The procession started in 2015, i.e. such an initial printing. Was it fast? Slowly. Because if we know the dates in which the process takes place in this room, or one night - one act - then it counted on slowing down this process. Therefore, with regard to the citizens' initiative project, the possibility and number of officers who hoped this solution would be adopted were limited to the High Bureau and to Mr Grey. You've changed this project. Of course, the debate has been going on for 18 years on pensions for the Customs Service. The blame is not only for the predecessors, for the Law and Justice did not raise this issue in 2005 and 2007 and the predecessors. So, if we're talking about a solution today, let's talk without hypocrisy, without resorting to tricks. Our amendments aim to restore such a solution so that it is a comprehensive solution that treats all customs officers equally, because this was the nature of the employment relationship they contained, and that there was no desire for law and justice, for example. to reduce pensions so-called police other employees, e.g. The police, the State Fire Department or the others. So we are submitting this proposal because we are trying to read directly the Constitutional Court's judgment, we want to solve the problem seriously and reliably, and therefore we are proposing such amendments. I'll put them on your marshal's hand. It can't be that you said today that the end of the work ends when we have a mix-up in the reform of the National Tax Administration, where 14,500. The customs officers are waiting for which one of them will be employed, because there may be about 4,000 civilians. employees and other employees are also waiting for this work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we can't agree to that. I worked in the subcommittee. Madam President of the subcommittee and today the rapporteur Mrs Szydleko spoke about this work, but in this work systematically, every time the government's proposals and amendments weakened position, reduced the number of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u159	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u160	...officers who can benefit from it. We urge you to accept these amendments if you want to talk seriously to citizens. We understand that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u161	Thank you, Member, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u162	...you want to make a compromise, a citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u163	Thank you very much, Member. Don't prolong it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u164	We will help you in everything to make this case a happy finale. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u165	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz club15, I was honoured to present the position of Kukiz club15 with regard to print no. 30. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about printing a citizens' initiative that appeared in the Seym in 2015. He appeared because the political class, the parties were forced by the judgment of the tribunal, which clearly pointed out, said what everyone was talking about, but no one had the political courage to say out loud that customs officers are officers who should have the same pension rights as the Border Guard. That's it, period. Very simple. The citizens' initiative in the current course of work has already, in my opinion, actually run off and is a little further away from the applicants' assumptions. Moreover, it does not really complete the decision of the tribunal and creates a rather strange, reckless creation. In the Border Guard, in the Police, as we know, there is a very simple, clear division: civil jobs and officers' posts. Same goes for the Border Guard, same goes for the military. In the case of customs officers, the following is the case. We know we already have the National Tax Administration today. As part of this, customs and treasury offices will operate, where we have civil jobs. There will be customs officers doing police work. We have a complete creation... The question now is, what kind of police action is this? There is no explanation in this project for what really is police action. How will we understand that? Of those 14,000. When you take out the 4,000 that you want to go to the civilian, you're left with 10,000. These police officers may be 1 000, which is what we're really talking about 10%. Customs officers who may be entitled to pension privileges. The first question is, how do we understand it? There's nothing worse than a complex and unclear law. At the same time, it is inconsistent in terms of adequate positions, such as in the Border Guard, because these countries are sitting at the border and performing the same activities together in the road lane, at airports, in ports. They perform exactly the same functions. Moreover, border guards can also be transferred. Customs officers may also be able to be transferred, but they don't have any pension benefits at this point, which means we're inconsistent and we can't keep our faces, which will allow us to be honest. The Civic Platform could have done that. It's not an explanation that the project was submitted in August. Again, everyone knew before, only no one had the courage or the will. Customs know and remember this. Another thing is that, in fact, in this whole discussion, there's too much politics going on, there's too many personal tours today. It's really the tax collectors who aren't interested, especially as the National Tax Administration is experiencing difficult days. In fact, by the end of May no one will know where, why or who they will be or will not be. The appeal process will begin. So, ladies and gentlemen, in summing up, we need to close this up, we need to work out to the end. This is due to this famous 1999 law, which actually makes this border, because suddenly it turns out that before we had no officers, we only had government officials. We've had officers since 1999. I believe that this limit should be postponed during the first elections, as we have done with the ABW Act and its pension rights. This should be consistent, so that there is decency, that the law treats everyone equally. And let us remember that the customs officers are not sometimes forced to go to the courts to seek this justice in the courts. It's worth getting it right here in the Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families and some other laws, prints no. 30 and 1521, after the committee's report. High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to express my indignation at the fact that the report on the work of the joint committees was only half an hour before this reading. This is unacceptable. This is another example of how much the majority today taking decisions in this House is far from such a healthy process of lawmaking. Ladies and gentlemen, this is absolutely not the case. I call for this practice to stop. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law presented by the citizens' initiative is an excellent example of the functioning of civil society, which has been encouraged by the frivolous treatment of the Customs Service by previous governments. On the side of the Customs Service was the judgment of the Constitutional Court, it was obvious the ratio of legis of this law, but it was necessary to take a grassroots initiative from civil society, the Customs Service, in order for this matter to be in the High House, so I would like to express my appreciation to the committee for the fact that you have undertaken this task and also to thank all those who have taken part in this initiative. I would like to direct these particular thanks because, just when Members are dealing with issues relating to the real problems of citizens, also those communicated by citizens, this is one of the most important areas of Parliament's action. Ladies and gentlemen! The project details have already been extensively discussed here. There will probably still be a representative of the initiative, so let me just mention that the submission concerns changes in the pension rights of Customs officials. In general, the ratio legis of this project is included in the need to align the pension rights of Customs officers with those of other services performing the same work as the said Customs Service. The entry into force of this submission will result in an increase in the costs associated with the payment of pension benefits. They will, of course, be higher and paid longer than in the current system. By the way, it was also one of the promises of the PiS in the election campaign. Unfortunately, it was not enough that the problem had not been solved and civil society had to deal with it, but in addition, the Law on the Polish Customs Service initiated a systemic process of destruction. This is what we need to call what is happening today in the National Tax Administration. IT systems do not work, people without appropriate competence occupy managerial positions, officers with competence and knowledge are directed without any training and support for work to which they do not have the appropriate qualifications. Importantly, people still don't know what job offer they're going to get and whether they're going to get it at all. In addition, there is information about ignoring the residence criterion when designating a place of service or work. Here I wanted to ask representatives of the PiS, who are so much in favour of pro-family policy, whether the appointment of jobs at two different ends of Poland for people who are in a relationship this is a manifestation of the pro-family policy of PiS, because Poles, ladies and gentlemen, say that it is rather a manifestation of hypocrisy and this treatment of people. The changes made by the PiS are also characterised by a mere waste. Trained for gigantic means of specialists and officers, you direct them where their knowledge is useless, and you put complete novices into specialist positions. It's a threat to our country's economic security. High Izbo! To the end, I would like to point out that, in modern terms, all starting citizens should ultimately operate in a single pension system, even taking into account certain specific arrangements for their work. However, in the current situation and under current systemic circumstances, we consider it reasonable to align the powers of Customs officers with those of other servants who do such work as Customs officers. This position is also based on the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 3 March 2015, which confirmed that, as a rule, officers carrying out the same work should be treated equally. Therefore, despite the significant modification of this project by the PiS Members during the work in committee, although this project does not respond 100% to the [[♪ The bell ♪]] the identification of the Constitutional Tribunal and, despite the reasons that the social side has been talking about widely, the representatives of the applicants, taking into account the applicant's request, however, that this project go further to work in the Senate, the Modern will support this project as a step in the right direction. On the other hand, I am directing one amendment to the Marshal's hand concerning the restoration, i.e. to delete a point from this bill that would cause that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u169	Okay, thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u170	...you couldn't direct officers to other jobs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u171	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u172	...more civilian when they can't do the work of an officer for health reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u173	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u174	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Legislative Initiative! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the citizens' bill amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families and some other laws, print Nos 30 and 1521. Ladies and gentlemen! 200,000. signatures are undoubtedly a number that cannot be ignored. Citizens' signatures cannot be ignored by the party which, throughout the election campaign, carried a slogan on the banners of listening to the sovereign's voice. Especially since the Constitutional Tribunal also stated in this particular case. This was before the PiS paralyzed the institution's activities. The most important change the project talks about is the possibility of early retirement by customs officers. Officers of uniformed services to whom they wish to join, retire at the age of 55 and after 25 years of service. The applicants provide specific arguments as to why this should be the case. It cannot be denied that an important argument is the judgment of the Court in this case, which has ruled that customs officers actually have similar tasks to those of police officers, so they are entitled to the same pension rights. In the explanatory memorandum, the Constitutional Tribunal stated, quote: "It is also up to the Customs Service to identify, detect, prevent and combat certain offences and offences. The legal situation of Customs officers who carry them out is similar to that of police officers who are also entitled to pensions from the pension supply system. Plus, there's actually a question of the safety of all of us. Today, as the applicants have warned, Customs is an ageing formation. Soon more than half of her officers will be 50+, which with all due respect can affect efficiency and efficiency. As Customs say, the step they're applying for will allow for the full professionalization of their services. This will be an additional incentive for young officers. They also give specific calculations. According to them, strengthening the Customs Service will be expected to increase revenue to the budget by up to an additional 10 billion a year. These arguments fully convince us. There is still the issue of pure human sensitivity. At a time when the current government has pushed through the National Tax Administration Act, which has de facto stripped customs officers of uniforms, such changes as the applicants propose, although they will not compensate for the damage associated with the adoption of the National Tax Administration Act, they simply deserve it. The Polish People's Party Club will not block work on the bill, will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u175	Thank you very much. Please, now the floor has a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mr Sławomir Siwa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u176	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The speeches of all the parliamentary clubs that have just been presented indicate that all the political options will support our citizens' project, for which I thank the Sejm of this term very, very much on behalf of the committee. Thank you at all for addressing such an important and important problem. In this way, the current government attempted to fulfil a binding commitment to Poland, i.e. the 1998 agreement, which sets out that the powers of customs officers should be at the same level as those of other uniformed services. It must be stressed that this draft law, as has already been mentioned, was created on the initiative of nearly 200,000. citizens, and therefore they enjoy social support and recognition, the approval of citizens. The voice of citizens is therefore listened to, and their initiatives do not end up in the so-called. A seym freezer. This also sounded out of all the political options, for which I thank you once again very, very much on behalf of the Committee. It is stated here that this project was submitted after a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which was favourable to customs officers. I would therefore like to express my appreciation to the current government and the Polish Sejm for the fact that this matter is being dealt with in real terms. Social satisfaction with the fact that citizens want to do what they want and increase citizens' safety... Leaving the Customs Service outside the provisioning pension system causes many pathologies, e.g. That organized crime is being prosecuted by officers at the age of 60+. However, these facts cannot obscure another fact: unfortunately, the government's position has deviated from the social expectations expressed in the citizens' project and the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Unfortunately, a compromise was not reached at yesterday's meeting of the three joint committees and, as a result, the current proposal only partially implements the judgment of the Constitutional Court, i.e. does not introduce full equality in the pension rights of Customs officers in relation to the officers of the other uniformed services, as the Constitutional Tribunal intended. This fragmented enforcement is due to the addition to the law at the legislative stage of conditions which fundamentally differentiate customs officers. First of all, there is an unfamiliar indication of the retirement age in other services, i.e. the age of 55 for officers adopted before 1 January 2013, while in any other uniform formation there is no indication of age for officers at all - there is only a reason for achieving 15 years of service. This is inappropriate because the Constitutional Tribunal in its operative part stated that such officers are discriminated against, precisely because they are not in the provisioning pension system. The implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot therefore be referred to, at the same time adding only an additional condition of the age of 55 for them, a condition which is not present in other uniformed services. Secondly, a condition unknown to other uniformed services was introduced as a condition for the exercise of certain tasks as a condition for the acquisition of pension rights, while under the Customs Act it is uniformed, undivided, and uniformed uniformed uniforms, officers do not share according to the type of tasks performed. This does not allow them to do so because, in view of the professional availability of their duties and places of duty, they change repeatedly, even several times in the career of officers. For example, in the police nobody makes distinctions about the tasks performed for tasks more related to the fight against crime and the security of citizens and others - after all, not less important - tasks. He does not do so because he realizes that the specifics of the uniformed service - the Police, the Border Guard, but also the Customs Service - depended on and consists in the fact that the officer does not enter into any employment contract with the employer, as is the case with workers employed under the Labour Code. The officer is appointed to serve, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, and remains in an administrative service relationship with the Polish State, carrying out such tasks as the State will instruct him to do, but remaining fully available to carry out any task. At the same time, it has no influence on what tasks They will be commissioned to him and where he will do them. It is his duty to submit fully to the will of the employer representing the State. For these reasons, no one differentiates police officers or Border Guards. Why, then, should he, under the same conditions, have an administrative service relationship, full availability, rigors of service, constitutional restrictions on the right to make such a distinction only to customs officers? That is the question to be asked from this speaker. And I would ask you to lean on it when we conclude the compromise that we are hoping for during the committee's work, since the amendments have been tabled. Another legal problem is the specific closure of the eyes by the Sejm and the government for the fact that the officers have been carrying out tasks not since 15 September 1999, but they have done them much earlier, because the customs officers have carried out their tasks in uniform and on the basis of appointments - including prosecution and detection of criminal offences - since 1983. In the ministry there is daily stress, working in difficult conditions, especially at the border, where there are various cumbersome conditions, e.g. Carcinogenic exhaust gas and a real risk of loss of life and health. After all, there are known cases of assaulting officers, bombing a service vehicle, exactly a grenade, shooting a customs officer's car out of a machine gun, destroying private cars, private property officers by unknown perpetrators. All this in connection with the service rendered. Such situations existed before 1990, existed after it and will probably exist in the future, unfortunately. It is therefore justified to expect the Sejm and the government to recognise the nature of this work and to take this into account in the draft of this Act. We need a compromise, ladies and gentlemen. It should also be stressed that the Government's Legislative Centre, in an opinion issued after the Constitutional Court's judgment, indicated that different regulations from those in force in other uniformed services could be incompatible with the Constitution, and recommended that customs officers, today customs and sugar, be fully aligned with other servants' pension rights. The RCL opinion should send a signal to Members to reflect that their action, i.e. the possible passing of the law as it stands, without compromise, creates a legitimate risk of breaching the constitutional principle of equality by maintaining the state of discrimination. It is also acceptable here to recall the words of Minister Jarosław Zieliński made after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal that the Customs Service will be fully aligned in its powers and that in the family of uniformed services it will finally take the right place, equivalent to other services. Also during the first reading of the project, in December 2015, in this Chamber from the mouth of Minister Jarosław Zieliński, I quote: If you accept the idea of splitting customs officers, you will soon have a legitimate view that the same applies. Maybe it should be the other services. Therefore, since until today the Council of Ministers and the Sejm have not undertaken any legislative work aimed at dividing police officers, Border Guards and other uniformed services on the basis of their tasks, the Sejm should not carry out such division only with respect to customs officers. Otherwise, Members, you may consciously accept the division of uniformed officers into the better ones, the first categories, and the worse, the weaker, the inferior categories, which deserve only the name of a poor relative unworthy to sit at a common table in a family of uniformed services. Those aren't just words. For behind them lies the history of every officer, both the police, the Border Guard and the Customs Service. Let's try to compare the story of a police officer who plays in the police orchestra, is a press spokesman or serves as a staff member. Although he never realized the so-called. Police duties, he's entitled to a uniform pension. Let's put this together with the history of a customs officer who had been leaking smuggling before that date for many years at the state border on 15 September 1999 and who, for example, had been involved in smuggling for many years. in May 2004, it was transferred to other tasks. This customs officer will not receive e.g. Uniform pension. Let's get these two stories together. The summary of these life situations is clear. Even intuitively, this example shows how flawed it is to divide uniformed officers. This should not be the case for a democratic legal state, but it should be reasonable, it should take care of constitutional standards, it should avoid discrimination. Today in Parliament are those Members who signed the proposal to the Constitutional Court in 2013, because in their view discrimination against all customs officers is obvious, for which we are, of course, very grateful to them. Today, these Members have the full opportunity to see what they have signed come into force. The 1998 agreement will then be fully implemented. Therefore, High Izbo, we are calling for a committee report, but we are also calling for a compromise, as I said yesterday at the meeting of the three joint committees. At a later legislative stage, we ask for this compromise. It's possible. I'm sure of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u177	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the Minister, to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee and to the rapporteur. I mean the subject matter of this law, of all the beneficiaries. Is that bill... Because in my opinion - although I am not a member of these committees, I have followed the legislative process in this area. - it is not covered by Customs Inspection Officers. This, as you know, was also the uniformed service, the officers often performed activities called the police, or preparatory work on behalf of the prosecutor's office. They have often stopped the perpetrators of dangerous customs-treasure crimes, performed in uniforms, with guns. Later, they were mostly employed by the tax authorities. In my opinion, they were left out. I believe that they should also be covered by this law, i.e. that period of employment in the Customs Inspection should be included in the period on which the pension is granted to them as representatives of the uniformed services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee! I congratulate you on having managed to bring this project to some part of the finals. I have a question for the Minister: What has changed? What's changed in the last 18 months? The state before the election promises loudly, you support these actions, you say you are able to do it and you will do it once you are in power. After these 18 months of governing, you suddenly lean down gently over this project and say: Yes, but under other specific conditions. We already know that you are failing to comply with the Constitutional Court's judgments, because you have already shown this many times in your actions. Today we have another example of what you are not doing, and what is in line with the guidelines, with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. I wanted to ask you, Minister, why do you treat Customs like officers of a second or worse sort? What is the reason for such treatment of these people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u181	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u182	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Initiative Committee! These questions that you have asked Mr Siva, we have not been answered during the work of the Special Committee or during the work of the Committee. Why did you, first of all, try to reduce the period of employment in the Customs Service, second, impose an obligation on Customs employees to prove the scope of tasks and additional age criteria? And for that reason, and with the imposition of these criteria... The Minister did not answer how many officers, on the basis of this calculation - counting after 18 months - will be able to exercise the right to such a police pension. At first, it seemed that the solution was complete, in line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. We will therefore vote in favour of the first step. But this first step divided the uniformed services and this first step could be dangerous for other services, the point is that you might want to insert additional criteria there, depriving the staff of other uniformed services of this police pension. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Matusiewicz spoke about this. So, at least for today, we hope that at a later stage, during the work at the Senate, you will take our comments into account, unless by tomorrow there will be a position of the government restoring the draft in the form of a presentation of the Legislative Initiative Committee, which we cordially wish to the customs officers and to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u183	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Paweł Cybulski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u184	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to answer Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz's question. As far as the scope is concerned, all beneficiaries of this law are not covered by... Customs Inspection Officers employed in the UKS are not covered by this law. Those who were in the Customs Service at the date of delivery of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. as at 3 March 2015 There was a question by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, why Customs is treated as second-class service. This service is not treated - first of all, I wanted to emphasize it - as a second-class service, there never were such goals and never was there even such a way of thinking that we would go in this direction as a government side. On the other hand, here we want primarily to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court and the judgment of this tribunal. And from what I have heard, this operative part is given so generally, quite flatly, and here I will point out a clear record of this operative part of the Constitutional Tribunal, which says that: "to the extent that, among persons entitled to pension benefits, customs officers who perform the tasks set out in Article are ignored. 2 (2) Point 1 (4) (6) of the Customs Service Act of 27 August 2009 is incompatible with Article. 32 of the Constitution, i.e. generally, the Constitutional Tribunal referred to this provision of the Customs Service Act. With regard to Mrs Skowronska's question, why the period of employment has been reduced and the obligation to prove the period of service for the tasks has been imposed, I would refer here to... Oh, and second question: How many officers will be able to use the supply system? I have already responded here during the work of the committee that it is difficult to assess how many officers will be able to benefit from this, since work on the reform of the KAS and the adoption of new proposals is still ongoing... [[That's not even a thing.]] ...with new proposals, so it's hard to say... Excuse me? [[That's not even a thing.]] No, he has no idea like anybody else or anyone else. We have the provisions of the Act, we have the introduction of the KAS Act at the moment and we have the process of presenting a job proposal for all employees of the KAS, so we must wait until 31 May, because this is the deadline for presenting a job proposal for employees employed in the National Tax Administration. With regard to the first question, why periods of employment have been limited and the obligation to prove the period of service on the tasks imposed, I will refer again to the judgment, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in respect of the performance of tasks, and the Customs Service Act of 15 September 1999. As I mentioned, the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal clearly indicates the shortcomings of the previous law. And it's all on my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u186	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very pleased that the work on this project is finally coming to the finals, and I am surprised that although it is so important, it has not been adopted many years before. I agree with the applicants that the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 3 March 2015 only confirmed the fact that customs officers were discriminated against in pension matters. This is one of the reasons why I consider it reasonable to include customs officers in the same pension system as the other uniform services in force (police, ABW, BOR, etc.). However, I fully support the understanding of the Constitutional Court's judgment as set out in the Council of Ministers' position. It supports the development of legislative solutions for the implementation of the TK judgment, but not to such a large extent as the drafters of the law propose. In my opinion, it is appropriate that pension rights be granted in new terms only to those Customs officers who carry out tasks similar to those of the police. This, of course, raises a lot of controversy, especially among the interested ones themselves. Although I would very much like everyone, not only uniformed officers, to have the higher pensions and privileges they wish they could have in law, we must ensure the good and rational functioning of the entire legal and financial system of the state. Yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committee for several hours has aroused a lot of unnecessary emotions. Members were accused of distorting the ideas of the complex project that they were yet another segregation of services. That's ridiculous. After all, the committee has approved a bill that balances the pension rights of Customs officials. However, we must not forget that this extremely important service for our citizens has different tasks from, for example, the police. The arguments that benefits belong only to those who entered the service after 15 October 1999, because that is when a uniform uniformed Customs Service was created, are absolutely right for me. The date of entry into force of the Act was also controversial. The projectors and some of the Members called for the bill to enter into force as soon as possible. The joint committees accepted the amendment, which postpones this deadline to 1 January 2018. I believe that it is reasonable because of the transformations that are still taking place in uniform formations, and demanding an earlier entry into force of the law of 2 or 3 months is typically populist. I regret to say that the wave of criticism that the ruling crew met during the work on this bill is absurd. Unfortunately, few today appreciate the fact that after many years the Polish Customs Service has finally received justice in the framework of uniformed pension supplies. But it's typical of the total opposition that instead of enjoying and supporting good changes, it's just looking for a hole in the whole. I have no doubt that the draft law, supported by the joint civil committees, is important and necessary. Therefore, on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I request that it be adopted as soon as possible, which will eventually allow the uniforms of Poland to be uniformed in the field of pension provision, and that the Customs Service regain a sense of justice after years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u187	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a 15-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 44 hours 16 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Local Workers (prints No. 1324 and 1414). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Jaskola to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u188	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the committee, I am pleased to present a report on the joint two committees - the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy, on the Parliamentary draft law amending the law on local staff. On 22 March 2017, the committees, both joint committees, requested the rejection of the draft Print Act No 1324, which you have submitted in print No 1414. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, in my club speech, I will try to demonstrate the property of this project. I would just like to show at this point that this is a project that is extremely beneficial for citizens, especially in a time of state austerity, quite a number of administrations. We show these numbers. Besides, I'm very pleased that all the clubs in the study have spoken. Thank you very much. The rest in the club speech, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u189	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the report shall be held without the right to submit amendments and proposals. I'm opening a discussion. And I would ask you very much to address Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u190	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present a position on print No.1324, a draft law amending the Act on Local Workers, which assumes the removal of provisions concerning political offices operating at the various levels of local government, at the entrance, at the mayor, city president, old age or the Marshal of the voivodeship. The project assumes that contracts with local government staff of political offices employed as advisers, assistants will be terminated as of the date of entry into force of this Act. In the current legal system, individual heads of government, mayors, presidents, starosts, marshals have the possibility to hire assistants and advisers on the basis of a contract of employment. However, the Act does not specify the tasks to be performed by persons employed in these posts. For the employment of assistants and advisers there is no obligation to apply the provisions on free recruitment, and until 2013, assistants, advisers employed by that time, could be transferred to other posts, including office posts, and there was often a lack of external recruitment. It is also worth noting that the remuneration rules for advisers and assistants are the same as for other local staff. The advisers and assistants shall be entitled to the remuneration appropriate to the position occupied and the professional qualifications held, including the basic salary, the allowance for the long-term work, the Jubilee Prize and all the associated privileges. The liquidation of political offices in local governments will reduce red tape and look for savings in the administration and thus respond to social expectations. The Law and Justice Club, the following project, supports and will work on it in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u191	Mrs Halina Rozpondek, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm a little surprised at the Law and Justice position, but about that later. I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the draft law amending the Act on Local Workers, print No. 1324, and the position of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, print No. 1414. First of all, I would like to remind you that a similar project in print No 247 has already been examined by the High House and unanimously, almost unanimously, rejected by the subcommittee and subsequently by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. In the current project, there are no longer provisions relating to the liquidation of political offices in government structures, only the provisions relating to the recruitment of local staff as assistants and advisors are being repealed. The draft law proposes that the current law on local staff be removed from the current law in Art. 4 in paragraph 2. Point 2, i.e. the record of the posts of assistants and advisers, the deletion of Article. 17 on how to employ the above mentioned and on how to amend Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 - deletion from the list of posts laid down by the Council of Ministers' Regulation. Art. 2 of the proposed law assumes that employment contracts with currently employed advisers and assistants are terminated as of the date of entry into force of the law and Article. 3 sets the time limit for its entry into force. The Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy rejected the draft law by a large majority. The position of the Civic Platform Club is the same: we ask for the proposed bill to be rejected, we are in favour of the committee's position. According to our opinion, the bill is redundant, because the provision in the current law is optional and most local government units have not appointed any assistants or advisors at all. They're about 15%. municipalities, 14% the powiats and there are 57 posts in total in voivodship local governments. It is not true, as the applicants often say, that local governments employ incompetent persons in these positions. According to the Act, certain criteria relating to education and traineeships and to remuneration must be met. The advisor must have 5 years' work experience, higher education and appropriate competences, and an assistant to secondary education. Where such positions exist, they must be reflected in the budget of the commune, district or voivodeship approved by the councils of municipalities, powiats or seymikas. It should also be remembered that the number of assistants and advisers is limited depending on the size of the local government unit. During the adoption of the Act in 2008, as a result of a broad discussion, we decided to separate a group of employees who, with the governor or marshal, comes to the office and, after the end of the term of office, leaves with him. This is very clear. Local society, choosing a new council, district council or sejmik, or entrusting them with responsibilities again, also gives the possibility to select the closest employees and then the society will settle them in subsequent elections. The proposed bill also met with a negative opinion of local communities and organizations, including the Polish City Association and the Polish County Union. According to a survey conducted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which took part in 1875 communes, 246 powiats and 15 voivodships, at municipal and district level only 14 10 of these voivodships have assistants, and 11 of them have advisers. The total expenditure for this purpose shall not exceed PLN 25 million. If we made such free conversions as the applicants sometimes do, it would turn out that the average expenditure on the employment of assistants and advisors in individual self-government units amounts to about 10,000. zł. That amount, I don't think, is shocking. The Local Workers Act is 10 years old, and I, as a Member who has been in close contact with local governments, have never heard of the need to liquidate these posts. As I said at the outset, the bill submitted is a piece of the previously processed and rejected, so why bring it back? Does this result from the silent agreement of the ruling party to hit local governments while leaving political offices in peace? Finally, let the fact that advisors and assistants were not eliminated from the article bear witness about the sloppyness of this law. Article 6 (6) (a) 3th Act in force. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote against the bill and support the position of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in print 1414. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u194	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The project that we are looking at, which the High House is considering today, is of course an extremely beneficial project for society. As I said before, this is a project that shows the need for savings in public administration, a very large one. Especially when future voivodships are being designed, it is not unreasonable to submit such a proposal, such an amendment. Of course, the project also shows the calculations, these calculations you have. I would just like to remind you that the calculations from the justification of the project are calculations from 2015, of course they are incomplete calculations. Almost 25% The municipalities did not reply to the survey because they did not have to, and this process of obtaining answers was quite difficult. I would like to draw attention to the fact that local workers called assistants and advisors are of course... we can discuss whether they are competent or not, and probably such accusations on one side and on the other side there will be a lot, but we would like to finally clarify the situation so that society is clear. The large apparatus of local government administration, and this is social reception, is enough, I hope - respecting local government officials who do hard work - efficient that they can cope with the tasks that the governor, the mayor or the president puts in front of him. So the qualifications are, of course, but minimal. I would also like to point out that this amount of 25 million is significantly understated, because we only have data from the end of 2015, we do not really know what the actual situation is now, whether it is an amount e.g. 50 million, because we're not only short of municipalities, we're short of counties in this ranking. At the same time, please note that the rotation of these assistants and advisers can be very large. Of course, one might wonder if the mayor, mayor or president should not have people with whom he enters the office. This is an argument, but please note that there is also a counter-argument, because this governor, the mayor or the president, entering the office, comes very often to employees who are employees of his local government, i.e. he should know them and undoubtedly trust them. And when he enters the office and brings his group, I could ask if he trusts the government that chose him. And since the government has chosen him and has given him great trust by choosing him as president, mayor or mayor, then it is absolutely necessary to trust local workers who are already in this system, and to waste more money on advisors and assistants. All the more so because the Supreme Chamber of Control also said so, all the more so, ladies and gentlemen - and for this I thank all the parties - that our project is a project that refers to all the projects of all political parties, and I would like to thank PSL, Platform and Law and Justice, because this is exactly what you submitted in previous terms. You are absolutely right: this is an unnecessary expense for the state. You're absolutely right: you have to trust the local government. You are absolutely right: the executive authority in the municipality, entering this municipality, has the right camera and we do not need to create further positions here. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, when today Poles are watching this debate - a debate that is going on with its rhythm - they will ask themselves whether it is so easy to say: PLN 25 million, PLN 50 million. Let us remember that many Poles have 20-, 30-year loans that they pay in pain, in sweat. The important thing is that we can help them make the public administration more friendly, more citizen-related. Let's trust the uncles and mayors and trust the local government, which is definitely working well, and there isn't any. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the need for assistants and advisers to operate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u195	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on Local Employees falsely suggests that there are political offices in local governments. This is written directly in the justification itself, while, if we look literally at the content of this law, nowhere will you find a record of the functioning of political offices. It's in the government administration. However, the law actually in force gives the possibility for assistants and advisers in local government units to be employed in a different manner depending on their size. In the case of municipalities up to 100,000. It is three people, for larger units respectively - five and seven people. Under this law, around 10,000 employees can be employed in the entire local government. the persons, moreover, the applicant stated this quite precisely also in the explanatory memorandum. What's the employment status for today? Under 1,000. people, so the provisions of the Act are used very little, that is only 10%. In addition, I would like to say to you that the bill falsely suggests that people who do not work are employed for these positions, because not only are the 25 million zlotys that the applicant spoke about, you write as potential savings, but you believe that the cost of saving them is still 25 million zlotys, because you have 50 million zlotys. That's not true, but why are you writing this? It seems to me that there is one very important reason - because your assistants in local government units were mistaken for assistants in government administration. You're looking at assistants through the Misiewicz prism, and that's not true. These people in local governments often do the hardest, hardest work, are still at the disposal of their superiors, presidents, marshals, seniors. Ladies and gentlemen, I guarantee you this and I say it from my own experience: assistants in local governments don't crash in limos, they don't drive beems - you have to believe it - and they don't work for 12,000. Evil like Misiewicz. They get a modest salary. Modern is for rejecting this project, because we cannot support pure demagogy, populism in any way, because we do not have our consent. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that if you would like to find some elements that can be introduced, I would like to say that the local government also functioned when there was no such possibility. This will in no way change the state of employment. On the other hand, it seems to me that you were the club that supported the solution that PiS submitted, and there the possibility of hiring in a different way, outside the Civil Service Act, covered the entire management. So you're expanding the government administration in an unlikely way, mostly it's the ruling option. I direct these words to the Law and Justice: You leave political offices, and you do something that, in my view, there is no translation, and there will be no savings, and of course you are well aware of it. If you want to look for savings, you had to protest very strongly, like us. We did, against the de facto liquidation of the Civil Service Act, because the savings are right here. The fact that we were right, everyone knows today, because everyone knows after a year and a half... It's not just Misiewicz, Janniger, these ranks probably include thousands of people in Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u197	Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As former self-government officer: 6 years - the governor, 4 years - councilman of the commune, 4 years almost - councilman of the Sejmik Voivodship Mazowieckiego, I have a big problem with assessing the intentions of the applicants, because, frankly, also having parliamentary experience, I observe overproduction of law, overproduction of various kinds of regulations. It seems to us politicians that life can fit into this legal framework, and this life is smarter, faster than legislative work, and every once in a while we get out of these different corsets. Mr Jaskół emphasized very strongly in his club speech that it is necessary to trust the uncles, the mayors, the presidents. Since you have so much confidence and I have great confidence in the local community, there is no need to create another regulation which, yes, creates appearances of supposed savings, but also as an officer of practice I will tell you that there are thousands of ways to avoid such restrictions and prohibitions. And one of the best ways not to go around not to create that kind of fictional regulation is to have public social control. If the mayor or the president mismanage the municipality, mismanage the city, then the second term is gone. After 4 years - goodbye, no one will trust him with this function anymore. If he hires people... In 1990, as a young man at the time, I went through the process of changing from communist administration to local government. We also had regulations to extort the employment relationship, re-appointing the employees. I didn't have assistants. I used this base that I had at the municipal office, but I chose the best. [[Applause]] And I think that creating only a legal framework and such restrictions will not change anything, so personally, but also on behalf of the club, I am in favour of not working on this project. I am a little surprised to see the position of PiS representative, Mr Wozniak, also a former self-government officer who sees no problem in the government's political offices, but noticed the problem when it comes to assistants and advisers in the local government. I want to make it clear that I have government experience, too. In my first term of office I had a political office, in the second term I resigned because it could be done by employees. In the same legal framework, a good host will manage. [[Applause]] So believe in your enemies and mayors and do not impose legal restrictions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a written statement on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle. Two Members and a Member from the Civic Platform have entered the list of people who want to ask questions. These can only be questions addressed to the rapporteur because there is no representative of the Ministry. So if anyone has a question for the Minister, they won't get an answer. I'm closing the list. Time - 1 minute. You are beginning Małgorzata Płępek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In local governments, especially larger ones, we tend to deal with specific tasks. Projects, including EU, of a large scale, requiring a lot of responsibility are being carried out. Currently, if they are able to do so, they can hire an advisor to help them in their work. If we remove these positions, the tasks they carry out will have to be assigned to someone on the basis of civil law agreements or to hire someone in official positions. At municipal and district level, only a dozen percent of the units employ advisors and assistants. Do we really have to take away another freedom from city and commune loaders, which is how they organize their jobs? In addition, I would like to point out that if there are no advisers, the employment of the Vice-Vice-Presidents and the costs will definitely increase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bigger. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u202	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant or the applicant's representative and the rapporteur in one person. I have a few questions for you. I'll start with the simple ones, this ABC. In your self-government, political career, were you a councilman, a function such as the function of the governor, a deputy uncle, an assistant of the governor, or maybe a councillor? In your career as a professional, was this your job? Second question. Why do you keep bringing the formula of the political office into this discussion here? Why are you giving the voters the wrong information? There are no such records in the Local Government Act, there are no such records. Are you able to cite the functions and occupations of this president's advisors, their education, their competences, their [[♪ The bell ♪]] the period has its function? Don't you think that the president, the governor and the mayor elected by society can choose those co-workers that they don't have? Isn't it the people's right to cancel or choose him again? They're the ones who have to decide. Do you believe that the removal of these positions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u203	Mr President, we are going to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u204	...doesn't cause employment to decrease anyway? Because the number of inspectors or other employees to carry out these tasks will increase. Do you know...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u205	Mr President, please move towards completion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u206	...what additional influence did a given city or individual or municipality gain by maintaining these assistants, even funds from the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u207	Please, Mrs Halina Rozpondek, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said in my statement, the scale of hiring advisors and assistants is really small if we are looking at the whole country. According to the regulation... Because the bill still has a regulation, where everything is clearly written: competence, remuneration, etc. As far as remuneration is concerned, advisors, assistants have far lower levels than other employees in the local government, which is why I wanted to ask you, and I asked you in committee: What in return? If, in theory, we eliminate these positions of advisors and assistants today, we know that these employees are about to move to regular official positions of the type of inspector, specialist, etc. with a much bigger salary. Do you know, sir, that some of the chiefs prefer to hire advisors to whom [[♪ The bell ♪]] They will pay less than e.g. Deputy uncle? I think that's why it's worth leaving this record so that the uncles have the right to choose. Uncles and old men, of course. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u209	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. I do not know if you were surprised by the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Do you remember who filed a motion to reject this project? Do you remember the speeches made by Members of the Law and Justice at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Home Affairs and Administration and Local Government? Do any of these Members, and I have a transcript in front of me... Mrs Hrynkiewicz spoke, Mr Czartoryski said, Mr Kalet said. Everyone was very much following this bill, saying that you are absolutely wrong. Are you aware of the reasons for changing this position, completely different from what was presented at the committee meeting? Finally, do you not think that, if we want to be so fair, Members should also not have the right to choose their co-workers at their discretion? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u211	And Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club, will ask the last question in this part of the meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As it happens, I was the councilman of the Sejm four terms and one term of office of the councillor of the commune. I think I know the customs there pretty well, and I think this is the most successful reform in our country. This area is very experienced today. It is the management of communes by wójts, mayors, presidents today almost 100% With a few incidents, it's going well. Every uncle, every president must be free to hire suitable advisors for his decisions. That's normal. No one is exaggerating in this respect, and no one is straining it and the solutions that are set out in this law are unacceptable in my opinion. The data you have at your disposal, to my knowledge, is too sharp and this law [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will be harmful to local governments. I repeat: more trust. It's about what some of my previous speakers said the governor is the doorman today, but if he goes too far, he won't be tomorrow. Same with other solutions. [[Question, sir, question.]] Therefore, let us leave the local governments alone, let us not play with their leadership positions. They know what they're doing. These are small gremia, small environments, in large are other rules, in large voivodeship cities, while here I am satisfied with these municipalities, those districts in which it functions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u214	...co-operates with what they're doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u215	Thank you, sir. That was the last question. While Mr Sebastian Chwałek appeared to us at the meeting at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, I understand that, in the absence of presence with questions, you will allow the rapporteur to answer Mr Jaskola's committee in this situation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u216	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In my notes, of course, I will try quickly to answer the questions asked by the honourable parliamentarians. Mrs Płęp was talking about the government being able to hire... I understand here the intention that it would be fair if he couldn't hire his assistants and advisors. It'll be fair, because he's still operating his own administrative resource as head of this structure. The answer to your question... Oh, I'm sorry, but there was also a question from the honourable Member whether there would be an increase in employment. Of course, an honest self-governmentman will not increase his employment. [[Who's gonna help him?]] We can, of course, exchange. Ladies and gentlemen, I am familiar with examples of the fact that partisan youth is employed in the positions of second and third drivers. Of course, we can go completely absurd and consider that we will employ, just remember that taxpayers work in public administration and they must weigh every dollar they spend. In this respect, I think a fair uncle will say, "Okay, I'll do without it," after the removal of such positions as assistants and advisors. Mr Gadowski... I don't think there's an interesting answer. [[I'll tell him.]] Sure, you're welcome. No, of course I was never a councilman, because that was Mr Gadowski's question. But what does that mean? I did not live in the times of Living I nor lived in the times of World War II. What does that mean? [[Inexperience.]] No, sir. You're wrong. You're still a member of the government, sir. The fact that you've been here four or five times... [[In his term of office.]] ...four or five times you've been in your term of office, I agree, of course you need to cut these terms to two because you're getting too used to it. And I would put this thesis, counterthesis: you're used to positions and representation. [[Then what am I doing here?]] Two-cadence is very appealing. [[In the Seym, too.]] In the Seym too, absolutely. I agree, yes, in the Seym, in the Senate, two-channel elections. The number of officials is increasing. Okay. Mr Gadowski said that the number of officials - a very similar question - will increase. I will answer the same as Mrs Navel. If we have an honest municipality manager, it won't grow, because it will adapt to the law that we will adopt. But there's one more thing. I think one of my fellow Members misunderstood me. Pay attention to that. It seems to me that as a man who would like to be e.g. When I won the election, I wouldn't just try to save the public pennies when I entered the office. And I do this by controlling the local government of Częstochowa, I recommend to you, among others. the Częstochowa hybrid case. The second thing would be that if I were to be cut off from certain opportunities when it comes to advisers and assistants, I could really develop people who have very good skills and work at the office every day. This is the result and testimony of just a great deal of trust. Mrs Rozpondek points to too small a scale. This is the Member from my district. I answer: of course, just remember that you use about 15% . Well, the bill gives opportunities, almost 10,000. People. Second, we don't have all the data. Our data is incomplete and from 2015. We don't really know how each other's buoys affected the employment of assistants and advisors. We don't know that. We don't know that. I thank the Ministry for preparing this data for us, but they are from 2015, because local governments are not obliged to provide such information. It was only the good will of the local government, and because we lack 25%. data, it can't be concluded from here that it's such a small number. In return, you ask the Member. Indeed, she says: there will be shifts in the positions of inspectors. I'm just talking about the Częstochowa example. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Exactly. [[Interesting.]] That is the problem: hire and hire, employ more than enough. What's in return? Nothing in return, ladies and gentlemen. The honorable mayor, the president, will acknowledge that these positions are no longer in place. And there are people who are trustworthy, whom he can appoint from the office, because he has been elected by the local government. After all, every member, every citizen of the commune is a local government. We are here - we are only representatives. Like the mayors, mayors are only representatives. I hope I'm satisfied with that answer. Mr Owl. Mr Owa asked why PiS changed his mind. [[He's mature.]] It's absolutely a matter of how I convince you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Besides, I must say that most of you say that it is not so bad with this justification and the bill. But I'd like to add one more thing. Please pay attention, you remember - and well - how wonderful projects you have done exactly the same in this respect. And thank you for saying that 5, 6 years ago you spoke about the same content and in the same way. Secondly, let me remind you that we are already working on the second project. I would like to remind you that there was a phenomenal discussion in the subcommittee and that fate was at stake there. You've finally found out about the rejection of this aggregate project, and we've shown so modestly here... [[Very.]] ...listen, this is a good forecast to show that the government can save money after all. I would add: there are more savings. E.g. Most local governments - none of you talk about it - are unable to collect their own VAT. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, most people can't, and that's the problem. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, for the stuff you bought. [[It's from a vending machine.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no, no.]] No, not really. And you see, sir, four terms in a seymour are damaging. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Can Members have their own assistants? Yes, they can, because the nature of the job is completely different. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we can't distinguish between the nature of the work of a parliamentarian who's been working since the beginning, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, And I built a pretty good one, because I think we're pretty good at controlling the municipal authorities in the area, and we have wojettes and presidents who are phenomenally collaborating, and we also have wolves who work badly, but please note, how can you compare the camera of several dozen or several hundred officials - in Częstochowa it is 1300 people in the city office itself - to the parliamentarian who is elected as a Member and who creates this apparatus from the beginning. Micro-aparate - micro-aparate - because these are usually two or three people on very starving pensions. If you want someone like that... [[You're infatuated with Czestochowa in another dimension.]] Because Czestochowa is a miracle, sir. And what Mr Aichler said. With Mr Aichler, he is a lovely, phenomenal man, but, unfortunately, in his questions, I apologize, in my time for asking questions usually he does not ask these questions. I didn't hear the question, so I can't answer something I didn't hear. Nevertheless, I hope that I have satisfied the response of all of you. Thank you very much, Your Honored Marshal, Minister. [[Can I correct it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u217	You're welcome, sir. But wait a minute, sir, I didn't give you the floor. What do you want this corrigendum on? [[Misinterpreted by your rapporteur.]] One minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u218	It doesn't even take 30 seconds. Mr President, I do not want - and that was not my intention - to show that all the employees in the offices are to be employed as they please. Because this bill shows very precisely that there could be three people, up to 100,000... A maximum of seven people. So can President Częstochowa like you choose a co-worker or not? Because the bill says the president has the right to choose his assistant at his discretion. He doesn't talk about clerks, because clerks... As you know, the bill contains a special role for the secretary. He's the one who's recruiting the entire local staff corps. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u219	You still want to take the floor, sir, I understand, as the rapporteur of the committee? Because it's not supposed to be polemic anymore. Otherwise, I won't give you the floor. [[Of course.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u220	Dear Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Of course I do, and I understand the intention, while with a camera of 1,300 people, you can select 1,300 people who are already employed and employed who will cooperate with the President. And if he doesn't, our commune host feels strange in the community where he won the election. Then I'm sorry for your fate. The state condemns such a city friar to the fate of an alien ship among evil officials, and it is not. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] Speaking of hiring in Częstochowa, I'm gonna throw in a name like that. Or maybe no names. It is specially made in Częstochowa company... [[Please.]] ...or a subsidiary to hire the president's co-workers. [[That's awful.]] But that doesn't mean we're supposed to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u221	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u222	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Local Workers Act. The projectors in the explanatory memorandum stress that the amendments to the Act meet social expectations, because they will allow the government to save PLN 50 million. The idea itself is noble, but unfortunately I do not believe that adequate data in this regard has been invoked. I must also point out that we don't all know everything. Therefore, hiring advisers and assistants at the level of both local government and state administration is essential for the proper and substantive functioning of many offices. I do not have the arguments of designers who claim that the connection between assistants and advisors is personal, personal. It is hard to imagine that the closest associate is not personally involved in the success of the employer. She doesn't become a close person to some extent. Not only is competence, but trust is the basis for fruitful cooperation. Of course, hiring advisors and assistants without competitions should be eliminated against the law. However, I do not see the need to deprive the possibility of hiring assistants and advisers at the level of municipalities. What was emphasized during the committee's work, I would also like to highlight: no one is forcing anyone to fill these posts. The municipalities themselves estimate their financial opportunities and decide whether or not to employ additional employees. I do not understand the reservations about hiring assistants previously involved in political work. After all, it is their experience and often their social sensitivity that guarantees the employer that they are not accidental persons. I agree with the opinion of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and, in view of the numerous doubts raised by the draft during the committee's work, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u223	We will proceed to the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Union Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal electricity market (recast) as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity (prints 1515 and 1524). I ask Mrs Izabela Kloc to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, The Commission for European Union Affairs at its 126th meeting on 21 April considered a draft Commission resolution of the Sejm containing a reasoned opinion on non-compliance with the subsidiarity principle of the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal electricity market. On 10 May this year. The committee carried out its first reading of the Commission's draft resolution. For the record. The assessment of the conformity of draft legislative acts of the European Union has become the law of national parliaments and an element of parliamentary diplomacy since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon. National parliaments thus contribute to the proper functioning of the European Union. National Parliaments shall ensure that, in areas which do not fall under the exclusive competence of the European Union, action is taken only if, and only to that extent, the objectives of the intended action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member State at both central and regional and local levels and can be better achieved at Union level by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action. It should be noted here that the draft regulation does not contain the required Treaty justification for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Such justification should include a detailed statement enabling the assessment of compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality as well as an assessment of the financial implications of the European Union act concerned. The grounds for finding that the Union target can be better achieved at Union level should be justified on the basis of qualitative indicators and, where possible, quantitative indicators. In accordance with the Treaty provisions, any Chamber of the National Parliament may send a reasoned opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission within 8 weeks of the date of transmission of the draft legislative act containing the reasons why it considers that the draft is not in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. That's when it comes to procedural issues. On the other hand, when referring to substantive matters, it must be stated that the reasoned opinion annexed to the draft resolution of the Sejm contains the reasons why the Sejm considers that the draft regulation does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. Why? Firstly, it is considered unacceptable to take binding decisions at Union level in relation to the construction of cross-border connections which change the overall structure of energy supply from domestic production to imports. The need to pursue the Treaty objective of promoting cross-border mergers is not called into question, but this cannot be identified as taking decisions at Union level to build them and to oblige Member States to build them, irrespective of the economic efficiency and the state's decision on the overall energy supply structure. The proposed administrative means of forcing this process must be considered far-reaching. The subsidiarity principle is considered to infringe the proposed regulation on the possibility of applying measures at Union level affecting the structure of energy supply. These measures include, first, a ban on the construction of a dual-use market consisting of a power market and an energy market and the use of national energy resources in order to address the problem of insufficient resources at national level when the adequacy of resources at European level and the need for a priority rather than equivalent treatment of interconnection and demand-side response is identified. Secondly, the introduction of a CO2 limit of not more than 550 g CO2/kWh for the proposed support schemes for the construction of new generation capacities, power markets, and CO2 emission limits for entities participating in this market. This will lead to practical exclusion of the possibility of market share of coal power plants. Maintaining this limit will lead to the exclusion of the most economical and flexible measures to address the lack of generation capacity, which could ultimately result in an increase in energy poverty. Third, the requirement that resources derived from transmission congestion revenues be used to maintain interconnection capacity or to expand new interconnection capacity and that they cannot be used as income taken into account in the calculation of tariffs. In the case of a draft regulation, no formal requirements for compliance with the subsidiarity principle have been observed. The European Commission has not sufficiently justified that the objectives pursued by the proposed regulation cannot be better regulated at national level. The absence of such justification, in particular the lack of qualitative and quantitative indicators, constitutes an infringement of Article. 5 Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The lack of such justification makes it very difficult if it does not prevent national parliaments from exercising their power to control respect for the principle of subsidiarity. Consequently, it may also be considered as a breach of Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 of the Treaty on European Union, according to which, in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation, the Union and the Member States respect each other and assist each other in carrying out their tasks under the Treaties. High Izbo! The Polish Sejm and the Senate are not the only Chambers of Parliaments of the European Union which have considered adopting a reasoned opinion on this draft regulation contained in the document on the signature COM (2016) 861. As of 9 May this year. reasoned opinions were adopted by both chambers of the German Parliament, by the Hungarian Parliament, the Chamber of Members of the Czech Parliament and the Senate of the Romanian Parliament. At the same time, it should be stressed that the two successive parliaments - Danish and Lithuanian - despite the fact that the draft was compatible with the principle of subsidiarity, presented their opinions in the framework of the political dialogue containing a number of critical comments on the draft regulation. Poland also presented this opinion in the framework of the political dialogue with regard to the regulation on integrated national energy and climate plans. This concerns COM (2016) 759, 860. It should be recalled that on 15 December 2016, at the request of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the conclusions of the European Council included a provision on the need to ensure freedom of action for Member States to ensure the necessary level of security of electricity supply at national level without discrimination against coal sources, which in some Member States are the cornerstone of energy security. The Member States of the European Union should have the means to ensure long-term capacity adequacy on the basis of certain stable and available energy sources. According to the Commission for European Union Affairs, limiting the sovereignty of the Member States of the European Union in choosing the necessary measures by introducing procedural, technological and economic barriers is incompatible with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In order to present the Polish argument and strengthen our opposition to the unfavourable solutions proposed in the draft regulation as President of the Parliamentary Commission for European Affairs, I have sent a letter to the chairmen of the committees for the European national parliaments of the Member States of the Union, in which I inform you of our reservations about the draft regulation. Similar actions have been taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. From direct discussions with the chairmen of the European Affairs Committee, among others: last in the framework of 7 and 8 May this year. meetings with committee presidents from Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia show that they support Polish reservations regarding the winter package, in particular regarding this regulation that we are talking about today. Polish opposition to our direct impact on our and regional energy security has been widely accepted to restrict the Treaty's right to independent shaping of its own energy mix. This is the position of Prime Minister Szydło at the European Council meeting on 16 December. The idea of introducing a emission threshold of 550 g CO2 /kWh, which mainly discriminates against Poland, has also been negatively assessed. The relatively short period of introduction of emission reductions was also critically assessed, which may mean for Poland that drastic changes in energy generation need to be made. The Commission requests the adoption of this draft resolution on the recognition of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal electricity market as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u225	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I remind you that according to the article. 148cc (paragraph 148c) 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the report shall be held without the right to submit amendments. I'm opening a discussion. I ask that Mrs Izabela Kloc speak again, but this time on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u226	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Commission adopted the so-called "European Commission' on 30 November 2016. winter package. Of course, we knew about this date, we expected that this winter package would be adopted, unfortunately at the last minute, as we often discussed during committee meetings, there were included adverse solutions for Poland. I would like to remind you that Poland was the main initiator of the Energy Union in 2014, but the way in which this idea is implemented today is negative. The Polish position with regard to the European Commission's winter package is sceptical. Poland raises a number of significant objections to these proposals, which are aimed, in our view, primarily at weakening our energy security. Law and Justice precludes the proposed provisions from restricting the Treaty law of a Member State to the independent formation of an energy mix, firstly. Secondly, we oppose the introduction of the 550 g CO2/kWh benchmark. It is a discriminatory mechanism for countries such as Poland. Today we base our energy security on coal in almost 80%. We believe that the proposed provisions absolutely need to be modified to allow Member States to support the construction of new coal-based power plants. We believe that local electricity producers must have a level playing field on the European Union market, but also on external markets. The functioning of the electricity system should be based on market principles, without creating precisely artificial barriers such as emission thresholds. We do not agree that decarbonisation will become a specific religion of the European Union. It is also unacceptable that targets for renewable energy sources and energy efficiency are binding on Member States and that Member States need to design an investigation to them based on these objectives. At the same time, we believe that the recommendations made by the European Commission on the application of the objectives and measures and the path of access, as contained in the draft regulations, precisely: the recommendations must not be binding on the Member State. The European Commission must not go beyond the role provided for in the Treaties. The idea of a financial platform to be provided by Member States considered less ambitious by the European Commission to achieve its objectives is particularly opposed. This is unacceptable. We have recently met with the Chairs of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The European Union of the Baltic countries and together we recognised that the decline in energy security in Poland will have a negative impact on the level of energy security in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. The issue of energy security for us is as important as it is for our neighbours in the Central European region. While, of course, appreciating the importance of cross-border energy cooperation, we oppose the creation of regional energy centres in place of national energy management centres, which have a specific responsibility. For these reasons, we believe that the Polish Parliament should adopt a reasoned opinion under the so-called procedure. the yellow card on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity, namely COM 861. The emission threshold proposed by the European Commission in the draft regulation as an energy source favours gas and eliminates coal-based technologies, including these modern technologies. In this way it interferes with national support mechanisms and effectively strikes the possibility of creating new energy sources based on national fuels in the Member States, in our case on coal. In our view, this is a clear violation of the rights guaranteed by the Treaties of a Member State and we will demand that the rights of a Member State be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal electricity market as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity, print Nos 1515 and 1524. The winter package, because this is what our resolution concerns, is, on the one hand, needed to achieve the energy objectives of the European Union, among others. 40% reduction of greenhouse gases by 2030, a share of the RES of 27% or increased to 30% of the energy efficiency target, on the other hand, by an overly restrictive approach to some solutions puts Polish energy in a dramatic situation, with an increasing number of signs asking for our energy mix and the path of energy development. The package appears one year after the 2015 elections, when our development is decided by the Government of Law and Justice. The resolution is examined six months later, when the awareness of the very low effectiveness of PiS governments in the European arena reached most Poles, and this document is as never and will test the effectiveness of the government in the Union arena, a test for diplomacy, for the ability to build alliances, a test for our readiness to conduct proceedings based on energy security of Poland. All Polish energy is waiting for this efficiency. In April we were at an away meeting of the European Commission at the Łaziska power plant, where the questions were anxious. It is up to this decision whether or not 200 MW blocks will be profitable. In Konin, people ask whether electricity production from lignite will be profitable at all. In Jaworzno and Opole they are concerned about the energy price and the power market, thanks to which the entire investment was profitable. This is where the questions arise as to whether the Polish government will be effective in the negotiation process. This resolution calling into question proposals for solutions on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity is an essential element in the procedure to stop certain solutions. Will it be effective? In the light of what the government has done so far, questions arise. Firstly, why did the government allow the European Commission to enter 550 g CO2 /kWh? Were there contacts with the Commission throughout 2016 when the document was finalised? Secondly, why does the government go into negotiations without having its own energy policy? The last energy policy is from 2009. Does the lack of this policy help in effective negotiations or hinders? Thirdly, how does the government build a coalition of political and substantive support for its demands? We already know about the Bundesrat, the Bundestag, Romania and Denmark, but they oppose for completely different reasons. Who has similar opinions and reservations? In order for our proposal to be effective, we need to get a third of the votes in the yellow card procedure. Are we ready for the orange card procedure? What are we currently doing in the European Parliament? Fourthly, why is such an important document being processed with delays? The opinion of the European Union Committee on Affairs should be 14 April and today is 10 May. Are these delays due to the government's surprise shape of the package? Fifthly, if the procedure for blocking the regulation fails, will we challenge some of the decisions to the ECJ? Sixthly, will the government in the European Union be guided by merely questioning the legal basis, as was the case in the case of the famous 27:1, or will it be based on subsidiarity itself? Will it reach for the nuclear button in the form of a veto? Or will he be conducting political discussions where there is a negotiating space between and the substantive one? So, after seven, do we know the field of our concessions? Do we, for example, have knowledge of 550 g CO2? What factor are we able to accept? For example, the modern power plant in Jaworzno will have about 700 g. Will we strive for an average scale from all over Poland or from individual installations? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of a resolution supporting its reservations, but we will monitor the government's actions in the European Union arena, and we will not refuse to help if the government asks for it. However, we demand substantive and effective diplomacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u229	Mr Sylvester Khrushch... I wonder if we should continue to hold the session of the Sejm, given the final statement made by Mr... [[What?]] ...who didn't notice that I was holding the sitting, but that's okay. Mr Sylwester Khrushch made his speech on behalf of the Kukiz club15 in writing. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will therefore speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! This resolution concerns, in fact, the winter package, which unfortunately puts Polish electricity in a very difficult situation. It does not fit to the least extent with recent governments' ideas for market development based solely on the coal and lignite production base. I would like to stress that this does not only apply to the current office, but also to the previous office. The European Commission has proposed a CO2 cap for publicly supported electricity generators to operate in the power market. In this way, it wants to prevent subsidies for coal-fired power plants, which are, in the Commission's view, a source of CO2 emissions and have a significant impact on the state of the air in the Member States. The Commission's policy is to ensure that new power plants which would benefit from support under the Capacity Mechanism comply with high environmental standards. The proposed CO2 /kWh emission limit is 550 g, which at the current level of technological development excludes coal power plants. Experts indicate that higher emissions are predicted even for very modern Opole Power Plant building blocks. In other words, the CCM introduces a limit of 550 g CO2 /kWh, while the performance of the best, as has already been said, reaches a minimum of 700 g. The Commission's proposal thus prevents the participation of current coal-based generation sources in the power market proposed by some countries, including the power market proposed by Poland, which is expected to occur soon. The basic charge, which should be addressed to the last governments, not only to the current but also to the previous ones, is that Poland has not in fact had a strategy for the development of the electricity sector for several years. We say this as Modern at every opportunity, we stress this in the meetings of each committee that such a document should exist. Once again, the last document was adopted in 2009, less than eight years ago. It's a long time. It must be added that the document also left much to be desired. In fact, anyone could find something for themselves in it. RES solutions, solid fuel solutions. Nuclear energy was also recorded there. Today, very often from the government, we hear such a message that the changes, even if they were made in the winter package, are so important, so revolutionary that any draft of such a document that would be prepared would require an immediate revision. But we have to have a document like that. Especially now, when there are a lot of these unknowns, when there are many of these elements of energy puzzle, we need to have a rigid strategy in order to achieve the goals that are strategic for Poland. We will support this resolution, but not without doubt, Minister. I'm not saying I'm asking for this strategy anymore, but I just want you to prepare this strategy. Even let her be flawed, let us discuss this document, but she must finally be prepared. Planning is not only a domain of the communist economy. Planning is also carried out in the current system and it must finally, this work, end and present it. Critically, but with a sense of responsibility, we will approach this document. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u231	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda made his speech on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party in writing. Four people have entered the list of Members who wish to ask a question in this section. Would any of you like to sign up? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. And she begins with the first question by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the question, Madam President, whether we really have awareness and orientation... Uh-huh. Are we gonna ask anybody? Do the government and the applicants have an orientation that this yellow card they want to show to the Commission, the European Union, can actually be a red card that Poland will receive? And it's not the first. Why are we only reacting now, why we do not have an effective energy policy in the Brussels field, why we allow such spectacular failures as 28 February at the Council of Environment Ministers, and only recently, 19 April, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 9. The spectacular failure caused the economic committee to change its position and move away from fairy-tale carbon-absorbing solutions, CO2? Why are we able to stomp our feet, and we can't work and work together? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u233	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, we are debating a resolution today, but actually what it brings to it has probably been going on for a few years, but in the recent period, a year, it has moved on to dialogue and work on specific legal acts in the European Union. And we've been able to discuss what's going on there for over a year. Minister, Secretary of State Mr Michał Kurtyka at committee or team meetings made it clear that Poland could work on these legal acts for a year. I wanted to ask the Minister who personally participated in this dialogue with the European Commission, with the European Union from the ministers responsible for matters, whether climate or energy. What was the position when it was and where it was possible to get acquainted with these documents submitted by the Government of Law and Justice? We would like to know that, because there is no doubt that we must protect our coal today, which is still the basis for security. [[♪ The bell ♪]] energy in the near future, and demand that these CO2 emissions be increased in relation to our power plants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you're a man of faith, but I'm just wondering, what scale is this belief that we're gonna make it? Is that 50%, 90, 100? I know it is very difficult to say, but everyone thinking and thinking about the strategy - especially if we do not have an energy strategy of Poland, we are waiting for it with longing - must ask himself what will happen if it does not work. So what plan B is going to be, what that means for investment processes, how the map will look like. abandoned investments in Poland resulting from this decision, e.g. 550, and in the case of transmission networks from regionalisation and cross-border networks? What will be the issue of social consequences and economic consequences as a result of this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You think it won't work or when it does? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15, will ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a quick question. What losses have we suffered, talking about our country, related to the transfer of energy across other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u239	And last question, Mr Konrad Głębocki, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u240	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the question whether it is true that the European Commission is unfortunately increasingly not commenting on EU documents and has such a treaty obligation, the principle of subsidiarity. It's one sentence away. This was also the case with the regulation... of the directive, I apologise for the workers posted to perform the services. On the other hand, I would appeal to Mr Nowak to be remembered... [[To the Minister and the rapporteur.]] ... because it is absolutely necessary not to know the legislative procedure in the European Union in order to accuse the Polish government that it did not affect the European Commission in the drafting of this legislation. After all, the European Commission has an exclusive legislative initiative... [[There's a consult.]] ...and until she's made a legal act, it's up to her to decide. You ask your commissioner, who your government has been posting... [[But he's not the energy commissioner.]] ...to the European Commission because it was the whole European Commission that made this decision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So come to your senses. [[Please be more effective.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u241	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer the questions asked by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy by Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the first words, as in the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to express my sincere thanks for this initiative, for the mode of debate, discussion, unanimous adoption in committee and approval here by other clubs, too, of the position that undermines the principle of subsidiarity in this legislation. Before I go to individual answers, I would like to say that we are facing a very important decision not only in terms of energy but also in terms of the economy in Poland. A political dispute, which should be in every democratic state, because that is also what democracy is about, that we are discussing, we are fighting, but it must be weighed in terms of the size of the undertaking. Let me tell you this: if you believe that the Polish government is responsible and blamed for the introduction of the 550 g/kWh provision, you do not understand the problem. I am sorry that you are smiling and use the word "failure," etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I have personally spoken to Commissioner Bieńkowska and I am not calling her to criticize her. No. She has also committed herself to this issue, and as Deputy Minister, I can publicly thank her for her commitment. This is not a failure either by the Commissioner or by this government, because, ladies and gentlemen, we have consulted 1600 pages because we need to know the size of the document on an ongoing basis. I invite you to read every word of this document and our comments. Ladies and gentlemen, the board of Commissioners, which gathers and customarily accepts the document prepared and, first, the day before, the directors of each Commissioner meet and then express their final opinion before the board of Commissioners... It happened on Monday. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a document in which there was a gap, a void when it comes to entering these unfortunate 550 g/kWh. Check it out. Please do not use the word "failure." Yes, it is a failure, but the European Union, its legislative procedure. Please take this into account, as we must make it clear that the procedure for dealing with a number of legal acts is scandalous at Brussels level. If we are to torture ourselves in national countries, countries, instead of reaching a position, we are only giving a summary that we cannot work out and see the legislative problem at Brussels level. Ladies and gentlemen, right after the Council of Commissioners adopted this, next week Minister Tchórzewski went to a meeting of energy ministers, even though it was not on the agenda - so immediately, from day to day when it was possible, we reacted - and there was a certain undermining of the legislative procedure concerning this legislation, on organisational matters, because it was not on the agenda. We then prepared, through a committee set up by the Committee on European Affairs, the position of the government on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just quote some of the wordings that are in this document, because your questions were about that too. First of all, I would like to point out that this is a regulation. The European Parliament, so this will not be adopted by legal acts in each Member State, only this will apply. There is also something like BAT, ETS, next to the winter package. Here, Mr President, the ETS was confused with the winter package, because it concerns something a little different, but it also has a negative effect on industry. Please note that some proceedings concerning, for example, the ETS - and I do not burden this omission of the previous government - took place a little earlier. Because there is a certain phenomenon of economic abrasion through legislation adopted at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, we can share much in the vision of the world, in the world view, in the way we would like Poland, by a kind God, let us not share in this discussion in relation to the Brussels issue. Of course, I thank Mr Gryglas and not only Mr Gryglas for calling up the energy strategy again. It's out of the question. We are currently working very hard in the resort, we have even accelerated the energy mix with many variants, because today we have to take into account what we have, also when it comes to heat plants and decisions about BAT, which complicates what we have already prepared, because this is also definitely backing us up. As you know, we also need to calculate. If we really couldn't withdraw the total amount of 550 and introduce e.g. 700, 800 or 650, these are the options we need to have prepared. Thank you, sir, because you are right here. We need to anticipate these options. But, ladies and gentlemen, the simple recording of a certain size is related to the financial assembly, to the technology on which the relevant power block, the size of this block, the investment timetable must be based. One concept is that we have a cycle of economic events that we need to take into account. Hence this strategy, the energy mix, is such a complex and serious document that must trigger and probably trigger - and rightly so - our substantive discussion, because our decisions this year, in future and Parliament's decisions will result after 2021, 2022, because then we will conclude some investments, and secondly, we must also decide what we are modernising, where we are building new blocks, what is profitable for us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a great national enterprise. Look, since the change in the system, there haven't been such a big investment on such a scale. I am just going to quote the government position, because this is where the concern about social issues, which will have consequences when it comes to the Polish economy, was rightly triggered. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that not only in Poland, but also in some Member States - and here I have a government position - to give up the use of available fossil fuel resources, and this will happen that there is no place for brown coal, there is no place for coal... Ladies and gentlemen, something that for many years... Actually, there's no dispute here about the political scene. Gasification of coal... We're very close to technology deployment. This technology may not be responding to these records of the winter package, and we must be aware of that too. What is this winter package? He's just introducing us? Greater involvement in the Polish economy, in natural gas energy, and thus more dependence on the supplier if we do not have this quantity on the Polish market. And also weigh on Nord Stream, the winter package and the Polish position in all this. We, through the winter package, can actually have a big problem, because we are losing an important position in terms of energy sovereignty, which all governments have pursued and we are also determined to do. That is why it must unite us, because it is not a matter of failure of the government - it is a matter of the state of Poland. Here we should decide about the vision, not the nodding of our heads, that the Minister of the Government of Law and Justice must always be wrong, Madam, because this is because you do not know, however, when you do not accept rational arguments, the importance of this phenomenon. That is why I am all the more grateful for this initiative of the European Union Committee on Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have 83% today, energy based on stone coal, brown coal and we will have to give up these two fossils, then imagine what will happen and what we will replace the shortage of energy, and he must appear on the Polish market. Are we able to obtain from the outside energy actually competitive and in the right quantity, so that all Poland is covered by electricity supply? We can't. So, on the one hand, we have a social issue about the fact that in those areas where today we have organized matters in the brown coal, hard coal sector, we are faced with decisions on, for example, what is going to happen in the case of brown coal as far as investment is concerned. At a time when, God forbid, we will not be able to reject this regulation, to withdraw from legal circulation in the European Union, we will face a big problem as to how to shape Polish energy. So the social impact must be in many areas when it comes to unemployment, because then the whole system of the mining environment, when it comes to coal, brown coal, will be associated with it. As far as the economic impact is concerned, as I said, we have an undisputed problem, replacing our fossils with our energy system. The financial impact, please countries, is also linked to investments in individual sources and emissions-related burdens. Not to mention, I ask you, that it is undisputed that we do not allow ourselves as a sovereign country in the European Union to choose an energy mix, because if we are administratively imposing emissions at such a level, let us note that it is clear: we can use natural gas, we can use RES - and that is also a specific RES - and from a nuclear power plant, which we as a government also take into account to make it appear in the system. However, the fact that it will appear to us, unfortunately it will not be a strengthening of Polish energy, but it will be a certain response to the winter package, but certainly will not make us escape with demand in terms of Polish energy, because we have to withdraw some blocks from the Polish system due to their historical nature. Thank you, as far as questions are concerned, for your interest in the problem. Once again, I really thank you for discussing, at least everyone, the energy issue of the winter package. As for the question of Mr Romecki about the losses that appear in transit, we will calculate this and answer you in writing. About mode and so-called. I have told you my failure, and I would really ask you not to say in Poland that it is a failure of the government, because then we justify something that should not happen at the level of the European Union or in any Member State so as to proceed with such important legal acts and put into practice the issues that are decisive for economic generations in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u243	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Isabella Kloc, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! I wanted to address these two issues that two parliamentarians have taken up in terms of timeliness. We - and it is certainly the Member who knows very well - are in the timely transmission of this opinion to the EU bodies. [[You didn't fit in the committee.]] The Commission was able to fit in, as well as the Sejm, as this date is exactly 17 May 2017. I hope we vote this out tomorrow, so we can fit in on our statutory terms. I'm watching this very closely. I also observe how this happens in other parliaments. And not all of them have accepted these opinions. We're still waiting. However, I have another question, perhaps rhetorical: do you know where this 550 g/kWh CO2 ratio occurred? It was 2013. And who was in charge then? Civic Platform and PSL. That was precisely the time when this benchmark was set, and this was set within the framework of the European Investment Bank, where it was decided that the European Investment Bank would grant loans, loans only and exclusively to low-carbon energy projects, and this is where this comes from. And since it was such a sudden story about this 550, it's not like anyone else... Here some of you were also in Brussels at our away meeting of the European Union's Committee on Affairs, where Commissioner Elżbieta Bieńkowska also welcomed us, and she, being a Commissioner, learned about it only during the meeting of Commissioners. It was also done as if a little, so I would say, in secret and in strict secrecy, that such a throwaway would apply to Poland. So I think that here the government is absolutely, totally justified, because today, as far as I know, there are also talks with Commissioner Sefčovič. We also talked to the Commissioner there many times. We'll see. We're in the middle of a negotiation. I think that's it. I just want to say it as a curiosity. With regard to the consumption of solid fuels by individual countries of the European Union, I must say who is ahead of us when it comes to coal. The Germans are ahead of us, they're using twice as much coal. This is the data from 2014: Poland - 129 and Germany - 274 TWh. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u245	Ms Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform, came forward on the issue of corrigendum. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to correct it, and that's what I'm sending to the Minister. Don't accuse me of not understanding the importance of the subject or rationality, because this charge would have to be directed to everyone but us. Please refer this charge to other countries. And please do not talk about a full understanding of all countries, because this full understanding looks like the meeting of environmental ministers that I referred to, although it was the ETS, but these are exactly the same schemes: unprepared for negotiations then we start to hystericalize and toss. The European Union acts on the basis of agreements and consensus, not on the basis of shouting and insulting at everyone, because this insulting can... At the moment there are also conversations. at the European Economic Congress. It could throw away an opportunity for agreement and finding it by those, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who should be doing this - through the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u247	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal electricity market (recast) as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. According to the draft resolution of the Polish Parliament, the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity (recast) does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU). According to the project promoters, this project violates the subsidiarity principle as the proposed regulation does not ensure that the objectives of the intended action at Union level are achieved in a better way than those of national action. In addition, the projectors argue that it is unacceptable at EU level to decide on the construction of cross-border connections that change the overall structure of energy supply from domestic production to imports. Without questioning the need to pursue the implementation referred to in Article. Paragraph 194. 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) the objective of promoting interconnection should be to ensure that this is not the same as taking decisions at Union level to build them and oblige Member States to build them, irrespective of the economic efficiency and the State's decision on the overall energy supply structure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I present my position on the committee's report on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal electricity market as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Since the beginning of our membership of the European Union, it has been stressed that the principle of subsidiarity is one of the guarantors of our sovereignty in relations with the European Parliament and the Council. It has been stressed that, in areas which do not fall under the exclusive competence of the European Union, the principle of subsidiarity upholds the decision-making capacity and action at Member State level and constitutes a legal justification for Union intervention if the objectives of the action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at Union level. The objective of introducing the principle into the European Treaties was therefore to exercise competence at the level as close as possible to the citizen, in accordance with the principle of proximity. The draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity is incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Member States are trying to dictate binding regulations for the construction of cross-border connections, which change the overall structure of energy supply from domestic production to imports. Poland is an importer of electricity, last year its consumption exceeded national production. In total, electricity imports covered the demand of about 1 million families. However, much more energy flows through our networks than we order. From Germany to Poland, electricity flows to the Czech Republic and Slovakia, then back to southern Germany and Austria, Slovenia or Italy. Germany has too poorly developed transmission networks to deliver all contracted energy from the north to the south of the country and to Austria, so energy flows through neighbouring networks as so-called. circular flows. Of course, we all agree that Poland should expand, modernise and modernise its infrastructure. However, the proposed resolution rightly points out that it is unacceptable for a binding Member State at EU level to decide on the construction of cross-border connections that change the overall structure of energy supply from domestic production to imports. The plans to create a common energy market are very ambitious. The Commission would like to move away from centralised large energy production blocks and rely on diffuse RES. Some time ago, a bold vision was presented to establish fair rules for the exchange of energy between countries that will strengthen competition and take into account the characteristics of national and regional markets. It is planned to establish compensation mechanisms for cross-border flows of electricity and harmonised rules for the shaping of cross-border transmission charges and the allocation of available capacity on cross-border lines. However, these plans are far from being implemented, but we already see today that the proposed administrative means of forcing this process are undemocratic and incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Kukiz'15 recognises that the solutions contained in the EU document can be easily discussed and implemented at national level. We therefore support the resolution of the Sejm in its proposed form. The draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Through our electricity grids much more energy is transmitted than we order, mostly electricity coming from Germany. I have questions: Do we bear additional costs? Does WW. Transport brings proportionate benefits? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u250	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law Code of Administrative Procedure (Print No 1499). I ask Mr Ireneusz Breś to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Group, I have the honour to provide a justification for the proposed amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure Act, print No 1499. High Seym! In the draft amendment of the Law of 14 June 1960, the Code of Administrative Procedure is to give the public administration the right to waive suspended proceedings in the event of the death of the party and its statutory representative or to lose the legal capacity of the party or the legal representative. The draft law provides for an extension of the possibility of winding up proceedings after the expiry of the three-year period of suspension of proceedings also in the event of other grounds for compulsory suspension of proceedings. Article 4 is replaced by the following: § 97 § 1 of the Code of Administrative Procedure requires the public administration body to suspend proceedings, inter alia. in the event of the death of a party or of one of the parties, where it is not possible to call on the heirs of the deceased party to participate in the proceedings and the circumstances referred to in Article are not met. 30 § 5, and the proceedings are not subject to remission as without object - Article. 105. In the event of suspension of proceedings due to the death of a party or one of the parties to the proceedings, the issuing of the relevant order shall be preceded by the determination by the public administration of the impossibility of requesting successors of the deceased party. The fact that the heirs cannot be summoned is most often due to the impossibility of establishing them. In accordance with the provision of the Article. 1027 of the Law of 23 April 1964. The Civil Code to a third party who does not claim inheritance rights, the heir can prove his rights arising from succession only with a statement of inheritance or with a registered certificate of inheritance. The caselaw points to the lack of procedural legitimacy of public administrations to initiate proceedings for the acquisition of inheritance after the deceased in the course of the proceedings of the parties. Moreover, in the vast majority of cases, there are also no grounds for the appointment of a curator of a non-observed inheritance, since according to the view expressed by the representatives of the judicature, the inheritance is considered to be excluded if the heir or heir did not actually fall into storage, management or use. The lack of interest of the heirs of the deceased party to the proceedings or the lack of legal capacity to establish the title of succession results in the absence of the possibility of a suspended administrative procedure leading to the suspension of proceedings for an indefinite period. In this case, there is a state of uncertainty, undesirable from the point of view of the law, the interests of the other parties to the proceedings, and contrary to one of the main principles of administrative procedure, the principle of speed, according to which public authorities should act in a thorough and prompt manner, using the simplest possible means to deal with it. The period of 3 years proposed in the Act to remove the obstacle that is not possible to establish heirs is long enough for us to obtain an order on the acquisition of an inheritance or an act of certificate of inheritance or to call for participation in proceedings of previously established heirs. The proposed condition limiting the use of an administrative remission institution is the demonstration by the public administration of the absence of a threat to the legitimate interest of the parties or to the social interest. The assessment would be carried out each time by a public administration body and would be subject to judicial and administrative review. Analogical regulation is contained in the Article. 182 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code according to which the court terminates proceedings suspended at the parties' request or at the request of the heir, as well as for the reasons set out in Article. Paragraph 177 (1) (5) and (6) shall apply if the application for proceedings has not been lodged within one year of the date of the suspension order. In addition, the court will terminate the proceedings in the absence of a legal successor to a party who has lost its judicial capacity and in any event one year after the date of the decision to suspend the proceedings for this reason. The Tribunal shall also terminate the proceedings in the event of the death of the party after the expiry of years 5 from the date of the decision to suspend the proceedings for this reason. In addition, Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 130 § 1 of the Law of 30 August 2002. The law on proceedings before administrative courts provides that the court shall waive suspended proceedings if the application for proceedings suspended at the request of the parties or for the reasons set out in the Article. 125, optional conditions for suspension of proceedings, Paragraph 1 (3) has not been notified within 3 years of the date of the suspension proceedings or if there is no legal successor to the party who has lost its judicial capacity, and in any event 3 years after the date of the suspension order for this reason, or in the event of the death of the party, 5 years after the date of the suspension order for this reason. We therefore propose, in view of the above arguments, to extend the possibility of withdrawing proceedings after the expiry of the three-year period of suspension of proceedings also in the event of other conditions of mandatory suspension of proceedings, i.e. the death of the legal representative of the party or the loss of legal capacity by the party or its statutory representative. The entry into force of the proposed regulation does not affect the state budget. The bill will have a very positive socio-economic impact. These chronic cases suspended ad calendas Graecas are very many and the parties have repeatedly reported this problem on the duty of Members of the Civic Platform. We believe that this provision will end many suspended administrative proceedings and will be well received by Polish citizens. On behalf of Members of the Civic Platform - because this is a project that, you can say, can bring the whole House together - I ask that all political factions in the Polish Parliament support this change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u252	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. I see you left the justice committee to honor us with your presence and comments and comments on the project on behalf of the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u253	Dear and Nice Miss Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure, print No 1499. As claimed by the applicants, the purpose is to give the public administration authority the right to terminate the suspended proceedings in the event of the death of the party, its statutory representative or the loss by the party or the legal representative of the legal capacity if this does not jeopardise the legitimate interest of the parties or the social interest. In other words, the project leads to an extension of the possibility of withdrawing proceedings after the expiry of the three-year period of suspension of proceedings also in the event of other grounds for compulsory suspension of proceedings. The solution presented in the draft leaves a far-reaching freedom for the public administration to decide on the termination of the administrative procedure. The analysis of the project shows that the proposed free assessment of the possibility of winding up proceedings is strictly discretionary and will not be restricted. The designers do not explain how the assessment of the legitimate interest of the parties will be carried out. This is particularly important in a situation of legitimate interest of another party opposing the termination of proceedings, which cannot be represented at any time. This raises the question of how the public administration will then make arrangements to confirm or exclude the existence of a legitimate interest of the parties. Contrary to the views of the designers, it is not possible to confirm the effectiveness of the implementation of any in-house or judicial review of a decision taken under the conditions indicated, taking into account, in particular, the fact that it cannot be effectively served by an undisclosed party. In addition, the draft lacks the justification given by the applicants in the justification for the draft thesis that the proposed regulation will have a positive socio-economic impact. This is another proposal to change the administrative procedure. Let me remind you that a few weeks ago, the Sejm adopted a comprehensive amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure. This project was part of a package prepared by the Ministry of Development of 100 changes for companies, a package of facilitations for entrepreneurs. Multiplication of the amendment of laws, and even more so of codes, is not good legislative practice, especially when it comes to changing only one rule. For these reasons, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club is in favour of stopping legislative work on Draft Printing Act No 1499. We ask that the project be rejected in its entirety at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u254	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested draft law amending the Law The Code of Administrative Procedure provides for the right of the public administration to terminate suspended proceedings in the event of the death of the party, its statutory representative or the loss by the party or the legal representative of the legal capacity to act. According to the proposal submitted by the Member, the proposal for a waiver of such proceedings could take place 3 years after the date on which the suspension order was issued, and the authority would have to assess whether the waiver would have occurred prior to the termination of such proceedings. does not jeopardise the legitimate interest of the parties or the social interest. Currently, the lack of interest of the heirs of the deceased party to the proceedings or the lack of legal capacity to establish the title of succession results in a lack of possibility to take suspended administrative proceedings, leading to the suspension of proceedings for an indefinite period of time. There is no doubt in this case a state of uncertainty, undesirable from the point of view of the legal order, interests of the other parties to the proceedings and contrary to one of the main principles of administrative proceedings, namely the principle of speed of proceedings, according to which public authorities should act efficiently, carefully, using the simplest possible means to resolve the matter. The period of 3 years proposed in the Act to remove the obstacle to the establishment of heirs is a period sufficiently long to obtain a provision on the acquisition of an inheritance or certificate of inheritance or a call to participate in the proceedings of the previously established heirs. It is worth noting that the legal solutions proposed in the draft are also similar to those in the Code of Civil Procedure and in the Law on Administrative Courts. In view of the above, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this bill by handing it over to the next work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u256	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project provides for the addition to the Act of 14 June 1960 (Journal of Laws). U. z 2016 poz. 23. 105 after § 2 additional paragraph which would entitle the public administration authority to waive proceedings 3 years after the date of the suspension order due to the death of one of the parties, its statutory representative, the death of the representative of the party. And here is the first question: Why after three years, not e.g. Two years, one year or five years? To this end, applicants propose in their proposal to add: if this does not jeopardise the legitimate interest of the parties or the social interest. The question is how this party's interests or social interests can be established again. In the proposed draft law, the main amendment is to grant the public administration the right to terminate suspended proceedings in the event of a party's death or loss by a party, its legal representative. According to the projectors in the current legal state, this situation results in a long-term procedure and inability to make a decision. In our view, this may raise doubts, especially when it is difficult to establish such an heir, because he lives outside the country, for example. In the other hemisphere. The proposalers in the explanatory memorandum indicate that a condition limiting the use of an administrative remission institution is that the public administration demonstrates that there is no threat to the legitimate interest of the parties or to the social interest. The assessment would be carried out each time by a public administration body and would be subject to judicial and administrative review. However, the designers do not add that in order for this check to be carried out, the decision of the authority must be challenged. Nor does it convince us in this draft to refer to the text of the article. § 182 §1 (p.c.) and Article. 130 § 1 of the Law of 30 August 2002. Law on proceedings before administrative courts. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let me quote an article. 105 § 1. What's he saying? When the procedure for any reason - I stress - for any reason has become unobtrusive in whole or in part, the public administration decides to discontinue the proceedings in full or in part respectively. What does § 2 say? The public administration may terminate the proceedings if requested by the party at whose request the proceedings were initiated and not opposed by other parties and where this is not contrary to the public interest. Because in these two paragraphs it is consummated § 3. This, moreover, is fully confirmed by the current case law. There is no need for overregulation. I admit honestly that when I read this project, at first I agreed with it until I read § 1 and 2 because I have the overwhelming impression that this change is being proposed for a specific matter. Unfortunately, the law cannot be built on a specific matter. I am referring to comments and case law in this area. It's clear. Let me just read it again from the comment: Unobjectfulness referred to in the article. 105 § 1 c.p.a., must be considered together with the provision of Article. 97 § 1 point 1 of the Commercial Code. - where proceedings are pending on personal rights or obligations which do not become legal successors as they relate to a particular person, the death of the party shall give rise to the termination of the proceedings. So if any court or e.g. some office is dragging the case for 10 years because it is afraid to make a decision based on § 1 or 2, that's no reason to change the code. So as a Kukiz movement, we will be against continuing our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u258	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the parliamentary draft law amending the law Code of Administrative Procedure, print No 1499. The proposal proposed by the applicants states that the public administration may terminate the suspended proceedings 3 years after the date of the suspension order due to the death of a party or one of the parties, the death of a legal representative of the party or the loss of legal capacity by the party or by its statutory representative if this does not jeopardise the legitimate interest of the parties or the social interest. This is to enable the administrative procedure to be terminated in the event of the death of the party and the inability to determine the heirs or where no one covers the inheritance. We find such a solution interesting. At present, such proceedings are suspended indefinitely. Similar solutions to those proposed exist in the Code of Civil Procedure and the Law of Procedure before administrative courts, but there is a period of 5 years. Our position is to pass on this proposal for further work in committees because it seems to be absolutely in line with the Constitution, the absence of any costs associated with the implementation of this law. There are two doubts you can try to explain. The justification for the project does not sufficiently explain the consequences of automatic termination of proceedings in the event of the death of a statutory representative of a party or the loss by a party or by its statutory representative of legal capacity. As I said before, the Modern Club will be in favour of handing this project over to committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u260	Mr Mirosław Pampuch is absent and we therefore proceed to Mr Krzysztof Paszyk's speech, the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure, contained in print No 1499. The purpose of this project is to give the public administration authority the right to terminate suspended proceedings in the event of the death of a party, its statutory representative or the loss of legal capacity by a party or a legal representative. The draft law provides for an extension of the possibility of winding up proceedings after the expiry of the three-year period of suspension of proceedings also in the event of other grounds for compulsory suspension of proceedings. Article 4 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 97 (1) of the Code of Administrative Procedure requires the public administration to suspend proceedings in the event of the death of a party or one of the parties if the request for the heirs of the deceased party to participate in the proceedings is not possible and does not take place under the circumstances referred to in Article 30 (5) and the proceedings are not subject to remission as unfounded. That's what Art talks about. 105. In such a case, the suspension of proceedings shall be preceded by the determination by the public administration of the impossibility of requesting legal successors of the deceased party. The lack of possibility to summon heirs is usually due to the impossibility of establishing them. In accordance with the provision of the Article. 1027 Civil Code to a third party who does not claim inheritance rights, the heir may prove his right as a result of succession only with a statement of inheritance or with a registered certificate of inheritance. The caselaw points to the lack of procedural legitimacy of public administrations to initiate proceedings for the acquisition of the estate after the deceased in the course of the proceedings. Moreover, in most cases, there is also no reason to appoint a curator for the non-observed inheritance, since according to the view expressed by the representatives of the judicature, the inheritance is considered to be excluded if the heir or heirs have not actually taken the fall into custody, management or use. The lack of interest of the heirs of the deceased party to the proceedings or the lack of legal capacity to establish the title of succession results in a lack of possibility for suspended administrative proceedings, leading to the suspension of proceedings for an infinite period. As the project applicants argue, in this case there is a state of uncertainty that is not desirable from the point of view of the legal order, the interests of the other parties to the proceedings, and which is contrary to one of the main principles of administrative conduct, namely the principle of speed of conduct whereby public administrations should act in a thorough and prompt manner, using the simplest possible means to deal with it. High Izbo! This draft amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure aims to reduce uncertainty and eliminate the state of suspension in which many parties to proceedings are present in our country. Often for many years they cannot finally decide e.g. the legal status of the immovable property. The project is certainly an answer in the context of this problem, giving the public authorities the opportunity to withdraw their proceedings 3 years after the date of the decision to suspend proceedings due to the death of the party. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of passing the project to the committee. We will certainly continue to support him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u262	Thank you so much for speaking. One Member, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has entered the list of Members who would like to ask a question. You're welcome. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I don't hear any calls, so I'm closing the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If the project is designed to enhance the coherence and logic of the legal system, why is the period to be redeemed different than in similar cases in civil proceedings and in proceedings before administrative courts? Wouldn't it be worthwhile for consistency to make this period the same in all proceedings? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u264	Mr President, this is a question for the representative... [[To the applicant.]] I ask you to answer me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I thank you for this question, because this is a matter that should be resolved in the course of further work. Our proposal may not be perfect, but it results from other coded solutions. They're not consistent, but they're already functioning. Thank you for the position of the Modern and Polish People's Party. It seems to me that, despite all that the representatives of Kukiz and today's ruling club, the Law and Justice Club, this is some sort of misunderstanding of the problem. The Kukiz Member15 believes that today's law is okay and can be applied, but we need courageous officials who will apply this law. But it is not used, sir. You're looking at the interests of hypothetical stakeholders who haven't revealed themselves in 15 and 20 years. I call on you and your club to consider voting tomorrow whether it is worth giving it a chance to consult on the committee's work. We're presenting a particular problem because we met him. These are the stories of specific people in Poland who say: take care of it, because we, although we have the right to do our business on this road, cannot do it. And it's not 3 years, it's not 10, sometimes it's 15 years. On the other hand, you are looking for the interest of a person who, for years, maybe living in the second hemisphere of our planet, is not interested in this conduct at all. If three years is much or little, I don't know, but I think if someone's interested in their case, they'll reveal it in three years. Maybe the committee needs to debate this, as Mr Meysztowicz says, in order to harmonise these periods in all the rules, so that they are, I don't know, four years, five years. Let's talk about it, but let's not throw it away because it's something that's been a problem in public offices for years. And it's not done. I, too, appeal to the representative of the Law and Justice: give the committee a chance to discuss and consult. Give it time to talk about it. You can put it out, close it at another stage, but not at this point, because I think in the middle of a job... I know how to rule, it's sure, it seems, small civil affairs you don't think, you haven't touched this problem. Touch this problem, you'll have time. I appeal for this matter absolutely post-political, but concrete, resulting from many voices of residents, Polish citizens who say: We are helpless, we stand in offices, we have no hope. So? Tomorrow you'll tell them, "Do you still have no hope?" Congratulations. Parliament is not for that. If there is a concrete, even point project, which, however, settles a lot of matters, settles cases suspended for years, then I believe it is the duty of Parliament to consider this rather than to put it out after the preliminary debate in the Polish Parliament. So that I am addressing my colleague from Law and Justice here, and I ask you to consider the possibility of working on this project, because, as I say, it is better to consult it even further, perhaps improving this project as part of the work in Parliament and accepting it, so as to serve citizens, stakeholders in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u266	Minister Sebastian Chwałek also asked for the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the moment, we do not yet have the government's position on this project, it is being examined at the moment, but it is nevertheless worth presenting the position of the Minister of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. We have some doubts about this project, of course these doubts have already sounded today. They concern whether, in order to be sure, these solutions will lead to speeding up proceedings. They will certainly result in more requests to resume in situations where, for some reason, they will turn out to be interested after this decision, so it may not speed up at all, but it may cause a lot of complications. There's also an element that was raining here as well. There has been a major revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure recently. I don't remember this element being reported for work. As frequent changes in important, however often, codes are not conducive to the stability of the law, citizens' confidence in the law. I am a little surprised that we have actually just finished working on this procedure, there were wide discussions on different options for simplification, and this element could also have become part of the discussion in committee, and we could have talked about it. I really feel like this is about a specific case... [[A lot of things.]] ...because in the Ministry of Home Affairs we make a lot of administrative decisions, the proceedings are going on - there is no way that the proceedings are going on for 20 years. At the moment, there are mechanisms in the Code of Administrative Procedure that may be able to end in a situation where the conditions are met. If there is such a specific case, it might be worth showing it and presenting it, because it may not be a question of the need to change the entire Code of Administrative Procedure, perhaps you can take advantage of the current solutions. There is a specific issue of great freedom for the authorities, for officials who will at this point take decisions, specifying what is the legitimate interest of the party as a pretext, the sole condition for the termination of the proceedings. It's not the same understanding we have in the article. 7 k.p.a., because one official will simply decide that in his opinion there is such a premise, and at this point he concludes the case. Perhaps it will improve the statistics, because there will be a number of cases that have been de facto closed; in the repertoire it will be, so to speak, as the case is over. All these doubts in the assessment of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration allow us to conclude that we do not see the need to work on this project. We regret that it was not possible to talk about these issues during a major revision. I'm sure we could get to know this particular case, because I think it's a matter of... We don't have it... I mean. Doctrine doesn't report such problems. I would like to take note of requests or requests from citizens who are really struggling with this long process on specific issues. I therefore call once again not to carry on this work, because in our view, the Code of Administrative Procedure actually gives opportunities and grounds for rational conduct. If this goes on, it's the duration of the procedure. Neither can officials because they know that they will be controlled; that is not how it works. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u268	Thank you very much. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act (Print No 1498). I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, to recommend to the High House the draft printing law No. 1498 concerning changes to the Labour Code. The High Izbo, the legislator in the Labour Code in Section VIII, defined the rights of workers in relation to parenting, included a number of rights that can be exercised by the worker who raises the child. The rights should be mentioned among others.: ban on pregnant and nursing women's work, ban on the employer's termination of employment contracts for pregnant workers, and during maternity leave, pregnant women must not be employed during overtime or during the night, maternity leave or parental leave, the right to maternity and paternity leave, leave to feed the child or the obligation to obtain the young woman's consent to send her to a delegation. In accordance with the general standards contained in the Labour Code, working time must not exceed 8 hours per day and on average 40 hours per 5-day week, and in the case of settlements over a longer period, if we settle this over a longer period, these conditions must be met within a 4-month period. According to Eurostat data, it is clear that the actual working time of Poles is longer. We are crossing the European Union average, which is 37 hours. For Poland it is 40 hours, almost 41 hours. Poland is in third place, at this highest level, i.e. Poles work the longest when it comes to the countries of Europe. Our neighbours - Slovakia, Czech Republic, Romania, Croatia and Hungary have much shorter working hours. Poles work more than 3 hours longer during the accounting period, i.e. during the week, compared to the European Union's average working time. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I'm sorry. Minister! High Izbo! The aim of the project, which I am presenting, is to introduce a reduced working time for an employee who takes care of a child under the age of 10. If both parents or carers of the child are employed, only one parent or carer of the child will be entitled to a reduced working time. According to the project, a child-care worker will be able to benefit from a reduced working period of 7 hours per day until they are 10 years old. This raises the question - why 10 rather than 9 because such questions have appeared and they will certainly appear. So we thought, this is a topic for discussion - it could be 11, it could be 9. You just have to work out the best solution here, but it's not something that, so to speak, a rigid period or age, to criticize it, because some people have undertaken to criticize it. Ten, how does that work? The child's independence, self - conduct, coming from school, returning home from school, or doing other activities. Thus, the worker retains the right to pay for unpaid working time, and this has nothing to do with less remuneration. In addition to providing shorter working time for women who use this time to feed their child in the first months or even years of their lives, the opinion of the projectors is that there is a need for reduced working time for those involved in child rearing, which would allow one parent, first of all, to be calmer, milder, safer to transport, transport, carry out a child from school or from kindergarten. In Poland, more than 50% of workers believe that the working environment is not conducive to the integration of professional and private life. Of course, there are already a number of solutions, such as crèches or kindergartens, all the time when it comes to the infrastructure involved in raising a child, which has been increased for several years, but research shows that many carers of the child as the biggest problem in their professional life point to reaching educational institutions where children often stay until late afternoons or even evenings. Imagine that at about an hour. 7 this child must be transported to school, because it is sometimes associated with traveling to the second part of the city. On the other hand, there is a parent who goes to work at hours. 8. It's also because he has to take care of the baby first. At 8 hours of work, it is very common that - especially when parents work in another city and arrive at home in the late afternoon - the child is in the facility 10, 11 or 12 hours. This is not a good situation, it is not conducive to the good development of the child, it is not conducive to family integration. There is no family warmth there, parents do not have time in the late evening to take care of the child. So when it comes to family life, it's at least 20%. absenteeism is greater among workers who take care of the child for various reasons. Productivity - this is also shown by research - in recent hours there is less work among those who are already thinking about whether they will be able to pick up the child in time or not. This project responds to the expectations of parents, is a continuation of the country's pro-family policy. I would like to remind you that one of the first introduced benefits given to parents of newborn children was a one-off benefit from the birth of a child, so-called. Uh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That, too, caused a lot of controversy at the time, and I remember it perfectly. We've been able to come up with such a consensus here that we've even increased by 100%. the amount previously proposed and this has been well accepted, has functioned well. Later there were some modernizations of these solutions, but today we do not imagine that this so-called one. The expedition, the pebbly one wasn't there. In 2010, paternity leave was introduced, the main objective of which was to activate fathers working under a contract of employment. In 2013, a very interesting solution was introduced, which had also been taken before, but had caused controversy and was not adopted, thus extending maternity leave to 52 weeks. We have today, in terms of this solution, one of the longest maternity leave. This, too, should be considered a success, even though it caused opposition and considerable controversy in different environments at the time. Another thing that has been accepted is at least PLN 1000 per month for the first year of maternity leave in terms of raising a child. As I said earlier, the solution proposed by us will effectively affect the effectiveness of employees. The project does not have direct financial implications for the state budget - this must also be emphasised. Local authorities are not directly affected either. Now maybe a few more things to do with it. This solution is an investment in the family, this is a long-term investment. Very often we talk about a family, about a healthy family, about the need to strengthen the family. That's the investment in the family. She won't work in the first year or the second year. We know what family problems are today. We know how families are looking for better solutions for themselves, for their children, going abroad - which could also be confirmed by a lot of data - because there are better conditions for bringing up children, for raising children. I'm already skipping higher wages, but these family things are always the first place. So we have an investment here that's put off in time. This is very important, very important. It's not that only money can help us with our children and improve the demographic we're talking about today. Money can't buy family happiness, family warmth, parenting. You have to look for other solutions. There may be a lot of these solutions, and certainly these proposals will come up. The Polish People's Party also intends to make other proposals in this area, because there is this issue, the need to increase the childhood and, above all, to improve this familyhood. Of course, there are protests, some protest. Employers will bear the cost and renunciation of this. That's not entirely true, because we all have to take care of it together. It can't just be the interests of the state or the interests of one or the other social or professional group. Everyone must be involved in solving this family's childhood and health problem. Of course, the government also has a share here, it can have - and this is important - by helping employers. Employers bear enormous administrative burdens. This analysis is estimated to account for around 3% of the administrative burden. GDP in our country. This is already going to tens of billions of zlotys, that is approx. 40. 50 billion zlotys. If we were to look at reporting, all these IT reporting cases, control cases, the nuisance of control, the length of control... These actions must be undertaken. Employers are just signaling it. They say - in terms of administrative burdens - that they could hire more people, increase their efficiency. I'm sure that would serve everyone better. So here's the action, too... They used to be run. This may be the case at the moment, but it must be carried out continuously, because these costs are always increasing. A frequent change of laws, laws, also means that many workers must devote a lot of time to learning, training. To conclude, High Izbo, I would like to say that this is an important project, it is a project that meets the expectations of many families. It is not that all parents, all mothers who have children, after this law will want to work less. Some ladies, some moms are telling me that they're gonna be okay, somehow they're solving this problem, because every family operates under different conditions, there are no two similar arrangements, so to speak, family. However, there are families who are really affected by this problem, which is a very big problem, which causes later, for the future, various family failures, because the child is unattended, is not properly cared for by parents. Of course this will not solve the problem, you need to be aware of it, because this hour will not cure the situation, but it would be a step forward, it would be a signal that we support such actions, we support pro-family policy, because it is necessary. We have called for this solidarity to be shown by the employers, on tomorrow, when the vote will be on this, because today we are just starting the process, that they also want to work together, and where possible, even though there are no legal solutions, they have offered these parents, these carers, an hour off. That would be such a great signal, and that is what I call for. This does not mean that these proposed solutions are perfect, we will work on them. I think we need a few more details, a few clarifications, but let's show that we're gonna be doing this job. Therefore, your marshal, passing this project today, I ask that you continue to proceed over it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u270	Thank you very much for presenting the proposal. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. I hope the voice will allow you, after all, to appear on behalf of the club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u271	Thank you, Marshal, I'll do my best. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Labour Code of Printing No. 1498. You might as well ask: why an hour or two hours if someone wants to be such a good Santa and give away presents. You had 8 years to introduce such facilities for Polish families. You didn't benefit from this eight-year period. Of course, you cited examples of changes that were introduced in the interests of Polish families during the 8 years of the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL. Of course, I'm giving it here, but that's also an argument against this solution that you're proposing. On the other hand, the Government of Law and Justice has been pursuing a strong family support policy from the outset, a strong family-friendly policy. Of course, this is borne out by the 500+ family programme, but in terms of the support of Minister Rafalska's Ministry, these measures have really been taken much more: support for children in foster care, elimination of the so-called phenomenon. The first day's pay, the introduction of a minimum hourly rate, the increase in the minimum wage - targeted at workers shifts was really very much. It must be borne in mind that these changes do not only burden the state budget, they also burden employers. Here is another question: How will employers approach this proposal, how much has this project been consulted with employers? I suspect it wasn't, but I don't expect enthusiasm from employers, because obviously this hour less is a huge cost for employers. You say that there will be no direct cost for the budget, but the state is the first employer in Poland and these costs will obviously also be for the budget, on the basis of this proposal, which aims to introduce an hourly exemption for parents raising children. We do not see any justification for this solution, especially in the light of all the measures that are being taken to support Polish families, and I have not yet mentioned the programme for parents raising children until the third year of age, i.e. to provide care for these children. Really, with all these actions, this proposal of the Polish People's Party looks like an attempt to bid: we will give even more. In this situation, I see no alternative but to submit a proposal to reject this project at first reading. On behalf of my club, that's what I'm applying for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u272	On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mrs Joanna Augustynowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill assumes that parents of children up to 10 years of age will be able to work an hour less, receiving full pay. The idea seems to be an interesting solution, and most parents would certainly benefit from this privilege, which, of course, is hardly surprising, but we should create a law that makes life easier, does not exclude and responds to the needs of citizens. Does this law take account of these priorities? I'm having a lot of doubts. Many questions arise in connection with the proposed amendment, which unfortunately was not answered either in the bill or in the explanatory memorandum. I therefore understand that these answers will be presented either during the debate or during the committee work if this happens. It is worth considering whether the privilege will not become a cause for discrimination against parents and whether it will cause parents - beneficiaries of such a constructed law to be pushed out of the labour market. Today, a similar legal structure applies to employees with a disability ruling. They are entitled to reduced working time while maintaining full remuneration. Today we can see that these people have trouble finding a job. What does that tell you? From complex, time-consuming methods of documenting working time, the organisation of work itself, the need to ensure continuity of work and many other aspects about which, I have the impression, the designers of this project completely forgot. The report of the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs makes it clear that instruments of the nature of rights for disabled workers, such as reduced working time, are assessed by employers who took part in the study very critically. From their point of view, they should be reduced as much as possible and actually eliminated in order to restore people with disabilities to the labour market. Have these comments been taken into account in the drafting of this law? I have doubts about that, too. The project introduces an absolute ban on the employment of an employee, a parent of a child up to the age of 10, over a period of 7 hours, thus forcing the employer to introduce specific working time schedules. It will not be possible to apply equivalent working time and shift work will lose meaning. How will employers who work in a multi-group system do this? There's no answer to that either. Will they be forced to organize separate teams of employees - parents of children under the age of 10? This is also the case with the principle of equal treatment in employment referred to in, for example, Article. 18 The Labour Code, because in this article, point 2 clearly identifies as discriminatory measures such as those which adversely affect remuneration for work or other conditions of employment among employees. For the same job one employee, working 7 hours, will receive a salary and another will have to work 8 hours. A further question is therefore raised, which is also indicated in the opinion of the Chief Labour Inspector. How would an employer verify whether the other guardian benefits from this privilege or not? What if one of the parents uses e.g. From a school leave? In such a situation, will this working parent also be entitled to a reduced working time? This question is not answered either in the explanatory memorandum or in the bill. According to the Confederation of Leviathan, this solution will have negative consequences for the work organisation process and will have a counterproductive effect. In turn, in the opinion of the Employers' Organisation of the Republic, it is important to take a responsible approach and estimate the costs of introducing the proposed solution for the state budget, the economy, but also for the labour market. If this law enters into force, employers will face the difficult task of reorganising working time in such a way that the orders are executed on time while maintaining budgetary assumptions, with fewer employees. Why did the originator of the bill decide to indicate the age of 10 years of the child as a criterion for using reduced working time? This proposal requires a number of amendments, calculations, but above all consultation with the social partners. It is worth noting that all opinions published so far, especially employers' opinions, but also the chief labour inspector, are very critical in this regard. Of course, we are aware that the idea may arouse great interest among parents who today have difficult access to educational institutions, kindergartens, nursery schools or schools, so we would like to talk about this project and consider what values and criteria to adopt to make life easier for working parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u274	Thank you, Member. I would like to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15, please, Mr Jarosław Porwich. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Labour Code Act, print No 1498. The amendment is to include the following provision in the Labour Code: a worker who is a parent or guardian of a child until he or she has completed his or her 10th year of working time shall not exceed 7 hours. Apart from the shortcomings in the syntax of this sentence, this provision will lead to many complications. According to the project designers, the aim of the project is to introduce a short-term - I think it should be shorter - working time for workers who take care of the child under the age of 10. If both parents or carers are employed, one of the parents or carers of the child will be entitled to a reduced working time. The worker will retain the right to pay for the time he has not worked due to the reduction in his working time. In addition to the possibility of shorter working time for women who feed their children in the first years of their lives, the opinion of the projectors also calls for shorter working time for childcare under the age of 10. Time gained will allow one parent, among others. to drive the kids to school or kindergarten. That's a quote. The intention and intention of introducing a reduced working time for parents working under the age of 10 is certainly justified and socially expected. However, we note that this provision raises doubts about working time, working time and overtime rules. Therefore, we ask what, in a situation of equivalent working time, in which the daily working time is allowed to be extended to 12 hours, the supervision of devices in which the daily working time is allowed to be extended to 16 hours, working in the care of property or protecting persons, where the daily working time is allowed to be extended to 24 hours, continuous work, where the daily working time is also allowed to be extended to 12 hours. The Labour Code already contains a provision containing restrictions on the use of the working-time schemes mentioned by me in the case of workers employed at work who exceed the maximum levels or severity of health-related factors, pregnant workers, child care workers until their 4th year of age, without their consent, their working time shall not exceed 8 hours. Will such restrictions apply to parents under 10 years of age? This is not clear from the provisions of the project and it should therefore be assumed that there will be a number of doubts as to its application. Therefore, Kukiz,15 is in favour of these changes, but the approach to the topic must be comprehensive and not include a number of errors, among others. grammatical errors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u276	Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A good, responsible and effective policy to support parents who raise children All of us are concerned, but it should be a thoughtful policy, and any law on this subject should have a clear objective, cost and consultation. That is why I have a huge problem with the bill presented by your applicant, which, in addition to, of course, care for the family, says one thing: because of the inability of the state institutions to cost pro-family policies, we will charge employers. The project raises many questions. First of all, it's about costs. There are no calculations, no estimates of costs for the budget, the economy and the labour market. Furthermore, applicants claim that the project does not have any financial implications in the state budget and in the budgets of local government units. Reducing working time while maintaining the efficiency that we have now, at the same level, can result in lower production of goods, services, and thus less impact on the state budget due to taxes. The decline in GDP is less revenue to the budget. The state and local authorities also employ, hence the question of whether shorter working hours are less work done and thus less open offices. Or do we need to increase the number of posts for people who work in offices? And if not, maybe there are too many jobs created today? Secondly, authors justify the need to reduce working time problems with access to daycare, kindergartens and too short opening times. But shortening working time means washing hands to such challenges as weak infrastructure, lack of sufficient facilities, daycare, daycare, their short opening hours. Isn't it better to reverse the problem and solve these problems than to reduce working time? Thirdly, the issue of public consultation. In order to create a positive climate on the line, the employer, the employee, must conduct a dialogue. Therefore, my question is whether the project was consulted e.g. within the Social Dialogue Council. Fourth, 10 years. But I would ask for some more detailed empirical confirmation, maybe calculations, why not 6, why not 8, why not 9, why not 11. I'd like your answer, sir. Next, the bill shall enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. This is a rather rapid date of entry into force of the law, meaning that there is no possibility for employers to change their work schedules, to look for replacements, to find new people to work, especially in industry, in production, when there is continuous work or change. I wanted to ask you how the applicants plan to solve this problem. Working efficiency is important, not reducing working time. The proposed amendment may affect the amount of remuneration. How? By failing to raise this salary in the coming months and years. If inflation increases and this is very likely, the value of the money made will be less, because we will be less able to buy, and with reduced working time it will be impossible to increase the payouts. Ladies and gentlemen, high children, family - all of this is very important, but one of the best ways in the world to achieve success in this area is the availability of institutional childcare facilities, i.e. kindergartens, schools, and women's high professional activity. I have a huge doubt that this project will not primarily hit women who will lose their jobs in the eyes of their employer as a reliable worker, as an employee who will be able to devote himself to full-time work hours in the performance of their duties. Therefore, I would very much ask you to answer that question. With full awareness that we all care about the welfare of families, so that Poles can have as many children as they want, this is probably not the way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u278	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, I ask Mr Krystian Jarubas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u279	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not like Polish families so much. You don't want to give them a chance. I am particularly surprised at the PiS, who has already applied for the rejection of this project at the outset. But that's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I would like and have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I usually criticize PiS constructively in my speeches. Today, especially on this side of the room, although it's not very crowded in the room, this criticism of the PiS will be spared. There should be applause here. [[Thank you.]] [[There's no one to hit.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, give it up. But considering you have a little sense of humor, I forgive you. But to the point. Today, Polish People's Party presents a very important project, important not for the political party, but for Poles, Polish families, which we cared about when we were in charge, and we will be in opposition. An hour for the family is an innovative but real project, which, with the good will of the rulers, can bring joy to hundreds of thousands of families in Poland. The assumption is simple: one of the parents finishes work an hour early to be able to pick up a child from kindergarten or school. This is particularly important in large cities, where tens of minutes are spent in afternoon traffic. For many years, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish People's Party has been submitting projects and making changes beneficial for Polish families. Here I will remind you, for example, of the lawn mowers, or 1000 PLN for every mother who does not have the right to benefits, the program of daycare for the gold or the Card of the Big Family. The strategy is simple - helping parents at the most difficult times involved in raising their children. The project we are proposing is a continuation of existing activities. The project is supported by statistics. According to Eurostat, Polish workers are at the forefront of the weekly number of working hours. We work a lot, but not necessarily efficient. This is also supported by sociological studies. The time an employee spends on work doesn't equal his efficiency. OECD data show that labour productivity in Poland is 66.7% the European Union average. Last year's report "Wasting time at work" prepared by Salary.com shows that 89% people openly admit to wasting their time at work. It is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that this number is increasing. In the 2015 study, this was only 69%. Most employees, i.e. 31% , wastes 30 and 60 min per day, 16% - up to 2 hours, 10% - over three hours. Those who lose less than 0.5 hours or not are in a minority - that's only 12%. Interestingly, many economists show that the change in working conditions, consisting of shorter and more flexible working time, generates a triple benefit: social, economic and environmental. So let's add here a golden maxim that works all over the world: If a company can be liked, the employee will be more efficient. Polish companies, of course, tend to like each other more and more. More and more of them guarantee staff packages of medical services, sports passes, as well as flexible working time solutions. The solution proposed by us is in this direction. Time will give you additional motivation. In our opinion, an employee who gets motivation in spending extra time with his family will work more efficiently. Remember that we are not in the PRL, where we had to do 8 hours work, not necessarily doing anything, and the current proverb was: Whether to stand or lie, 500 is due. Today, workers need a good solution that will motivate them to work effectively. During this term of office of the Sejm, we have already submitted a project to reduce working time on Good Friday and Christmas Eve. Despite the positive reactions it was rejected by the PiS, which I regret to state. Today I appeal to the rulers to hide political malice in their pockets and to support our project - an hour for the family, not for us, but for Polish families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a written statement on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle. There were seven members on the list who wanted to ask a question in this part of the sitting. Would any of you like to sign up? If so, please. If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. You are starting with Marek Polak, a club called Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u281	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have one very brief question that I would like to address to the representative of the applicants. I would like to ask whether the amendment you propose will also apply to part-time workers, e.g. for 1/2 or 3/4 jobs, or employees working for e.g. in two different employers, after 1/2 jobs each. I ask because basically neither the justification nor the project say anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u282	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Already now, the law gives mothers the privilege of shortening their working hours by 1 hour for feeding. We are now looking at proposals for further changes in this direction in the Labour Code. They aim to reduce working time for parents of children up to 10 years of age by 1 hour. I have one fundamental question: Do applicants consider that this may cause the situation that employers will not want to hire workers with young children? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u284	Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From an economist's point of view, I realise that people in the economy are a priority, both on the consumer side and on the creative side of creating a workforce. I also believe that a happy man is an effective worker. However, attention should be paid to the fact that the draft law, in which there is a reduction in working time for parents of children under the age of 10, can have grievous effects in the private sector. Unfortunately, I am afraid of the consequences of entering and implementing such a regulation. If you are looking for solutions, as you mentioned here, would it not be better, let us say, to introduce incentives in the form of tax incentives for employers who allow them to work remotely for part of their jobs? [[Applause]] Thanks to these reliefs, the parent will simply be able to spend more time with the child, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as employers will not be threatened, the economy will grow and, of course, everyone will be happy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the parliamentary bill amending the Labour Code Act, it is proposed to introduce a shorter working time, i.e. 7 hours a day for employees who take care of a child under the age of 10. I ask the Member of the applicant's representative to answer the question why he accepted the 10th year limit as a criterion for reducing working time, for example. In England, working parents are taken care of by children under the age of 12 who a parent or guardian must take to school and pick up from school. Could it not be possible in our country to introduce this model of reduced working time and take care of children under 12 years of age? Not everyone has the opportunity to use Grandma and Grandpa's institutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will ask this question from the perspective of a parent who sometimes finds time to take a child to kindergarten, to school, sometimes finds time to pick up children as well. We are dealing with an extremely important and significant problem of children, which are often pulled out of bed at hours in the winter. 5:00 a.m. so the parent can take the baby to kindergarten before work. We have an amazing problem with classrooms that break sometimes in stitches at hours. 16 a.m. 17, which must solve local governments as bodies running schools, deciding what to do with these children. This also causes costs. Public authority must face such challenges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project offers an opportunity and represents the first step towards solving the problem, unfortunately, which has not yet been taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u290	Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the very bad demographic situation and the long working time make such laws. Pro-family policy is needed. The platform introduced annual paid holidays, which turned out to be a great solution and very much needed. So this is the next step, I would say: this is a golden hour for children. Imagine a concrete situation: school reform, teaching two - sometimes three shifts. This hour, if it's flexible time... And that's the question to the applicant: Would it be possible for the mother to e.g. Did she take that hour this morning, this afternoon or even noon? In many companies there is a lunch. Lunch lasts half an hour, and if we add an hour to that, the mother can pick up the baby or take the baby to school for a second shift. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thus, this solution may prove to be simply salvific. I therefore believe that the draft law must be discussed absolutely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u292	And last question - Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know what's going on here, but there's a fashion in this parliament for spending other people's money, mostly from the taxpayer's pocket. The leader is, of course, Law and Justice, the Platform has been trying to make up for some distance recently and it turns out that PSL does not want to fall behind, so it proposes solutions that directly hit entrepreneurs, because they will pay for it. I wonder if you've counted the situation of a 50-person company where most of them are women and 20%, 50% These women have a child up to the age of 10. These are the four jobs the owner of this company has to pay for. How will he be able to compete with a company where there are no parents who have children of this age? Did anybody even count it? Here's the situation: I thought we had two players in the populism race - the PiS and the Platform. At the moment, PSL quietly wants to join these players. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A modern one cannot be drawn into this bidding for such populist activities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u294	Thank you very much. I will ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed for answers to questions - both those and previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions will be answered by the applicant, because the questions were addressed to him, but I will briefly refer to the draft law amending the Labour Code Act. There is no government position on the project yet, the government position is being prepared by our resort, but our resort will propose a negative opinion on this project for a simple reason, because this project is a weak project, it is not a project on which we can debate. Mr President, we have a good family policy right now and it's a shame to just ruin it and this project is ruining it. And that's why the Law and Justice Club applied to reject the project at first reading, because it has the courage to say it directly: this is not a good project that will introduce good solutions. In the last year and a half, Law and Justice have done a great deal about family policy, but so have the predecessors. We have a good family policy. We have very good resources at the moment for family policy, the 500+ family programme, over 3% GDP is spent on Polish families, this is very big support. However, this project will not support families, we need to look for other solutions that make it easier for parents to work. These solutions are in the code, others will also be prepared, for example on flexible working time issues, shortening working time. It's all in the Labour Code right now. The extension, the annual parental leave - these solutions work and in this respect let us look for better solutions, not the solution you have proposed, which does not solve the problems you have mentioned here. Automatically shortening working time by an hour does not solve the problem of taking your child to school in the morning or picking him up from school. It doesn't solve this problem, you have to look for other solutions. In addition, we are introducing more measures in the small children care programme, and the "Milch+" programme will now, so to speak, be stronger when it comes to childcare for young children. Other solutions will be prepared within the framework of the family policy that the Law and Justice are planning, but this project will certainly not be resolved. Therefore, after analysing this project, which is short, concerns one article, our resort recommends a negative opinion about it. Therefore, on behalf of our department, I cannot support this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u296	It is true, Minister, that the questions are not addressed to you because the government is not the applicant, and therefore I invite the applicant's representative to address the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u297	Here's what I'm gonna say. The project is short and may contain errors. The first mistake, and here I admit it, that's the deadline. the entry into force of the Act. It's to be corrected. Other errors, typos or grammar errors are also to be corrected, and I wouldn't make a problem of that, although it should be well written. I'm just surprised at the attitude of this ruling party and your position, because you're always talking about money, about spending money, about money, and that there's already a problem solved. We can't buy a family with money, we can't buy family happiness. Of course, money is needed, but even in the song it is that money does not give happiness. So, Minister, it's not like that, although you think that if you give 500 zlotys, 500 plus, then all moms are gonna quit their jobs and it's gonna be calm, the problem will be solved. This problem won't be solved because some women are working and they're gonna have to work. And it scares me when I see these moms dragging kids sometimes very late at night, because they don't even know which way to go, so they're tired after a day's work. This is one of the elements of this family-friendly policy. And stop with the eight years, too. A lot was done at that time. And you're also going with 500+, they didn't give it to the first child. Do you have to give it to me? You gotta give it to me. But why didn't you? We can talk about it, too. I didn't talk about it today. Many solutions, such as those with a plus, have been introduced in the previous term, such as the nursery law, the "Milch" programme, etc. You add a plus and you say, we did. Let's not outrun ourselves here in who did more for the Polish family. New solutions need to be introduced. Polish citizens have been working here longer than in Europe, which is why they have been working here. There is this emigration abroad, which causes us to run out of hands at the moment. And if we don't create good conditions for this, show people... Employers aren't so bad either. Some employers are very supportive of this. Of course, there is a question of improving efficiency, productivity, better organisation in the workplace. As far as the government is concerned, I would be happy to sign what the Member has proposed to give relief to employers so that they can reduce working time for those willing to take care of the child by this hour. Next, this law does not impose an obligation that every parent or babysitter must work 7 hours, giving them the opportunity to benefit from it. We don't really know how many parents can benefit from this, and certainly they won't all go away. Minister, you've always talked about your family very warmly and very much, so to speak, you've been pursuing family matters. That's the way out. outside of these financial matters. Of course, there's nothing without money, but there's got to be a stake in everyone here. Any pro-family solution, please remember, caused controversy and great outrage, opposition, etc. But at the time of introduction it turned out that these were good solutions, the solutions needed, they worked out. When 500+ was introduced, everyone also said: and you don't know why, for what. We supported this solution as the Polish People's Party because we thought it was right. And if that's possible, we'll also introduce it to the first child, because that's the need. That's the need. We don't want to outrun ourselves here, but we're gonna bring it in because they're good solutions. Let's find the right solutions. Let's discuss it. Has the project been consulted? No. It's not a government project, it's a parliamentary project. There will be time for work in committee and I think that all these matters can be resolved in committee of course. It's not that it's gonna be a collusion, it's gonna be a con. This is about the part-time job, whether or not if someone's part-time, they're gonna use it too. Well, he's not gonna use it, 'cause it's about him having an hour more, so at least I think he's gonna take care of the baby. Of course, a few more precise entries need to be introduced here, but I think that if we sit in committee and with professionals and with people who will benefit from this, we will be able to give a good solution in this direction - let's call it a directional proposal - to give an hour to the family, to give an hour for one of the parents to be able to form this family for an hour longer. Because it is very often the case that later we have various pathologies, various family problems with children, as parents do not have time to take an interest in the child. Why is it until the 10th year? How about 12:00 or 9:00? Let's discuss this. Let the sociologists, the psychologists, speak up when the child is to be taken care of. Everyone's gonna have a different opinion here. Why one hour, not two hours? That's because you have to start somewhere. One of my moms told me, in one of the radio debates, and I'd like them to have four hours of me. Oh, come on, let's not overreact. However, we must start somewhere, so, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to reflect and I ask you to consider the vote tomorrow, because this is an important, very important issue. This subject cannot be rejected at the first reading stage without further reflection. We're meeting with employee problems. From year to year, there are more problems with employees. What's gonna be a few, a dozen years? We're just gonna keep the migrants? Let's think about it. Let's create these conditions, invest in family, invest in the future, invest in childhood. I think this project meets these expectations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u298	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The family is the basis for our society and is its greatest value. Care for her, rooted for generations, for many of us, is a priority and a driving factor for our actions. I have no doubt that the state, realizing this and understanding the value of the family, should support it in every way. However, when I read this bill, I have doubts about what actually led its applicants. Was this a concern for Polish families where parents share time and agree to work with their children? Or is this project purely political and its task is to bring about further divisions in our society? Projectors propose a mandatory reduction of working time to 7 hours a day for children up to 10 years of age, while maintaining their current salary. Referring to research showing the effectiveness of those who are happy with family life, it says that it is a solution that meets the expectations of their parents. In my opinion, this conclusion is too far gone. Reconciling family life with work is a major challenge and requires a great deal of sacrifice from parents. However, this does not mean that a forced reduction in their working time will lead to an increase in the satisfaction of having children, all the more so as the introduction of such a solution could harm the market position of parents. The proposal does not take into account the views of employers who may not very well accept the provisions contained therein. This is demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that he is a member of the United States of America. a crushing opinion issued by the Polish Employers' Organization for this amendment, according to which the proposed solutions, despite the assurances of the originators, will have financial implications for the state budget. Nor is it possible to ignore the discriminatory nature of this project. Discrimination, because this is how people who do not have children can feel, and for longer working time they will be paid equal to the remuneration of privileged persons according to the proposed regulations. In addition, the 7-hour working time of parents can result in an increase in the number of duties of persons without children. Knowing the reality, I know there are things that just have to be done. I am convinced that such situations will not serve to build a positive atmosphere in employment places, and especially in the efficiency of workers. As I mentioned at the beginning, family is one of our highest values. However, I have doubts, in my opinion, as to whether the bill under discussion today can be regarded as a family-friendly act or merely a controversial act. The Free and Solidarnia Circle does not agree with the arguments of the applicants for this amendment and will vote against it at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u300	During the discussion, a request was made to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the municipal government law and some other laws (print No 1500). I ask Mr Mark Owl to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members and Members of the Posel Club Modern I have the honour to present to the High House a bill amending the law on local government, district government and local government. The citizens' initiative gives residents of municipalities, powiats and local districts an important tool to participate in the daily life of our local and regional communities. Although there are currently no legal obstacles to this issue being regulated in the statutes of individual local government units, unfortunately, local authorities do not take advantage of this possibility very often. In accordance with the rules in force, individuals may decide in a general vote, e.g. in elections or in referendums, or through the authorities of the commune, district or voivodeship, however, they do not have the right to draw up and submit draft resolutions directly and take part in the resolution process. Thanks to the citizens' initiative of resolution, residents of municipalities, powiats and voivodships will gain another, this time a direct instrument of influencing the activity of local authorities, to resolve the important problems of local communities. From the study of the Association 61, which conducted a survey in local governments, published on the portal MamPrawoWieć.pl, it follows that the citizens' resolution initiative is implemented in more than 300 local governments, but where it is implemented, it brings excellent results. Citizens' initiatives concerned civil budgets, the construction of various types of monuments, the implementation of municipal tasks, the modernisation of roads, senior cards or packages of discounts for seniors and many other local initiatives. Where the citizens' legislative initiative is being taken, the participation of residents has increased significantly, who can decide not only on the day of the election but also during the entire term of office. Therefore, it is worth introducing mandatory citizens' initiative of resolution into the law on local government, district government and local government. The second reason for preparing and accepting, I hope, this law is our meeting with the residents. They often stress that they do not have an impact on initiatives taken in their local governments, that their impact actually ends on election day. These initiatives are particularly important for all urban movements which are not represented in municipalities, powiats or voivodships. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present a few detailed provisions of this law in order to provide information on what this amendment of our law is actually about. We're adding a split. 4a. This is a change in the Local Government Act. In this chapter, which is titled "The People's Legislative Initiative," the whole procedure - from Article - is described in detail. 42a to 42e - preparation of this legal path, implementation, notification of this initiative and representation also during the debate or process of this initiative in municipal councils. For individual municipalities, we were looking for a solution that would be universal. I must tell you that where there is a citizens' initiative today, we have extremely different cases. For example, in Toruń, who had already introduced such an initiative in 1991, it was stated in the statutes that it was enough to collect 150 signatures, but we also have 6,000, 4,000. And 15,000, so sometimes it's just extremely screwed up. It is therefore difficult, suggesting this number of signatures, to find a solution that would be fully acceptable. I think this will also be the subject of our work in the parliamentary committees, but according to our proposal in the municipalities up to 5 thousand. 100 people with electoral rights should be signed under this initiative in municipalities up to 20,000. - 200 inhabitants, in municipalities over 20,000. - 300 inhabitants. In the next chapter, which amends the District Government Act, we propose that this number of signatures under the resolution initiative be 500 people. The same applies to cities on the rights of the county. Finally, in the case of voivodships and regional capitals, i.e. 18 cities that have such status, we propose that this number of signatures under such an initiative should be 1 000. As I said, if it arouses emotions, I firmly believe that in the course of further work in the parliamentary committees there will be a solution that will be satisfactory for everyone here. On behalf of the applicants, I want to declare full openness. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed solutions do not generate any additional costs, it is worth noting that they do not restrict the competence of the councils of municipalities, powiats or seymists of voivodships, which will continue to decide whether the proposed initiative deserves to be adopted and implemented. In fact, this extends the range of entities that are entitled to submit draft resolutions to the relevant bodies. I hope that this bill, which enhances citizens' rights, will gain acceptance of all the clubs and parliamentary circles represented in the Sejm, as I ask of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u302	Thank you for presenting the bill. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u303	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Director! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club against the 1500 print project. The aim of the draft law on amending the law on local government and certain other laws according to its justification is to introduce into the Polish legal system the possibility for residents of the commune, district or voivodship of a resolution initiative. Here, it should be pointed out immediately that it is now possible to grant a resolution initiative to the inhabitants of a given local authority, as the applicant of the project draws attention to. The introduction of such solutions is permitted under the current regulations of local government laws in the statutes of the commune, district or voivodship. The possibility to include in the statutes a local government unit of regulations concerning the citizens' legislative initiative confirmed the Supreme Administrative Court in Warsaw by a judgment of 21 November 2013. Here is the short operative part of this judgment: the power to submit draft resolutions to the authorities is undoubtedly linked to the determination of the working mode of the council, which is a matter, as is clear from the article. 22 of the Municipal Government Act, belongs to the statutory matter. The right to adopt a resolution initiative for a group of residents should be linked to the subjective aspect of the definition of local government in the article. 1. It is argued here that the provision of citizens with a resolution initiative should be an important instrument of civic activity of the inhabitants giving them the opportunity to participate more in the activities for the benefit of the municipality. There is no doubt, however, that the Polish legislature allows the residents of the local government to be equipped with the possibility to submit draft resolutions and put them to the vote. There is therefore no need to settle the matter by law, as this can be regulated in the statutes of a self-government unit. In addition, the provisions of the Statute relating to the citizens' legislative initiative are often less formalised. the nature to be exercised by residents wishing to exercise such power in so far as it provides for the addition of a special chapter on the resolution initiative and is therefore beneficial to the parties concerned. Here you can give an example of the statute of Lubuskie voivodship, which only specifies who can take the legislative initiative, the conditions to be fulfilled by the draft resolution, and the requirement for applicants to indicate their representative. As a result, it could happen if the solutions proposed in the draft law came into force that the verified, readable and simple statutory provisions would be replaced by a much more extensive, less friendly procedure. There are no transitional provisions in the draft law which would allow the application of the existing statutory provisions until the adoption of new ones. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] In conclusion, given that it is possible to grant citizens a legislative initiative in the Statute, an act of local law, whose essential feature is flexibility to adapt the rules which standardise this matter to the local conditions, the draft submitted is negative. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] In your hands, Marshal, I'm filing a motion to reject him. [[But you don't have a marshal, you're a marshal.]] So I'm putting a marshal in your hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the parliamentary draft law amending the Municipal Government Act and some other laws, print No 1500. This project extends the catalogue of tasks belonging to the exclusive competence of the municipalities, powiats, voivodships, as regards the consideration of legislative initiatives of residents of the commune, district and voivodship. The intention is to replace the statutory regulation only with a potential and, as you can see, the often used possibility of the citizens' legislative initiative based on the statutory provisions of the local government units concerned. The project concerning laws on municipal self-government, district self-government, about voivodship self-government introduces twin chapters under the name of the initiative on the resolution of inhabitants - respectively - the commune, district and voivodship. They shall contain the requirements for notification of the resolution initiative and the rules for dealing with the draft resolution so notified. The subject of the resolution initiative is not currently part of the catalogue of key issues for the functioning of the local government in Poland, but valuablely, following the law of 24 June 1999 on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens, it aims to extend the scope of civic participation in the functioning of local government units. The registrations in the project of a group of residents of the commune, district, voivodship can take place with the initiative of the editorial committee. It is declared that this group of residents is the subject of this new formula of influencing the activities of the local public authority. However, it should be noted that the role of residents in implementing the resolution initiative in this submission will be limited to signing only the draft resolution in the number of 100 to 1000, depending on the size of the municipality or the type of local government unit. Further provisions are clearly the actual subject of the resolution initiative made by the Committees of the initiative of between 3 and 10 people, which represents about 1/100 of the required thresholds for support for the draft resolution. Only one member of the committee is involved in the process of the project by the board of local government units. In view of the hope of encouraging civic activity, the proposed new formula restricting the role of a group of residents in implementing the resolution initiative to signatures supporting the draft resolution seems too shallow. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform's subjectivity of the population group should be reflected more fully in the project, as the essence of the resolution initiative is the solution to the problem, except that the initiation of action from the authorities of the local government unit is shifted to citizens, members of the local government community. In our view, it is worth accepting the solution that the population group operates through the resolution initiative committee. It is not necessary to specify the size of this group, as it has a role to support the initiative as outlined in the draft. It is worth considering that the draft resolution and the process of adopting it include real participatory formulas, e.g. the requirement to hold an open meeting to present the draft on which the resolution initiative committee is attached and to have a public hearing organised by the chairman of the board in the course of the work on the draft. It should be noted that the draft law also contains controversial provisions on criminal sanctions - a sentence of imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years - for interfering with the implementation of the legislative initiative or, by abuse of the relationship of dependence, affecting its execution, which seems unnecessary. In conclusion, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club sees the obvious advantages of the proposal, which extends the scope of civic participation and creates an additional instrument for influencing the functioning of the local government. For this reason, he has the support of our club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskoła will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u307	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the proposal for a resolution initiative at three levels of our local government. The position of the club regarding the amendment of the law will be strongly connected mainly with the position of marshal offices. The Kukiz Club15, like most marshal offices in Poland, supports these changes, especially in terms of their direction. Of course, there are technical issues that are underdeveloped by applicants. Let me draw attention to these technical issues, but of course the idea is absolutely right. Why? Because it is right to introduce into the Polish legal order such an instrument, which will actually allow to solve finally the resolution problem, the initiative of resolution of residents of municipalities or powiats, or voivodships. Of course, there is no doubt that such statutory provisions were, but on the one hand they were not always implemented, on the other hand they were differentiated, and on the other hand, many municipalities simply did not decide to do so. That's why this system solution certainly makes sense. This is one of the few projects that really makes sense and which we should all be supporting here, regardless of which party reported it. [[Applause]] [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Bravo!]] This is a constructive opposition. This is a constructive club. Thus, the introduction of clear, clear, level playing field for all actors is, of course, justified here. Unfortunately, there are also specific issues that absolutely need to be refined. I have no doubt - Mr President, my previous speaker also pointed out that this legal sanction, which concerns... I quote: Who, by violence, threat of unlawful or deception, interferes with the implementation of a resolution initiative by the inhabitants of the voivodship respectively, etc., is punishable by imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years. Now let's get this together with an art. 244 The Penal Code, which is an article that concerns the consequences of violence against the administration, against official bodies, e.g. Parliamentary. This punishment is maximum of 3 years. Of course, the sanction itself is very positive, because it has to be. There will certainly be people who will interfere with the implementation of such an initiative, but from a technical point of view this initiative would not be better protected than in the case of pressure or unlawful threat, for example. to the minister, to the parliamentary club, to the parliamentarian or to the president of the city, I do not know anything, to e.g. CBA officers or police officers. So here, however, this protection is too far-reaching, but of course it is correct that it exists. Of course, despite this, I would say that the lack of consistency of the project is as positive as possible. I would also like to draw attention to one aspect which I think the applicants have not noticed. I would like to ask, because I did not see what happened to the cities of Grodzki, i.e. the districts of Grodz, according to which system we will count this initiative, because this is an important factor for us to predict, that many cities are Grodzki districts and which system will be used in their case. If we answer in this project and e.g. We're gonna make that amendment, and that's gonna be clear. Then we have a complete, clear situation, that when it comes to the district of Grodzki, which is the city of Częstochowa, it applies according to the system e.g. the county, not the commune. Thank you very much. Of course, the Kukiz Club will support this bill, but we'll help you because you've done some minor things, fellas. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But will you help?]] But we're gonna help, even modern. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: But will the club support it in its entirety?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u308	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Modern Club, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's kind of weird talking to an empty room, but that's okay. The residents and residents have an inalienable right to the city in which they live or to the village in which they live. It is the right to co-decision on the most important matters of the city or village and the right to co-decision on matters concerning us, i.e. residents and residents. Our cities or villages are for us and are the environment of our lives, so power and politics should serve us, residents and residents. Democracy in local governments is not only an election every four years, but really a continuous participation of residents and residents in real decision making in their town or in their city. But in order for this local democracy to work well, it is necessary to develop and implement the necessary legal tools such as local referendums, citizens' and citizens' resolution initiatives, panels and civil courts, public consultation, participatory budget and many, many others. The possibility of involving residents in the resolution process of a council or a seymium promotes the involvement of residents in the activities carried out by the local government, but also gives them the opportunity to solve their problems and meet the needs by which residents really improve their quality of life, and what is very important: it also serves to activate civic residents and residents, which consequently also serves the development and empowerment of this local government, as well as the formation of civil society in general. Today, the Modern proposes to give Poles and Poles the opportunity to co-decide on the local government in which they live, precisely through the initiative of the resolution of the citizens. Of course, according to current legislation, residents and residents of local government units make decisions by taking part in elections and then by means of the authorities of the commune, district or local government. The introduction of the citizens' right of a resolution initiative will enable Poles and Poles to submit draft resolutions, as well as participate in the work of the municipal council on this project. Thus, through the citizens' initiative, both residents and residents will gain an additional instrument to influence the activities of local authorities. Today, of course, the law does not prohibit the introduction of such a legislative initiative by local government units, so there is no legal contraindications to the regulation of the initiative of local residents in the statutes of local government units. Therefore, some local authorities already have such an instrument. However, most have not introduced this tool or introduced it in such a way that in practice it is not used because of the too high number of residents required to collect signatures or some kind of formal tightening. That is why regulation is very important in this regard. Such a resolution initiative does not jeopardise the independence of the local government, and even strengthens the position of citizens and citizens who actually constitute the local government. We are very pleased that our project is supported by the Civic Platform and Kukiz15. I don't understand... [[Voices from the room: I PSL.]] PSL will also support it in a moment, which I am very happy about. ...then why the Law and Justice, which all the time speaks of sovereign, talks about dialogue with the sovereign, today makes a request to reject this project at first reading. I think it's outrageous. And it's also outrageous that no one in Law and Justice is listening to me right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The marshal listens.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u310	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on local government and some other laws, print No 1500. Self-government is one of the last independent of the central power of Polish democracy. For 27 years he developed, had more and more competences that were transferred as close as possible to the citizen. Unfortunately, the current government has passed a number of laws that deprive local governments of their real impact on the issues that concern them. We hear there's a ban on the running of proven hosts, the shortening of their term of office, the taking of funds. Not to mention the liquidation of institutions, such as the independent prosecutor's office, independent courts or the Constitutional Tribunal at present. There is a significant difference in understanding both the functions of the state and the functioning of local governments. The Polish People's Party has always sought to develop self-government, so that decisions are taken at the lowest administrative level according to the constitutional principle of subsidiarity, so that local authorities are close to people. Unfortunately, we now have a typical example of centralization of the state and management by voivodships, ministers or incompetent representatives. Maybe that's why we're meeting our Parliamentary Group. The defence of Polish Self-government is very popular among local authorities and Members, where everyone can express their views and we try to develop solutions that serve mostly residents. But I'm going to move on to the project we're currently working on. It introduces the possibility for residents of the commune, district and voivodship to carry out a resolution initiative. The inhabitants gain a direct instrument to influence the activities of local authorities. It should be noted that some local authorities have already introduced this option in their statutes, but I consider it reasonable to introduce this into the law, which leaves no doubt about the implementation of the resolution initiative by citizens. The opinions of voivodship authorities on the project are different. They most often express a positive opinion. It should be noted that local authorities in their positions point to certain shortcomings and propose amendments to the Act to encourage local communities and their solutions. It is clear that local authorities are open to these initiatives. All you have to do is talk about them, have a dialogue, not impose ready-made solutions. The new institution of the resolution initiative will have a positive impact on citizens' interest in matters that concern them. It will also lead to the development of civil society, which clearly articulates its needs and now gets the right tools for doing so. Further work on the draft in the relevant committee should consider, together with the representatives of the local authorities, the criteria for the number of signatures required to submit a draft citizens' resolution. However, the indication in the project of the number of inhabitants of the current size may lead to a distortion of the civil system. In addition, the project contains minor, obvious inaccuracies, such as the local self-government symposium - of course, the designers were talking about the voivodship sejmik - which can be easily repaired during further work. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is therefore in favour of further work on the parliamentary bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus remembered something else. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: 40 seconds, right?]] 40 seconds to use. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u313	I'll use those 40 seconds, Marshal. One more point, because in Toruń, in Toruń, the residents have the opportunity to... I think this is the only town... [[First.]] ...yes, which has the possibility to submit such a resolution initiative with only 150 signatures. So I would like us in committee - if the PiS gives us the opportunity - to work on another regulation so that it does not suddenly turn out that Toruń has to collect several times more. I say this on behalf of the inhabitants of Torun. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u314	Thank you very much. Four Members joined the questions. [[Another one, Mr Lassota.]] Okay, five Members. I'm setting a question time for one minute. I'm closing the list of questions. The first question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński from the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u315	Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna ask my party buddy not to bother you right now because I want to turn to your marshal to begin with. [[I'm sorry.]] You're the only one in power right now, the ruling party in the courtroom. As a result of this misfortune that you are questioning this project, there is at least one good circumstance - an excellent proof that you are able to be a total authority which says no, because no. Thank you for that. [[Applause]] Unless Mr. Marshal influences your club and you withdraw this terrible objection, in fact unworthy, because it's harder to have a more uncontroversial project, really hard. Mr. Marshal, think about it. [[Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Mr Marshal!]] I basically ran out of time, but I guess that was the most important thing to say. Dear colleagues from Modern, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want you to think about this pennalization because she's an exaggeration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u316	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The citizens' resolution initiative in the current legislation is so generally already in place. This is directly due to the Municipal Government Act. Besides, we have citizens' budgets and social funds. I would also like to remind you that in the draft resolutions of the municipal council concerning investments or expenditure, there must be an indication of the source of funding. This is extremely important. But I think that this law will clarify all of this, and the budgetary implications of the proposed changes can be far-reaching. I wanted to ask the Members of the applicant whether they consulted the local authorities on this project. I don't deny it. This bill isn't bad, but it needs to be clarified, and it's got to be every one of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Citizens' initiative...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u318	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u319	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u320	Now you are asking Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The project can definitely be seen as a very good and useful building of civil attitudes and involvement in the functioning of the local government. I have one question. What if the council of the municipality or district or the sejm of the voivodship rejects a resolution prepared by the committee? Will it be like a national referendum whose results are not binding on the Sejm? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u322	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Messengers and Members of Law and Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! It is sad that the Law and Justice hate self-government so much, in any form that this self-government would function. Today we have a vivid example of the fact that simply the fact that self-government, people can decide their own fate, is simply unthinkable in the state of totalitarian Law and Justice. Question for the rapporteur. You said that there were opportunities for some local governments to open themselves to this, so they allowed the possibility of having a resolution initiative. Is there any statistical data on how small it actually works, that you need to take the initiative to do it in a mandatory form? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u324	Thank you. The last question is asked by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! While the current state of law already allows for a citizens' initiative to adopt a resolution, it is true, however, that the provision of the law will also, on several occasions, encourage the inhabitants to actively use such solutions. On the other hand, there is one thing that I think is worth considering. We are talking about the fact that we want to build civil society, especially this is important at this time when the Government of Law and Justice, which governs Poland, centralizes everything that is possible, and is, of course, opposed to any citizens' initiatives being able to function. Wouldn't it be worth thinking about a solution that would also give social organisations such a right? Of course, this would have to be contained in various types of scope, etc., but this would have led to the fact that the inhabitants would also be organized. [[♪ The bell ♪]] creating organisations, which is important Especially in this centralist country, which PiS is preparing for us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u326	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of members of the vote. Now I will ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Sebastian Chwałk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I can only present the position of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration at the moment. The government's position is being examined, the legislative process is underway and has not yet been adopted. You can say that: there are really nice, very good comments here - the system works great, all local authorities say they want this change. So if they want and can, it doesn't prevent them from introducing it into their statutes and proceeding. I do not see any position in this draft organisation represented in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. There are no positions, so we don't really know whether these local governments expect such a change or not. You say that we own the local government, and what is this project that imposes certain solutions on local governments without leaving them the freedom they have at the moment? I don't understand this situation. There is also a lack of transitional provisions in this regulation, what to do in the situation before new solutions are adopted, what with these issues that are ongoing at this point, are being followed by resolutions. This is an unnecessary overregulation in our view, we do not see the need to burden the self-government with an obligation which at the moment can carry out voluntarily. If the government wants, then maybe - as I see it, everyone wants to, so they can. We don't see the need for overregulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa will now take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the representatives of the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party, Kukiz,15 and Modern Clubs for their support. As Mr Wilczyński has already said, and this is also my view, there was one thing in the whole political debate: the position of law and justice. The speeches of four parliamentary clubs were pro-Citizen speeches, [[Applause]] Whereas the speech of a representative currently unrepresented by almost no one in the Club of Law and Justice was simply a handing over to us all, but above all to the inhabitants, a political decision. Honestly, Minister, it would be better if you didn't speak... [[Oh...]] ...because it's a shame [[Applause]] have such a minister responsible for the local government. This is a man who has no idea what's going on in local governments. You must remember - local government is a community of citizens...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u330	Mr President, don't yell because we hear perfectly. [[You're the one screaming, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u331	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u332	Thank you very much. [[Hold on to those remarks, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u333	But I'm the one with the speech, and I understand that the temperament of the voice is... It's a community, it's a community of residents. It's the people who have the right to decide. I did not say in my speech that all local governments support this. How was I supposed to check the citizens' initiative? At meetings, the Minister probably doesn't participate, but in meetings with residents, in meetings with our voters, we ask what the problems are, whether they affect what they want to do. If we're meeting with city movements, people say, but we don't have a representation on the city council today, so how do we report our project? We'd like to company it. This is a normal thing: citizens, whether they are organized or in NGOs, as Mr Lassota asked... of course, citizens organized within some association can have their initiative and can simply support and build this initiative through public support. The question was whether the council of the municipality could reject it. Of course it can - it must lead to an evaluation, there must be a budget, on this side there is no possibility as if to guarantee that if something is submitted to the Council, it must be adopted. But I have a good answer for you: every second project submitted as part of the citizens' initiative in over 300 Polish local governments is adopted by the councils of municipalities or district councils. This shows that this is a 50 percent efficiency. How effective are we when we report pro-government initiatives in this Parliament? None of them went through, the PiS rejected them all. If we compare this to every other project prepared by the residents and adopted, it is a path that shows very clearly that it should be followed, that it is a good direction to increase the interest of the inhabitants in our local affairs. If they feel that they are important, that their initiatives can be adopted, that they can be implemented later, then we will build a real civil society. I will tell you: today, the best functioning from this point of view, although informally, is the Sołecki fund. It is not implemented in every municipality either, but it has been introduced. There, in fact, local residents can choose the tasks that are being carried out through the Soviet Council or at rural meetings. This is an element in which this social participation is just greater, which makes it bigger. This is a kind of dissemination, without barriers, without narrowing it down to only that part of the budget, which is kind of obligatoryly transferred to the Sołecki fund. I'm surprised, really, that this position has fallen, but, well, that's just life. I must tell you that, indeed, with regard to all these amendments that have been tabled here, we are open to them. I can already withdraw from this sanction which is introduced - it will, of course, be the smallest possible one, so if there is a mistake here, it will be changed if we have the opportunity at all. We haven't forgotten the cities on county rights. It is in the resolution initiative of the residents of the county in a very clear way written in the article. 42a that this concerns the right to elect councillors to the county council and city council on the rights of the county, so the question that Mr Jaskoła asked about is, of course, precisely introduced here and there will be no problem to accept it. I am, of course, also open to work to improve this project to some extent. The question was whether there was a consultation in local governments, and I answered: this is a citizens' initiative, this is an initiative that is reported by the inhabitants. I've summoned two elements. The first one is research, good. I invite you all to read the Association report 61. MamPrawoWiedzieć.pl - there it is published, in which municipalities it functions, what is the position of individual local authorities in this matter. This is one source from which we used the information we used to see what tasks were carried out, what is the scale of the impact of this project. And the second element is direct meetings. I have no doubt that if we were given the opportunity to work in committees on this project, no one from the local government will question this solution. That's what I'm calm about. If you want to check, I suggest you file a motion for rejection at second reading, and before that, take a look at the opinions of the local government. No risk, maybe in two weeks this project will come back, and you'll see for yourself whether the support for this project is or not. I know that the Minister, like PiS, would like to know better than everyone, but unfortunately in the case of local governments he is a guy who has little knowledge, and, frankly, it is too late to learn. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u334	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act (Print No 1509). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Patrick Jaki to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u335	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! Today we will be discussing a very serious problem, namely the problem of the treatment of animals, which in fact corresponds to fundamental principles, the issue of humanity. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! In recent years we have heard of even scandalous cases of beastly treatment of animals. We had two cases when the dog was buried alive, we had a case where the dog was tied to the radiator, and he was not given food to kill the dog in a beastly way. We have also dealt with similar beastly cases of animal treatment. And what was the worst in all of this was the helplessness of the state and law enforcement in, I would say, firmly deal with this kind of behaviour. Most often, penalties for such phenomena have been suspended, or it has been an extremely low level of punishment, completely disproportionate to the act committed and to the extent of the depravity of the persons who committed the act. This kind of state position, as some have said, actually encouraged similar crimes - this helplessness, this abdication of the state with regard to the basic functions of taking care of the weaker. An additional element was that also monitoring these phenomena, the High Sejm, left much to be desired. Most often, this function was taken over by third sector organisations that could not always count on State aid. And it is from this type of diagnosis, the High Sejm, that this initiative - an initiative to make sure that you do not desert from this area of your activity. In view of the above, the High Sejm, this bill - a draft law, the most important elements of which are the following. First of all, increase... [[The bustle, the fun in the room.]] I hope this project isn't funny. ...enhanced punishment for killing animals and bullying animals from 2 to 3 years of imprisonment. In the event of particular cruelty, we will be able to talk about increasing the penalties from 3 to 5 years imprisonment. We are convinced that this position of the legislator will not remain unanswered in the doctrine or case law of the courts and will cause, when there are more such behaviors, that people who treat animals in a beastly way will simply go to prison. In addition, we propose, High Sejm, to correct several areas which in our assessment require this, among others. We want to point out a clear ban on having a certain category of animals in the case of people who have previously abused animals. In addition, we offer the High Sejm to ban people who have had such cases in their lives, i.e. bullying animals, working with animals. It seems quite logical because a person who cannot treat an animal in a humane way in his private life is also clearly not fit to work with animals every day. It's obvious to us, that's why we want to write it down in the bill. Finally, High Sejm, the element I was talking about, i.e. such a bow towards the organisation of the third sector, i.e. NGOs, which have often played a role, have played a role as a state in such evaluation of the system, i.e. such control of how animals are treated in practice in different places of Poland. We want to say that, as a government, we very much appreciate this work that NGOs are doing, and we are fully aware that NGOs could do more of this work if you could create convenient conditions for them. In view of the above, we propose to introduce into the Act a provision that penalties for animal abuse should not be optional, and in practice very rarely decided, but that they should be mandatory, i.e. in each case, a settlement, in addition to 1 000. PLN up to the amount of 100,000. zł. This, the High Sejm, will cause, as we count annually, even tens of millions of zlotys to be added to NGOs, and these funds will be used to monitor whether animals are being treated in a humane way, to catch cases that should be dealt with by the State. In our view, this is a good proposal for a model of cooperation, partnership, we could say, public-private, between the state and NGOs, to the extent that we all care about, i.e.. the protection and humanitarian treatment of animals. These are the most important elements of this project. I ask the High Sejm to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u336	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Agata Borowiec will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u337	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Law of 21 August 1997 on the protection of animals and the related provisions contained in the current Penal Code. This project responds to the unchanged situation of the protection of animal rights for several years. According to data from the Ministry of Justice, for more than 15 years there has been an increase in the number of offences affecting animal health and life, which is worse, an increasing number of such offences committed in a qualified form each year, i.e. with special cruelty. Currently, every year there is a valid conviction of about 600 perpetrators who kill animals, abuse animals, and persons who violate the rules applicable to the slaughter of animals. It should also be pointed out that the revision of the existing rules is supported by the fact that the limits of criminal liability for the killing of animals and the abuse of animals differ significantly from the level of penalties that may be imposed on perpetrators, for example. theft of an animal, i.e. 3 months to 5 years imprisonment or animal hunting during a protective period, i.e. Up to 5 years of imprisonment. The current criminal risk for killing an animal is 2 years, which is a grossly low penalty compared to other penalties. crime and far too mild, given that it protects the highest good, that is, animal life. The project has been prepared to address the problems that exist. Thus, in the case of animal killing and animal abuse, the project provides for an increase in the sentence of 2 years imprisonment to 3 years, while in the case of the perpetrator with special cruelty - from 3 years to 5 years imprisonment. Another of the demands of this project is the introduction of a mandatory decision on animal protection in order to convict the perpetrator of a crime against animal life and health. The introduction of such additional sanctions will increase awareness on the part of the perpetrators as to the reprehensibility of their conduct and will also reduce the number of cases of the perpetrators returning to the crime. Undoubtedly, the introduction of this obligation in the perspective will have a positive impact on the formation of the public's legal awareness of the criminal protection of animals. Importantly, the funds of the institutions will be transferred to various types of animal protection organisations, which will contribute to their effectiveness. High Izbo, in the current state of law, is extremely rare and, at a very low rate, most often not more than 1 000. zł. Extensive changes in criminal measures in the form of a ban on the possession of any animal or specific category of animal and the prohibition on the establishment and pursuit of the profession of animals against the perpetrators of such offences are also commendable. Those prohibitions will operate by analogy with Article. 41 The Penal Code, which provides the possibility to prohibit the occupation of a particular position, the pursuit of a particular profession and the pursuit of a business activity. Both of these criminal measures will be imposed on perpetrators who committed a criminal offence with particular cruelty against animal life and health. High Izbo! So far, there have also been no specific regulations allowing effective enforcement from those convicted of crimes against the protection of animals of compliance with criminal measures, so that the banned ban was not translated into reality. The proposal also introduces a very necessary regulation on this issue. The last amendment is to clarify the wording of the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 point 18 of the Animal Protection Act, which provides criminal liability for persons who transport or hold live fish for sale or without sufficient water for breathing. High Izbo! The continuous increase in animal crime, including the increase in the number of acts committed with particular cruelty, is an undeniable basis for concluding that the current criminal rules do not fulfil their task. The Law and Justice Club supports this government bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u338	Thank you, Member. Mr Artur Dunin will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to make a statement concerning the draft Law on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act contained in print No 1509. Minister! You are facing animals, not humans, but animals, and here the Civic Platform shares your view that the justice system has not actually grown up to protect animals properly, but we have some comments on this project. Minister! The Supreme Court ruled that the natural environment of life for fish is water - in the first change you delete water. You want the fish to live without water, breathe? Here, the Civic Platform Club is clear today that it will make such an amendment to this project. I was surprised to receive this information, because when you sent the project to the non-governmental community, unfortunately, without this first change, so I have a great request that next time you send out the draft arrangements, it is entirely not only selective. That's one thing. Second thing. Minister, I have a few questions, which is why I would very much like to lean on this project in the course of further work on the Committee on Agriculture. As you have learned from your marshal, also in the agricultural committee, where I am a representative, but I am also a representative of a team of animal friends, so I support this project personally and the Platform Club is also interested in introducing these changes, which, as the Minister said, are largely limited to increasing penalties. In fact, this can have a positive effect in the future when it comes to punishing people without hearts, in fact, inhumans who abuse animals. But I have a request to the Minister to hand over to the Minister, and at the same time to the Attorney General, to make sure that, in fact, the people who are caught by the police... The best example is the provocation made by the journalist Radio Łódź. Mrs. Parzeczew, although she was sentenced to ten months ago, today she continues to trade animals - illegally, so I would very much ask the Minister General to lean on this case. The Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform will also bend over in the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Justice on this project and at the same time announces an amendment to the amendment of the first amendment, Minister. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u340	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz Posel Club15, Mr Piotr Appeal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project is really good because it's going in the right direction. I have no doubt that anyone who wants to harm animals and harm animals is a potential threat to society and needs to be reeducated and isolated. It's obvious to me, and I'm glad this project is going to the Sejm. Of course, it is not that this bill is perfect, because it is fortunate that there will be time to submit amendments, and Kukiz15 will certainly use this time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u342	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Lieder will now speak on behalf of the Poselski Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u343	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I wanted to present my comments to the government bill amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act. This code is long awaited by many environments, has many important, good solutions and we could support this project if it were not for the fact that at the last moment a few words were crossed out in some mysterious way, actually one very important word. And why do I say under mysterious circumstances? Because during the consultations that took place, the organisations were convinced that this was the whole project, and it turned out that we had already received it with this amendment. What exactly am I talking about? I'm talking about art. Article 6 (6) (a) Paragraph 2 (18) of this Act. Currently, the law states that by bullying animals, it is necessary to mean inflicting or knowingly allowing pain or suffering, and in particular point 18: transporting live fish or keeping them for sale without sufficient water to prevent breathing. Projectors want to change this to: transporting live fish or keeping them in conditions that prevent breathing. The word "water" disappears from the recipe and it is not a mistake or accidental change. I would like to know why such a record, why these words were deleted. I take it this transport will be cheaper then? The conditions that allow fish to breathe may be far from the appropriate standards of protection for fish can cause the suffering of these animals. As a result, ensuring only the exchange of gas through the skin in fish will be sufficient to be able to transport these animals in accordance with the regulations. But under the conditions laid down by the World Organisation for Animal Health in relation to the transport of fish, the water quality required during the transport of fish, not the lack of water. Let me quote a passage from the letter sent to you by e-mail as part of the citizens' protest: The Supreme Court in its judgment of 13 December 2016 pointed out that carps require protection like other vertebrate animals, stating that the natural environment of fish is the aquatic environment, and therefore the principle should be to transport, retain and transfer fish in an aquatic environment, i.e. in such a way as to ensure their proper living conditions, i.e. the possibility of their existence in accordance with their species needs. On the other hand, the article. 1 paragraph 1 This law clearly speaks of the status of an animal who, as a living being capable of suffering, is not a thing. A man owes him respect, protection and care. The law is not limited to listing the catalogue of prohibited acts, it regulates the attitude towards animals based on humane treatment and rights, not just the response to possible situations. Therefore, this provision requires further work in the committee in order to formulate it so as to prevent too broad interpretation and to be consistent with the intentions that we can read about in the explanatory memorandum of your project. According to government data, an upward trend was observed between 2001 and 2015 in terms of the number of people legally convicted of animal offences, in particular those committed with particular cruelty. The Animal Protection Act has required changes for a long time, both in terms of the relationship between social values and the legal normative system... What is worth pointing out on this occasion is that criminal legislation should propose the introduction of an element of corrective justice, which is socially useful work for a social organisation whose statutory objective is to protect animals, rather than a fine or alongside it. The purpose of justice here is not to retaliate, but to make amends to damage or harm. The use of remedies reduces the risk of a similar offence in the future and promotes social rehabilitation. In the government project, a provision was made that, in the event of a conviction for an animal offence, the court would have to declare an animal protection purpose on a case-by-case basis. At present, this is not mandatory. In addition, the provisions proposed in the draft aim to increase penalties for the killing and abuse of animals, the introduction of a judicial ban on the pursuit of professions, activities or activities requiring authorisation of the use of animals or the impact on them of special cruelty to them, and the prohibition on the possession of animals by those persons. These are changes that we strongly support. In conclusion, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of transferring the project to the agricultural committee in order to amend the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 point 18 [[♪ The bell ♪]] and to the codification committee, because there are also changes there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u344	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u345	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act, contained in print No 1509. The aim of this project is to improve the legal protection of animals against brutal and unworthy human treatment. The goal, we agree, and this was due to the statements of the previous speakers, is not controversial. I think we're all able to agree with him over any division. One thing that needs to be said, as the classic used to say, is obvious here in the discussion of these changes: that it cannot protect animals legally, protecting them from the misfortune of these animals at the same time lead to a deterioration of the situation or some drastic situation on the part of people. We had this situation in our previous term of office in connection with the so-called. ritual slaughter. Then, too, the noble purpose, to protect animals from suffering, contributed, without getting into the details, because there is no time for this, to the collapse of the extremely important industry, which was, unfortunately, already... [[This business didn't fall.]] ...in the past, you have to say, and long, I think, it will take her to rebuild, the breeding industry beef cattle, which thus reached the wide world markets. But here I do not want to present it to the Minister with regret, because I know that at that time your club, the Solidarna Polski Club, behaved very well, you stood at the level of the task on this... [[But the industry hasn't fallen, sir.]] ...stage. And today I feel like we're facing similar dilemmas too. It's very customary. I mean, those who actually act in a beastly way, because these cases - here consent with the Minister - which in tabloids, in the media are sometimes shown, deserve the greatest condemnation. In fact, the perpetrators of these acts should be subject to such severe punishment. You just need to, I think, very much diligence in the process stage of this bill. It is also important to ensure that the victims of this law are not, for example, affected by the entry into force of this law. people who customarily hold a dog in some little too small a pen, while feeding it, nurturing it, providing veterinary protection. I would also pay attention to the fact that the victims of this law are not older people who care for these animals, but who are not always able to care for them due to age, for example. in a little behind a tight apartment in a tenement. Because of age and opportunity, they will not change this apartment, they will not enlarge it, and often this dog is the only proverbial friend of these people. This is, I think, a very important thing to say today. However, this does not change our position as a club, that we would like this project to be aimed at further work. Nevertheless, it is necessary to proceed with a lot of caution, so that, as I say, this very carefully elevated level of animal protection against harm does not cause any bad situation here with their owners. What else is important? The severity of penalties is important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, without adequate information, without systematically raising the level of knowledge about caring for the situation of animals, without realizing what conditions should be created for them, or without...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u346	Thank you very much, sir. You have run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u347	...an institutional increase in the level of control of animal breeding, the state of keeping these animals, too, I think, fully this effect, which we agree on, is not going to be achieved.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u348	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u349	Mr. Marshal, thank you, and I'm sorry I missed your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u350	Thank you. On behalf of the Circle of the European Union of Democrats, Mr Stefan Niesiołowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad to see you, Minister Jake. I think it is a good thing that you are not dealing with insects this time, as has happened in this House. I must congratulate the department on its hard work, which is taking the time to take care of small things altogether. I mean, you guys have so many things on your mind. We need to eliminate the independence of the courts, what you do. It is important to ensure that various types of political hooligans who tend to raise their hand in the gesture of a Roman salute or to worship swastika, as you know, the symbol of Indian sun worship, are not harmed, or that harm does not happen to people who declare themselves willing and willing to hang Zionists. So I have to say thank you very much and congratulate the Ministry of Justice on your diligence this time. Finally, the fact that you have prosecutors on your head, who misread Polish interests, and yet Poland's interests are, as you know, about supporting the PiS. So you have your hands full, and Mr. What time did you find to come here and share your remarks with us? In general, the Union of European Democrats supports this project. It was all justified here. All these preceding and talking about animal cruelty and fighting against it we support. I will not empathize with your atrocities, but a few more examples. You shouldn't have come back to those government insults he abdicated. It is already Smolensk rhetoric, until three times you say: the government is not trying, the government has nothing to boast about in this case, only the PiS has only just taken care of the animals. This could be spared, especially since the PiS showed some imperfection here too, for example. You could grow white-red foxes. After all, a fox ore, a mean, false, and a white-red fox so beautiful, or a fox colored. So that you have some shortcomings, too. I do not recall that the environmental organizations that you have praised here are willing to finance, because you are giving money very generously to Mr.Rydzyk, you are giving it to Mr.Szyszko, you are glad to give it to all kinds of characters of this kind, while the environmental organisations for which you have found so many words of praise so far, to be precise, they have not enjoyed the benefit or generosity of Mrs. Szydło's government. In the absence of time, there is only one more issue I can raise, and it has already been addressed. It's a fish issue, I mean mostly carp, but not only. In the Act, fish are awarded in general, which are transported without water. I understand the intention of course, I understand the intention of all those who protest against the fact that the case is more complex. Well, I wouldn't bother, because there's generally this record that fish have to breathe, and that doesn't necessarily mean they have to swim. Remember, in African rivers, as I see you, I recall, there are fish that live there, and they live without water at least for a long time. There are fish that live in mangroves. I envy you at all the nature you've had the opportunity to observe. Unfortunately, I haven't experienced what they look like, only what they show in the reservations, and it's a shame to say. In short, it's fish without water. The eel also comes out of the water, so it's not new. If the fish is in leftover water, where there are leftover epidermis, feces, it may be worse than when the fish is in moisture, but without water and breathing. So this is a delicate issue, I'm saying it again. Here I'd have the wrong intention of the government... Maybe it's some scam, something you know, because these appointments, consultations, that's suspicious. This is indeed some element that may be unclear. If you literally take this record, if a fish needs to breathe, it practically means that in a humid environment it can live. As for suffering, there are other nervous systems, other stimuli, and it's not so obvious. Of course, vertebrates, even invertebrates, experience pain and suffering - this is a delicate problem - but I wouldn't mix it with suffering. In general animal breeding, killing all this is suffering. But indeed - I refer to the representative of PSL, a party that maybe is less sensitive to the pain of the animal, more to the profit of the farmer, which is understandable - yes, we eat these animals, which is also hypocritical pretending that as if... Well, that's a delicate problem, but I wouldn't generally pick on that, as I say, and I would be looking for some compromise, if possible, solutions in this area. Around the European Union, the Democrats will vote in favour of passing this project on to further proceding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u352	On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarnia Circle of Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act. This amendment aims to increase the protection of animals. To this end, applicants propose inter alia. increase maximum penalties for the killing of animals and the abuse of animals from 2 to 3 years in prison, and in cases of special cruelty up to 5 years. In addition, for any conviction, the court will be required to give a judgment on the purpose of protecting animals, which may be of a maximum amount of 100,000. zł. It is a good idea to increase the capacity to rule on high claims, but whether it is such a restriction of the freedom of the court to rule by imposing a mandatory imposition, I am already in doubt. Similarly, increasing the upper limit of punishment, without ensuring its inevitability, which I would focus more on, raises my doubts. In addition, the proposal provides for a compulsory ban on the holding of animals and a ban on the occupation of animals for persons who have treated animals with particular cruelty in the past, while extending the period for which such a ban may be issued from 10 to 15 years. I do not fully agree with the claim of the projectors that merely tightening up legislation, acting as an effective preventive measure, will deter potential perpetrators from violence against animals and will translate into a reduction in the number of offences committed in this category. I mentioned earlier that, in my opinion, the inevitability of punishment, not its severity, is a better deterrent. However, given the data and statistics cited in the explanatory memorandum, there is no doubt that increased action in this area is necessary and in my view this is in line with social expectations. In my view, one of the more effective solutions proposed in the amendment is to increase the level of court-mandatory formations. The use of additional funds for animal protection purposes may not only prove to be an effective educational measure, it will certainly be realistic and positive in terms of opportunities for helping non-governmental organisations. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, despite its doubts, is optimistic about the assumptions of this amendment and will vote in favour of further proceding it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u354	Thank you very much. An independent Member, Mr Jan Klawiter, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the Right of the Republic of Poland, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the ruling majority, on the one hand, refuses to tighten the penalties for killing people by so-called. An abortion, and at the same time he wants to tighten the penalty for animal abuse. It is worth recalling here the words of the President of the Right of the Republic of Poland, Marek Jurk, from the April meeting of the Committee on Petitions: "I do not think that it is possible to put the case that a child in this most difficult stage of his life, when he is only handed over to his parents, will deserve less protection than e.g. a disc that can be copied, or a stray dog that can be mistreated. Of course - property deserves protection, animals deserve protection, but first of all our first duty is to man. Law and Justice got scared of the so-called. Black protests. It so happens that today in many cities of Poland either they have passed or will soon pass marches for life and family. If we want to take all citizens seriously and not just the so-called participants. Black protests, we should first address the issue of proper care for the rights of people, as the marchers for life and family demand, and then consider the issue of animal rights. In my opinion, more needs to be done for the consistent application of the existing law, which protects animals and is not used. However, I will vote in favour of moving the project to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u356	Thank you very much. 11 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. And the first question is asked by Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u357	Thank you, Marshal. Too bad it's only one minute. We have a little time, but let's not waste it. Minister! High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Animal Protection Act is also fully exhaustive in terms of tightening penalties adopted by the Parliamentary Animal Friends Team, which I am pleased to chair. In some part of it, the government project is exhausting those records, which in this large project, the extensive amendment, have been included. However, I would like to draw attention here in particular to the amendment of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 18 concerning the record of the significant water which has disappeared from that provision. Minister, we cannot allow this record to remain in this shape. This is extremely important from the point of view of abuse that awaits us if such a provision remains. We've been fighting over the last few years to eliminate the sale of live fish in supermarkets, jumping commercials with live fish in shopping carts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This record will undoubtedly bring back this aspect...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u358	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u359	...and will be largely abused. That is why I have a question, Minister, if you will support the Civic Platform's amendment in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u360	The question is asked by Mr Killion Munyama, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u361	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Animal crime is a very special problem today. On the one hand, much indulgence in criminals and on the other hand too mild regulations. I fear that today a criminal has no brakes to not bully an animal, and tomorrow he will simply have no scruples to bully a man. The penalties proposed, which are related to this project, concern me a little. I have these questions: Have you done the calculations, how much will the government budget planned in the draft penalty cost? What to do if a criminal is an unemployed person? Isn't it better to judge social work for animals in shelters or huts in such cases? Hard work and education can make a criminal simply subject to involuntary rehabilitation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u362	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law strengthens the punishment for animal abuse. The package of changes will also help organisations dealing with the fate of animals through mandatory contributions to them. As is the law in force, every animal needs humane treatment. Minister, I'd like to ask if shooting pheasants released from cages, unable to fly, because bred in a hunting compound, is a brutal act against an animal, or an ethical and legitimate entertainment of a hunter. Too bad, I'm very sorry that Minister Szyszko isn't in the room, because maybe he could tell us something about it and explain why he shot pheasants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u364	The question is asked by Mr Michał Cieślak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In my speech, I would like to ask you, to draw the Minister's attention to the rights of the citizen, to legislation that protects citizens from false accusations of NGOs interested in obtaining funding from municipalities and court formations for animals taken away. In full agreement with the tightening of penalties, please state whether the Act introduces a safeguard mechanism so that high claims do not become a motivating element for the submission of unfounded reports. Currently, representatives of the organisation often enter the premises without the police and veterinarians. Are you considering the participation of the Minister of Police and representatives of the district veterinarian in animal collection interventions with a voice that determines the appropriateness of the intervention, because NGO representatives do not have any official competence for this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In many cases, the difficult conditions of people who are ill, poor, who...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u366	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u367	...keep these animals by sharing what they have. I would like to share my remarks with the Minister and ask him to pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u368	The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Each year at least 1 billion chickens, 37 million calves, pigs, sheep, goats and horses are transported inside and outside the European Union. This applies to Poland, of course. Animals, often frightened, beaten and neglected, often spend a few days in trucks. Lack of access to water, food, numerous injuries, and diseases indicate inhumane and inhumane treatment of animals. Trucks in which animals are transported are often not equipped with special bulkheads to facilitate their transport. Animals experience unimaginable torment, standing for several hours, and even a few days in a crowded truck full of animals destined for cruel death under wicked conditions. Some European Union countries, such as Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Belgium and Austria, have called on Parliament to amend the regulation that regulates animal transport, of course towards stricter conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish side, the Government of Law and Justice, is resisting these changes. Why? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u370	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, on this occasion, I would like to ask you if you also see the sequence of subsequent amendments to the Animal Protection Act, which would aim to introduce two things. It is about the prohibition of keeping pet animals trapped in a permanent manner and the prohibition of the use of animals in circuses and travelling menageries. Did you ever think about that? Do you want to do this? If so, when can these changes be expected? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u372	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem of legal cases involving animal offences is a very high percentage of these cases being resolved. I would like to ask how this problem could be solved. Aren't these things a little too often and too hasty? How could the new rules possibly guarantee more cases under consideration? I also have a question about the changes to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 point 18 of the draft law. However, isn't there a great deal of danger here because there is too much room for interpretation of this provision, which could reduce the standard of fish protection? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u374	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill contains quite high penalties for people who abuse animals, but no additional penalty is foreseen in the case of a repeat. What if someone regularly bullies animals? He's gonna get one punishment. Would it not be wise to consider whether, for those who have actually committed such a shameful act on several occasions, a life-long ban on the possession of animals? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u376	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two things. The first is that some solutions are lacking, but I hope that we will also be able to talk about this in committee. It's about animals being handed over to people who can't have them. Will they be able to sell or transfer property to someone else? Here it is not simply written, and in my opinion it is very important, because already today many people come to me, even from pro-animal organizations, which have a horse state, want to pass it on and cannot, because it has not yet been picked up and do not have property rights. What about this issue, what is the result of these changes? That's one thing. And the other thing is very important. As a colleague Paweł Suski said here, President of the Parliamentary Animal Friends Team, this is one of the sections of the bill that has just been prepared by the Parliamentary Animal Friends Team. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Couldn't the government of Beata Szydło take over the entire bill and report it as his own? For if it is reported by the Civic Platform, you will surely reject it at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u378	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u379	So there's a big request that you take over this whole project and report it as your own. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u380	The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u381	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to withdraw my request to refer the project to the Committee on the Environment. codification, which we explained. And now the question. Without proper education and sensibility, without empathy as far as animals are concerned, we will not change our attitude, our society's attitude, to animals. A long-term education and information policy is needed in this area aimed at society. Is the government planning any action? For example, in Denmark, ladies and gentlemen, classes have been introduced in schools on empathy. I think that thanks to such occupations and after such classes even Mr Niesiołowski would have had more empathy for fish that are suffocating in plastic bags, without water. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u382	Thank you. The question is asked by Agata Borowiec, a club called Law and Justice. There is no Member. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Oh, there it is. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u383	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in the context of the changes to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 point 18 of the Animal Protection Act, which requires some clarification as to what the committee responsible will already do, is it true that different types of fish require different conditions during transport or storage? Some, like eels, also apply to eggs, do not need water, hence, I understand, the proposal to change this point. The next question concerns words in the current law, which refers to the conditions preventing breathing. I understand that this evident legislative error will also be corrected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u384	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the punishment. Have the State analysed other legal solutions in other countries regarding the effectiveness of such penalties that are presented? And the important thing that Mr Meysztowicz raised here. There are cases where such association with animals seems to be a way of life. In view of how it would be possible, what solution could be adopted in order to avoid future cases of so-called. Recidivism? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u386	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you about the situation in which any animal or animal category is banned. What if the court sets the perpetrator a reasonable time limit for the transfer of the animal to another person or institution and informs the court thereof? What will be the selection criteria A new place for this animal? Will the animal be able to be placed under the care of a non-governmental organisation that deals with e.g. animal protection? Shouldn't that be possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u388	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Patrick Jak, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u389	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Most of the questions or doubts raised in the discussion were about the conditions for storing or transporting fish. I want to be honest with you right now, where the bill came from, which is so controversial. We put it on a clear and firm request from the Minister for Maritime Affairs, who used arguments similar to those used by Mr Niesiołowski, i.e. that there are certain categories of fish which, under conditions such as moisture, are stored in a more humane manner than e.g. in waters of certain quality categories. I can honestly say that I'm not a specialist, and I can't judge that, which is why my proposal is that I'm not closing myself absolutely to a change in this project. Let's work on this in committee, let's just sit down and consider these arguments so that we don't hurt anyone here. So let's just say that in committee, we'll make a decision together. I am probably answering indirectly Mr Dunin's question whether the government could not take over the entire Animal Friends' Act, because if the Platform reports it, this project will not be adopted. I would like to say, Mr President, that I cannot imagine a situation in which I would vote against something that I agree with just because it comes from the Platform. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Look... [[There are many such examples.]] Look at my vote. In my previous term, I had to vote for the Palikot projects that I thought were good. [[By mistake.]] I don't know where that reaction comes from. If the case, the project is well-founded, then I cannot imagine this type of vote. But that's my opinion. The same applies to fish. If we find out to each other that this provision needs to be amended, then - I declare to you immediately - regardless of who it comes from, we are ready to accept it. [[Applause]] But if... [[We'll hold you to that.]] But I'm saying I'm open to discussion because it's kind of... [[Oh, so the amendment won't pass.]] I am not a specialist in this area, but as I understand it, Mr Niesiołowski's expertise is not disputed, is it? You can question mine, but I don't think you're questioning it. On the other hand, with regard to the question concerning - probably this Łódź example - non-compliance with the judicial ban on the possession of animals, this problem arises from the fact that, in today's legislation, non-compliance with such a ban is not punishable. This amendment changes this state of affairs and introduces penalties in Article. 244 criminal code up to five years. Therefore, if the High House asks me if we're going to change it, then I answer that yes, this rule absolutely changes everything. A person who will be so indulgent in law enforcement is now absolutely not going to remain unpunished. Several questions concerned the possibility of punishing social work. Of course, it's possible. It is here that the mandatory arrangement absolutely does not narrow down the fan in the case law of the courts, therefore there is no possibility here. High Seym, the next question was Hunting Law. As the High Sejm knows, this is a completely separate bill and a completely separate subject which is outside the Ministry of Justice. A case concerning the change in the length of the ban on the holding of animals, as proposed by the Modern Member here, from 15 years to the lifetime ban on the holding of animals. We're open to discussions on the committee, too. Let us try to see that the change in this area is, will be justified. I'm open here, too. I think that's it. Let's work on the committee. Thank you very much. [[And the question of property so that animals can be passed on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u390	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The bill amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code provides, among others. increase the penalties for the killing and abuse of animals. In practice, this means increasing the upper limit of the sentence from 2 years to 3 years of imprisonment and, in the event of this being done with particular cruelty, from 3 years to 5 years. Unfortunately, these recent cases are quite common, and I know this from an autopsy, cases of animal poisoning, including especially dogs. Depending on the product used, the animal dies in great agony. I consider it most appropriate to increase the level of punishment. Let's hope there's a deterrent effect and there's no need to convict people. But is there, therefore, a broader information campaign to get word of punishment to everyone so that the bill doesn't go without an echo? And second question. It is not said that such costs are involved, but whether the prosecution and the police can count on more resources related to the investigation of evidence, e.g. the costs of toxicological analyses which are high to make these procedures more effective? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u392	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code in print No. 1509 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Yes, sir.]] This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 10 May this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first vote will be taken by Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Grzegorz Schetyna, speaking in the Seym on 7 April against the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło was so far gone that at some point, here quotes, he stroked the desk of the speaker with his hand. It can be seen that Schetyna forgot what President Harry Truman of the United States thought about such situations - here is a quote: Who in politics hacks his fist to the table should make sure that he doesn't have a tack on him. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u394	Thank you. The statement will be made by Catherine Czochar, the Law and Justice Club. There is no Member. Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice. And neither is your Member. Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club. Another envoy that isn't there. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! April 25th this year a small public square located at the intersection of the streets of Fr. Stefan Baldego and the Cathedral in the centre of Opole were named: Bishop Antoni Adamiuk square. Fr. Bishop Antoni Adamiuk was an auxiliary bishop of the Opole diocese in 1970 and 1989, when he retired. He died in Opole on 25 January 2000. Fr. Bishop Antoni Adamiuk was a very important person for the inhabitants of Opole. Since 1980, he has been a chaplain in Solidarity. In a martial state, he held services for his homeland. He spoke to the voivodship authorities in the defense of the repressed activists of Solidarity, he was co-founder of an interned aid committee at the Bishop's curia in Opole. In the Episcopate he belonged among others. to the Committee on the Functioning of the European Union, The Ministry of Labour. As a man associated with the Solidarity and the Club of Catholic Intelligence in Opole, in whose life Fr. Bishop Adamiuk was a very important personality, which left a clear mark in his actions, from this place I would like to thank the Management Board of the Silesian Region of Opole NSZZ, the authorities of the historical department of the University of Opole and the President of the City of Opole, the authors of this event, for the initiative and for the implementation of it. Bishop Antoni Adamiuk deserved our memory and gratitude, and the name of his square in the center of the city will establish this memory. Staying at the Bishop's curia in Opole and taking advantage of the fact that next Sunday, May 14, one of the successors of Fr. bp. Anthony Adamiuk, Fr. Bishop Paweł Stobrawa, the auxiliary bishop of the Opole diocese, will celebrate the anniversary of the bishops' ordination, which he received in 2003, I would like to see Fr. bp. Paul would like to congratulate and wish all the graces of God in his Bishop's service. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u396	Thank you very much. Now the statement is made by Mrs Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice Club. The Member doesn't have one. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice. This will be the last statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u397	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to introduce to you the figure of a young hero from Ciechanowska - Adasia Rzewuski. On the southern side of the drug forest there was a farm called Maliniak. There was a family of poor Rzewuskie aristocrats. They came all the way from Fastov near Kiev in 1942. The father of the family Władysław Rzewuski grew several acres of low sandy soil on this Maliniak and raised four of his children in a patriotic family tradition. Direct proximity to the forest, considerable distance from frequented roads and larger human clusters, as well as the patriotic attitude of the host led to the establishment of a conspiracy centre here. Here he established his headquarters of an inspector of the Armed Fighting Union, and then the Home Army, comprising in the last phase of his activity three circuits: Ciechanowski, Mławski and Działdowski. The whole family of Rzewuski became involved in conspiracy work. The youngest, 17-year-old Adaś named himself Storm. Their house became a meeting place and a meeting place. This was where the news and all sorts of conspiracy materials were transmitted. On the last day of March 1944, Jan Barański ps. The worm received an order from Inspector Benicki, who was sent to the contact point in the village of Bolewo four packages containing filipinos, newspapers, orders and clothing. A boy named Adasia Rzewuski was assigned to help him. Armed with two guns, a nine-shot parabellum, they were going to make sure they were okay. They ignored the rules of conspiracy. They walked together, side by side, instead of some distance, just keeping eye contact. They did not notice the quietly approaching sleighs carried by a Polish cartman with two policemen. They heard a sharp whistle calling them to stop. When asked how they would explain themselves, Baranski answered: with guns. He put his hand in the pocket of his coat and ripped out the safety gun. However, the Germans warned him and the shooting took place. At the same time, two shots were fired: the gendarme hit Adasia, the Baranski fatally struck the German. The last rounds of the Baranski were directed towards the second policeman fleeing into the woods. When he ran out of bullets, he ran up to Adaz and pulled the boy's arm. This one didn't say anything. Then the Baranski jumped behind the nearest tree and fleeing round and round, ran to Maliniak to inform the Rzewuski about what had happened. By protecting herself from the German threat, the family left home and went wandering until the end of the war. Meanwhile, in the forest, the remaining gendarmes with the help of a van loaded his dead friend on the sleigh and approached Adasia. The boy who regained consciousness was groaning in pain. They and the truck helped him get up and get in the sled. After taking the physical evidence, they headed for the drug. Adaś considered his position all the way, meditated on his conduct, and perhaps at that time, he decided his fate on his own in the face of mortal danger. After his initial interrogation, the boy was locked up in local custody under strict guard. He was too valuable a prey. She was summoned to him by a midwife to look at her wounds. In such suffering, Adas died. On the site of the skirmish in 1969, the Ciechanov Land Lovers' Society set up a field boulder with the inscription: "Here, on March 31, 1944, he was wounded in the fight of Adaś Rzewuski ps. Storm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Told by the Gestapo, he died the day after the torture in Lekowo. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-10-sejm-41-1.u398	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 11 May 2017, no later than 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 09]]
