ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u1	I open the forty-first sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its forty-first meeting on 11 May 2017 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Nature Conservation and the Act amending the Act on Social Security and the Act amending the Labour Code and some other laws. At the same meeting, on 11 May 2017, the Sejm adopted most of the Senate's amendments to the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight. I inform you that the minutes of the Thirty-eightth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that point 6 of the draft agenda be considered, although the report of the Committee on Culture and Communications on the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods was provided at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of points: the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods and consider this point as second point; the Act amending the Fire Protection Act The European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, and in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. The Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, is hereby amended as follows: and consider this point as the fifth. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the Government of General Courts and certain other laws . and consider it as point 10, after a point concerning the Law amending the Law on Postal Law; third reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and consider it as the last point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that points six, i.e. Act amending the Act of Law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts; 8th, i.e. The law on claims for damages caused by an infringement of competition law will be considered today at 3 p.m. Point nine, i.e. Law on the amendment of the law of the Post Law, and the tenth point, i.e. The law amending the Law on National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws will be considered tomorrow. I would also like to inform you that today at 12.00 a half-hour break will be arranged for the opening of the exhibition Leon Janta-Połczyński (1867 The half-hour break will also be ordered tomorrow at 12.00 for the opening of the exhibition "Bunt in the Empire" for the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Student Solidarity Committee. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, in the absence of legislative proposals for the draft resolution on Leon Janty-Połczyński, we will proceed immediately after considering this point. I wish it was before the break. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of the item of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on recognition of great merits for the Polish country Leon Janty-Połczyński in the 150th anniversary of his birthday. I would like to warmly welcome the guests present at the meeting, including members of the family of Leon Janty-Połczyński: grandson, Professor Stanisław Tyszkiewicz I welcome you very warmly, Professor; [[applause]] A great-grandson, Krzysztof Tyszkiewicz... [[applause]] I welcome you very warmly; and the great-grandson, Andrzej Bajera... [[applause]] I welcome you very cordially. Thank you very much for coming and very cordially welcome, welcome family. The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 437 and the committee's report In print No 437 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Report from the Legislative Commission. The Commission sat on 26 April and examined the draft resolution submitted by the applicants at first reading, amended it and proposed that the Senate adopt a uniform draft resolution on the recognition of the merits of the Polish State Leon Janty-Połczyński on the 150th anniversary of his birth. Here's the text of the resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on recognition of merits for the Polish State Leon Janty-Połczyński in the 150th anniversary of his birth. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Leon Jancie-Połczyński, outstanding Pole, great patriot, politician, lawyer and social activist. On 25 May 2017, 150 years have passed since the birth of Leon Janty-Połczyński (1867 During the Prussian partition he was among others. The patron of Polish agricultural circles in Gdansk Pomerania (1907-1919), the publisher of Polish magazines such as Kłosy (1905/1919) and Gazet Gdansk (1898 and 1905), in the years of World War I belonged to Polish secret associations fighting for independence. In the Second Republic he served as State Deputy Minister of the former Prussian Quarter (1919 and 1921) and Minister of Agriculture (1930 and 1932) in 5 governments, and was Senator I and III of the term of office. He was born on 25 May 1867 in the High (Tuchola district) as the son of landowner Adam and Leontyna from Zabłocki. Leon Janta-Połczyński, graduate of the Classical Junior High School in Chojnice, studied law at universities in Berlin and Jena. After World War I he was an expert at a peace conference in Versailles. Despite the deep economic crisis as Minister of Agriculture, he has undertaken a number of economic initiatives, including: helped small farmers with their credit payments, initiated the state's intervention purchases of surplus cereals, tried to revive agricultural exports from Poland and to create a block of 8 Baltic-Baltic countries based on the development of common agricultural production. Its extremely active social activity in the Polish Pomerania environment is worth noting even during the Prussian partition. In addition, he participated in numerous initiatives aimed at achieving independence by Western lands during World War I. He engaged in the fight for the return of Pomerania to Poland, and even gathered several thousand guns to prepare the uprising. During World War II, threatened by German occupation and loss of life, he was hiding in the General Government. He died in Poznań on 20 July 1961. The truly patriotic achievements of Leon Janty-Połczyński for the sovereignty of our country are confirmed by numerous awards, among others. The Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland, the Commander's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland or the Order of Saint Grzegorz Wielki. He was known as a social worker who treated activities for the public good as a patriotic duty. The Senate of the Republic of Poland recognizes the great merits of Leon Janty-Połczyński as worthy of the highest recognition, above all as a patriot devoted to the affairs of the Homeland. To date, the silence of His character is all the more justified by the promotion of these merits and the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the birth of Leon Janty-Połczyński through the organisation of numerous events. He calls on the educational community to popularize the character Leon Janty-Połczyński. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. On behalf of the committee, I request that the Senate adopt this resolution. At the same time, I would like to add that by its very nature this resolution is laconic, does not convey the full picture and many other merits of Leon Janty-Połczyński, but we take it as the first step to restoring the memory of one of the most outstanding Poles from Pomerania. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also the representative of the applicants. Who of you would like to ask Mr. Senator that question? Nobody. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. [[Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.]] Senator Jackowski is enrolled in the discussion. You're welcome. And who else? [[There's no one else.]] What about over Because I have to say... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Leon Janty-Połczyński family! On the occasion of the procession of the law on the establishment of the Committee for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of independence of the Republic of Poland At one of the recent meetings, we had the opportunity to discuss this law, while Senator Kobiak was still working on the committee, he rightly pointed out that in the catalogue which is in this law, so-called. The founding fathers of the Second Republic should be Leon Janta-Połczyński. By nature, we have not been able to include in this bill all those who deserve this honorable title, except for 5, 6 persons who are usually regarded as fathers of the founders of the Second Republic, namely Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Wojciech Korfanty, Ignacy Daszyński and Ignacy Paderewski. This catalogue can, of course, be supplemented by other outstanding figures from our national history. I would like to thank the group of senators who raised the question of at least honoring this great Pole in the form of a resolution A Pole from whom the senators sat here had the opportunity to learn about the exhibition that took place about six months ago in the Senate. Here I am thinking about the exhibition "Europe in the Family," where among the dozens of families of landowners who contributed to our culture, to our social life, to our political life, there was also the Jant-Połczyński family from Pomerania Nadwiślański, a land family with huge patriotic traditions. For what Senator Kobiak has said, it could not have been in the resolution, but it is worth paying attention to. It can be added that Leon Janta-Połczyński was the son of Adam Janty-Połczyński, a Polish lawyer who was a Member of the Reichstag, was in Kole Polski. It can be said that Leon Janta-Połczyński from his family home has elevated Polish patriotic traditions. In 1902, he married Maria Komierowska, who also originated in a family of landlord traditions and patriotic traditions. Leon Janty-Połczyński's father-in-law was Roman Komierowski, a Polish lawyer, a historical writer, a Member of the Reichstag. It belonged to this generation of Poles, who in the second half of the 19th century were active in public life in an extremely difficult moment for Poles Hakata, increased repression against Poles, i.e. policies followed after the unification of Germany in our lands in the Prussian partition. For this reason he had extraordinary experience in the field of effectiveness, skills and professional conduct Of course, his activity began earlier, but he especially joined as an activist in favour of the Second Republic. It is regrettable that in 1961. Perhaps a little known thread from his life story is that he worked until he was ninety years old; I am talking about Leona Jancie-Połczyński, and his death passed without an echo. These were the times of the Polish People's Republic, the times of Władysław Gomulka. Such characters from our national pantheon of heroes were ignored by absolute silence. It is worth adding one more thought to my speech. Leon Janta-Połczyński was born in 1867. It was the year of birth of many outstanding Poles. I will remind you that this year, on 1 December 1867 in my constituency, near Grudusk, in Mierzanów, Professor Ignacy Mościcki was born in Ciechanov County, later being president of the Second Republic for 13 years. And also in 1867, on 5 December, the distinguished Marshal Józef Piłsudski was born, pretending to be the undisputed father of Polish independence regained in 1918. So at this point we not only worship the person who made a huge contribution to building and perpetuating the independent Republic of Poland, but also in some way pay tribute to the generation, to people who, under conditions, seemed hopeless Poland in their heart and their whole life gave evidence of their patriotism and their outstanding political talent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u5	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Antoni Szymanski made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on recognition of great merits for the Polish country Leon Janty-Połczyński in the 150th anniversary of his birthday. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the recognition of great merits for the Polish State Leon Janty-Połczyński in the 150th anniversary of his birthday. I ask Mr Stanisław Tyszkiewicz, the grandson of Leon Janty-Połczyński, to approach the presidial table. I'd like to give you a resolution of the Senate. [[Applause]] I remind you at the moment is such a short technical break At 12:00 p.m., there will be a solemn opening of the exhibition "Leon Janta-Połczyński" (1867 and 1961) "Senator and Minister of Borów Tucholskie," to which I invite all ladies and gentlemen of the senators very cordially. We proceed to the second item of the agenda: the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods. The text of the Act is contained in print No 498, the report of the Commission in print No 498 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Representatives of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Culture and Communications on the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods adopted by the Sejm on 21 April 2017. The Commission met yesterday and after a brief discussion, because there were no issues at issue with this law. It has decided to recommend that the High House adopt 7 amendments to this law. These amendments were also accepted by Minister Sellin, who attended the High Commission meeting yesterday. And these amendments, as well as the whole of the bill, were adopted and supported unanimously by all the senators present at the committee meeting. And what is the purpose of this bill? The Law of 21 April on the restitution of national cultural objects transposes into Polish law the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State, amending the 2012 Regulation. That Directive replaced the earlier Directive of 15 March 1993 on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State. The objective of this current Directive, i.e. 2014 is to protect I stress: protecting the integrity of the cultural heritage of each of the Member States of the European Union by making it easier for these countries to seek the return of cultural goods illegally removed from their territory in the territory of another Member State. This shows the objective and framework of the proposed law, which sets out what should be done in situations where, in an illegal manner, some cultural good has been brought out of one Member State which is currently in the European Union. Or cultural goods, some sort of set of goods in the territory of another Member State. In the light of the provisions of the Directive, the specific procedure laid down therein may be applied only to cultural objects classified by the State from which they were removed as national cultural goods, provided that the export of such goods is subject to restrictions in the legislation of that State. In the current legal state, restitution of cultural goods is not regulated in a comprehensive manner. In particular, it concerns Chapter 6 of the Law of 23 July 2003 on the protection of monuments and, to a narrower extent, the Law of 21 November 1996 on museums, the Law of 27 June 1997 on libraries, the Act of 14 July 1983 on national archival resources and archives and the Act of 25 October 1991 on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods sets out the bodies competent for the restitution of cultural goods carried out by the Republic of Poland on its territory and abroad, the handling of cultural goods carried out in violation of the law from the territory of Poland, as well as the bodies competent for restitution carried out in respect of cultural goods located in the territory of the Republic of Poland by foreign countries and foreigners and proceedings for the return of cultural goods carried out in breach of the law from the territory of a Member State of the European Union other than Poland. According to Art. 2 (1) of the Act, the good of culture means a monument within the meaning of Article. 3 point 1 of the Act of 23 July 2003 on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments, moving property which is not a monument, as well as their constituent parts or assemblies whose preservation is in the public interest because of their artistic, historical or scientific value or because of their importance for heritage and cultural development. The Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection, in particular in the light of the proposed law, represents the Republic of Poland before the authorities and courts of foreign countries, including the countries of the European Union, as well as against foreigners, foreign legal persons and organisational units which are not legal persons, in matters relating to the restitution of cultural goods, including the return of cultural goods taken out of the territory of the country in violation of the law. That's one thing. Secondly, it represents the State Treasury in matters relating to the restitution of cultural goods in the territory of the Republic of Poland with respect to the principles of representation of the State Treasury referred to in the Act of 15 December 2016 on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. Thirdly, it is present in civil, criminal, administrative, judicial and administrative proceedings, as well as in criminal proceedings relating to the restitution of cultural goods. Fourthly, it is working to find cultural objects subject to restitution. Fifthly, it cooperates with the competent authorities of the European Union and supports mutual consultation on the return of cultural goods to the territories of the European Union. Sixthly, every 5 years, it shall submit to the European Commission a report on the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State. High Izbo, in one word, is a law which fulfils the provisions of the 2014 Directive, firstly and secondly merges the provisions currently contained in the various laws on the subject. As I mentioned, during the discussions at the Committee on Culture and Media, the proposed amendments, 5 amendments of a nature, let us call this legislative, clarification and 2 amendments that have clarified and clarified the not very coherent provisions contained in this law that came to us from the Sejm. The Commission, as I mentioned, voted unanimously after the discussion, together with the amendments. And now I have the honour to recommend to the High House the adoption of this bill. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I propose a little retreat from normal order. Well, you could now ask the Senator the rapporteur, but a government representative, and this is a government project, Minister Sellin has a plane coming up. So maybe we could change the order and ask if the Minister would like to say something on behalf of the applicant, the government, and would you have any questions so that we could use the Minister's presence? I don't see any objections. Then I will ask the senator to step down and give the floor to the Minister. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u8	I am very sorry, but indeed every year Polish-Lithuanian meetings of the working group on common cultural heritage are held. As we know, we have a lot of this Polish heritage in Lithuania. And from now on, these three-day sessions are held in Vilnius, which is why I have to fly there in a minute. As far as this bill is concerned, the idea of this bill is actually Mr. Senator Jackowski's. I'm not gonna say it here. It is quite a complicated law, which has undergone many months of interministerial and social consultations, because it affects many laws currently in force in Poland. It aims to make us in the European Union as a whole more effective in recovering cultural goods that disappear from individual Member States of the European Union as a result of just crime. This law also includes a more effective restitution of cultural goods which, as a result of the criminal war activity during World War II, disappeared from the territory of individual countries. So that it will make it very easy for us to recover what we are sometimes losing as a result of just criminal activity, but also to recover the things we have been looking for since World War II. In the catalog of the Ministry of Culture we have 63,000 records, things we're still looking for. We're getting more and more effective in recovering these works, and we're tracking them more and more. Here it is simply this law that arranges these matters, mainly with regard to interstate relations. The most important rule described in this law: if any work, evidently acquired by criminal means or found in some place, and lost by criminal means, is found, then the judicial process, in order to recover this work, takes place in the country from which the work originates, and the person who is now the owner of this work is to appear in the Member State of origin where the judicial trial takes place. The pace of work on the bill is also important. In the Seym, it went quite quickly, instantly, and we are very happy about it, because here is also the issue of the implementation of the European directive on this subject. We're really behind schedule here. Besides, we are not the only ones, but also many European countries. Because these are very complicated legal matters. Several countries, among others Poland is threatened with financial penalties for non-implementation of the provisions contained in the Directive. If we execute the bill quickly, this threat will be repealed, which we also care very much about. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u9	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit questions to a government representative relating to this item. Please be brief, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u10	Thank you very much. I would ask the Minister to confirm that we are only talking about restitution within the European Community. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Yes.]] Things like that. third countries do not fall within the scope of this law. And my second question is, from a historical point of view, I have come across this legal argument, because the question of non-prescription of property claims is confirmed in case law, in theory it would be possible, e.g. If Poland wanted to pursue cultural claims from the time of the Swedish flood, for example, as regards these Polish harvests, which are currently in the Swedish harvests. There was a discussion about this in Poland. Lawyers have spoken and it has been argued that if such a request were justified formally in a proper manner, it should be decided by the courts concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u11	Minister, I see you're also Senator Czerwiński... Maybe the answer will be consistent...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions. The first concerns the procedure. Will there be a special search procedure running? Because to return something, you have to find something first. I mean, demand a refund. First of all, will you have additional resources? Secondly, do you create any, I don't know, a team or just a search procedure, or are we stuck with existing methods and means of searching? And the second point, more general. Well, culture isn't the only thing we've lost. I'm not talking about life and health anymore, but about material losses. In the wake of World War II. I remember, because I was the initiator of the 2004 Sejm Resolution, that this resolution ordered the government to sum up our war losses and simply to try, of course, if possible... or to put the issue of reparations formally when it comes to relations with the Germans. Did, at least in this first case, namely, regarding the estimation of our material war losses at all, not just cultural losses, anything move as regards the conduct of this government?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u13	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u14	I'll answer that. The law only applies to regulations between countries belonging to the European Union. As far as third countries are concerned, among others: Russia and Ukraine We have signed bilateral agreements on the restitution of cultural goods, on the search, on the negotiation of their recovery. With Russia, the situation has been so difficult that for almost 20 years there has been a very restrictive law which the Russians have adopted themselves and which actually prevents any restitution. They believe that everything they gained during World War II is in fact due to the Russian state, so on this issue talks are very difficult. The Russians largely interpret these works... It means that if cultural goods come from the territories of Germany and the countries collaborating with Germany, they simply cannot be given away, while they interpret the record of the countries collaborating with Germany very widely. Fortunately, they do not treat Poland this way, but e.g. treat the territory of the Free City of Gdańsk so. So what was taken to Russia from Gdansk is treated as a thing captured in the territory of the German state. We absolutely disagree with this interpretation, because it was a different entity of international law, and what happened after 1 September 1939 was also a form of occupation. As regards the problem of the Swedish flood and the olive peace of 1660, it was indeed in the olive treaty that the works plundered in the territory of the Republic of Sweden were to be returned. But the Polish state I'm talking about the First Republic of Poland simply didn't enforce this for 130 years of its existence. Today, this case is treated as a closed case. Returning to such deep restitution would mean great confusion, even in the international arena. Well, we know a dispute, very emotional, which is going on between Greece and Great Britain about sculptures from Parthenon. Egypt also sometimes sends signals that this is all that was taken from Egypt in colonial times, and what is decorated with great museums, e.g. European or American, should return to Egypt. These are very sensitive issues, which affect even political and interstate relations, which, in my opinion, are not solved only on a basis of good will or similar political gestures, could possibly be regulated in some way. But it doesn't indicate anything, and I don't think the National Gallery is getting rid of what it has out of Egypt or Greece, because these are the most valuable works in this museum. Unfortunately, the Swedes similarly treat what they have won during many 17th - century wars in Europe. As far as search procedures are concerned, apart from routine procedures, which are based on the fact that we have a special Department of Cultural Heritage overseas and the Loss of Wars. That's what this department's name is, which is a very important part of this department is looking for war losses... It's even a little detective work. We are simply following either signals, or directly different auction catalogues, which are announced together with the information that someone wants to sell some more works in various Western European countries or in the United States, we are also following increasingly digitalized collections published in the digital space of individual museums... Because they very often in this digital space begin to show what they have in the magazines, so not only what they have in the exhibitions, but also what they have in the magazines. And that allows us to penetrate these warehouses. Such information is increasingly available in the digital space. So this is a routine search activity, which brings more and better results. In recent years, there is actually no month in which we would not announce the recovery of a work just as a result of this kind of search. We also have social incentives in the form of a special ArtSherlock application, which is not by chance called that. Thanks to it, every Pole who cares about these issues visits the world, travels around the world and sees something interesting, will be suspicious in his mind that he may have come across a work that comes from Poland, maybe quickly on his mobile phone, in this application to see if it is in our catalogue of 63 thousand records and if it does not look like the work we are looking for. He can quickly inform us that it is worth some place or work to be interested in. As for the summary of our war losses, this is, well, a very sensitive issue. Recently, there has been such a discussion whether the Germans have certainly compensated us for these losses of war and whether the matter is legally settled, because there are a number of legal doubts about this. As far as the summary of war losses is concerned, it was made at the level of the capital city of Warsaw. We remember, it was still during Lech Kaczyński's presidency, and in fact this work was done. This summary, when it comes to the loss of Warsaw's capital city, is already there, only in fact it is waiting for a proper political moment to possibly return to it. I don't think this moment has happened yet. As for the overall summary of war losses, I am not exactly prepared to answer this question right now, and if the senator permits, we will give this answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u15	Thank you. Do you still want Senator Czerwiński to continue?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u16	If you don't mind, Minister... It is precisely one path that could help you recover some of the cultural goods that I can tell you, because I know at least one such case. It is about people who work in the West, especially in the former Federal Republic of Germany, and sometimes come across such Suppose this person is somehow employed by the owner of the apartment, and I know that there are cases. Do you not give any encouragement to these people that they, perhaps anonymously, would simply indicate such addresses? That's the first line. And the second point about the content of the bill. Well, there is one record that makes me anxious. Maybe we won't change that now, but think about it. In the definition of the good of culture carried out in violation of the law from the territory of the Republic of Poland, that is, art. 2 point 3, it is said that this is the good of culture which has been moved outside the territory of the Republic of Poland as a result of or in connection with the Second World War. But we have such cases that the territory of the Republic of Poland has moved, and the good remains in the same place. I'm sure it's in this case. it is Lithuania because it belongs to the European Union. Perhaps one day in the future there will be a much more serious case of Ukraine. The question is: is this definition wide enough to cover such cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u17	Mr. Senator, as far as the first issue is concerned, meetings or meetings of such an important state body as the Senate are being recorded, so I would like to ask for some information from the director of the department of Jack Miler, who is sitting there to help us reach people who can help us with the restitution of Polish cultural goods. As for the interpretation of this concept, either you will dispel the doubts of the Director, or our interpretation of this concept, and with what this entails, as we interpret it, we will provide the senator in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u18	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Thank you very much for understanding.]] Have a good trip. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Thank you.]] At present, the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jackowski would like you to come in here. [[Voices from the room: No questions asked.]] No questions. Thank you, Senator. We're moving on to the next stages. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your voice. As head of the Senate Committee on Culture, I am happy to welcome this bill. I like that there's a continuation in politics. The previous team, which I represent in a sense, failed to bring this law to an end for various reasons, but today it has already gained its place. And this bill is very important. I would like to thank the Ministry very much for this, because the discussion resulted in how huge the value of this law is. She is also very well received abroad, as a very precise, difficult bill, requiring various types of amendments in other laws. Mr. Principal Jack Miler and the whole crew, as always, thank you for your absolute professionalism. Our work with the Director has been going on for over 12 years, and I think this is a very good thing. By the way, I want to remind my fellow senators and all of us that when government laws come to us, it's easier to work, because, of course, this government path is, so to speak, more precise. Finally, I would just like to say that our committee is extremely important to me. The Senate in which I am presently is very often engaged in matters of Polish culture, Polish heritage. For all these initiatives and for our work, I thank my fellow senators very warmly. Remember, this is a priceless good. To conclude, if the marshal will allow me, I would like to express my thanks to Senator Andrzej Kobiak for his previous resolution, because it was on his initiative. Of course, it was going through our committee. We were able to acknowledge the merits of Mr Leon Janty-Połczyński's Polish country on the 150th anniversary of his birth. I believe that this thanks to Senator Kobiak should be made, and I did not have time to submit it in the proper manner. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for the opportunity to speak on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u20	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I hereby declare adjournment until 12.30. And before I close the discussion, of course, the list of speakers is exhausted. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 53 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u21	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Fire Protection Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 490 and the report of the Commission In print No 490 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you a report from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law on the amendment of the Fire Protection Act adopted by the Sejm on 21 April 2017. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 24 April 2017; Senate printing No 490. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration was held on 26 April 2017. The meeting was attended by invited guests, among others.: Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration was represented by the Secretary of State, Minister Jarosław Zieliński, Minister of State, and Mr Leszek Suski represented the Chief of State Fire Department; and Mr Maciej Telec represented a member of the General Board of Adam Nowak; the Senate Chancellery was represented by a member of the Legislative Office, Mr Maciej Telec. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski did not attend the meeting authorised to represent the applicants. I would remind you that this is a parliamentary project signed by 101 Members of Law and Justice. Now a few words about the purpose and subject matter of the bill. The Act of 21 April 2017 amending the Fire Protection Act amends the rules on the spending of funds for fire protection purposes. According to the current article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Fire Protection Act insurance companies are required to transfer 10% the sum of the proceeds obtained from compulsory fire insurance for specific fire protection purposes. In turn, it's your mouth. 1a in this provision, the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Department and the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland receive 50% each the amount transferred by insurance undertakings. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 of the amendment proposes the assignment of an article. 38 Act on Fire Protection of the New Sound, in the light of which all funds from insurance companies will first be sent to the Chief of the State Fire Service. Amended Article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 provides that insurance undertakings are required to transfer 10% to the Chief of State Fire Department the sum of the proceeds obtained from mandatory fire insurance for the justified needs of fire protection units, in particular to ensure the combat preparedness of those units, the construction and modernisation of guard facilities, scientific research and rationalisation activities in the field of fire safety and the prevention of other risks, and the promotion of fire safety. In turn, according to the new mouth. 2 the financial resources referred to in paragraph 2 of that provision. 1, the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Department transmits at: 50% Volunteer firefighters; 50% Fire protection units referred to in Article 1 15 paragraphs 1 and 8 of the Act. According to art. 2 new to the funds received and not communicated by insurance undertakings by the date of its entry into force, from the proceeds of compulsory fire insurance, new provisions will apply. The Act raises no legislative objections. There was one remark from the legislator that on the date of the entry into force of the law At the moment, it is stated that the Act enters into force 14 days after the date of publication of the Decree of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of 2 June 1999 on detailed rules for the allocation of funds exclusively for fire protection purposes and, consequently, there will be no implementing provisions allowing for the allocation of the measures referred to in Article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Fire Protection Act. It came down here that... maybe I'll say a little bit ahead of schedule, but I'd like to sum up the discussion in a few sentences. The Minister declared it to be a parliamentary project, and if the regulation had been prepared by the government, it would have been prepared immediately, and the parliamentary project... But the Minister said that the matter was clear and that this time would be enough to prepare... that this regulation would be prepared. But let us remember that the bill is to enter into force after 14 days from the day of the announcement. There's definitely not much time. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, coming from the parliamentary submission, was discussed at the committee meeting by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Minister Jarosław Zieliński. This law was discussed. Several senators spoke during the discussion. Perhaps I will give in order: Senators Piotr Florek, Andrzej Pajak, Krzysztof Mróz, Waldemar Sługocki, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Piotr Zientarski. Member of the Board of Directors of the TSOs, Mr Andrzej Nowak, also spoke... [[Voice from the room: Adam Nowak.]] Mr. Adam, I'm sorry. Mr. Adam Nowak, you're right. Thank you for making me feel better. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions and doubts were answered by the Minister and the Chief Inspector. I'll be right back. During the committee meeting, 2 proposals were tabled: Senator Piotr Florek submitted a motion to reject the bill, and Senator Krzysztof Mroz filed a motion for adoption without amendments. Both proposals have been put to the vote, but both the first and the second proposals have not received a majority. Result of the vote: 4:4. Conclusion. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 26 April 2017, the committee shall inform the Commission that none of the proposals put to the vote has received a majority of the votes. Print No 490 A provides both of these conclusions. And a few more words about the discussion that took place. As rapporteur, I would like to convey exactly what happened at the committee meeting. Minister Jarosław Zieliński has justified the request. He said the bill had the support of the government. It's a parliamentary project, but the government supports it. And he put forward some arguments as to why this law should be adopted. He talked, above all, about some consistency, about the fact that the chief has more knowledge and, therefore, if the funds go to him, they will be more coherent and better distributed. And the Minister gave an example here. He said that subsidies that were made to the General Board of the Association of Volunteers of the Fire Department of the Ministry of Fire as you know, since 2016. They don't go there any more, the former, the Minister explained it that way, better distributed. The Minister gave an example that they were sent to some units that had not received them before. I remind you that there are 16 000 200 units in Poland. The grants went there and were better distributed. Minister I think that's what you said. It has a lot of thanks for the fact that these measures have actually been transferred. You said it was better if the grant was distributed directly. With regard to money which is not budgetary resources 'Cause the money from the fire protection insurance companies, the ones that affect, isn't budget resources. According to the Act since 1997, i.e. for the last 20 years, they have been distributed in half, i.e. about 20 million had to distribute the central management of the TSO and 20 million had the chief commandant. The Minister stated here that in 1991 and 1997 the funds were allocated differently and now he wants to go back to the way it was in those years. And here's the thing: the Chief Executive of the Volunteer Fire Association has so far had in its part resources, which are not budget money, it is about half of those 10%. He decided how these measures were distributed. But it wasn't the board that decided that... The procedure was so... We know what it looks like in volunteer firefighters, what election looks like. There are representatives in the municipalities, in the county, in the voivodship board and in the central board of TSOs. The funds were distributed to different voivodships in appropriate proportions, depending on how many volunteer fire services were there. Because something had to be accepted, you had to adopt some method of distribution. And that's the method that's been adopted. Something's got to stick to. That these measures will be directed more or less in such a way. Further, individual boards, starting with municipal and district boards, had these resources. These were measures that supported various kinds of activities. These were funds that were spent, among others. for purchases and were combined with other measures. Because they're not the only means. We know that as far as financial responsibility is concerned, the municipality must first and foremost secure the resources for the operation of the TSOs. These funds went there, they were combined with other means and it was possible to make various purchases. The Minister said it would be better now, because down there they know better how to distribute these resources. You gave an example, you said, Minister. ♪ I'd just say it ♪ That it wasn't the voivodeship board, not Mr. President Pawlak... They're upstairs, so they don't know better. They know better downstairs. If the fire chief has the resources at his disposal, it's better because they'll know better downstairs. Well, here, when it comes to volunteer firefighters, it's the same thing. The distribution took place from the bottom up, through representatives, because in voluntary firefighters people are selected for individual boards. The discussion at the committee meeting looked like some of the senators thought that the new distribution system that the Members are proposing would be better, that it would be better if the chief gets the money and he distributes it in its entirety... I mean, he gets the 10%. , but still, it will still allocate 50% to the TSO and 50% For other purposes, he'll decide. And the other part of the senators was definitely in favour of not changing what's been going on for a long time, for 20 years. Everybody's here. This is the opinion, I will not... maybe I will present my opinion in the discussion, but as rapporteur I would not like to... Yeah, but there are generally two ways we're talking about here. And, uh, let me recap... The Minister also said that one environment You described them as an environment of intense green color. You have mastered them with these means, and this is not good, so it would be better if they were sent to the Chief of the State Fire Department, because he would know better. And the sentences, as I said, are divided, the result of the vote is 4:4 and the Senate will have to take a stand. I would like to remind you that there are 2 proposals: the first proposal of a committee that did not receive a majority is a motion for rejection of the law, and the second proposal for adoption of a law without amendments, which also did not obtain a majority, so it will depend on our discussion, our vote. Thank you, so much for the committee's report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u23	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u24	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you whether there has been a relingualism in this report, or whether the structure of the voluntary fire brigade was sufficiently explained at the committee meeting. Because the Senator rapporteur was kind enough to say that the funds were received by the Chief Firefighter's Board, which is not true, because they received funds from the Ministry of Volunteer Firefighters. [[Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Every volunteer fire department is a stand-alone unit... [[Yes.]] ...not all voluntary firefighters are part of the union, so the current amendment can change this situation. Was it a slip of the tongue, or was the structure of the voluntary fire brigade not sufficiently explained at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u25	Of course, I used a shortcut here, it's about a relationship. The Minister also said on this subject, he said that when it comes to voluntary firefighters, this is a case without precedent that this particular association receives these funds. Here, during the discussion... Mr Waldemar Slugocki spoke on this subject, as I recall, and gave another example. 'Cause the minister said it was the only case like this, except for the agricultural chambers. As I recall, 2% of agricultural tax is passed on to agricultural chambers. I even remember the amounts that were in the voivodships, but on a national scale it's probably a similar amount when it comes to voluntary firefighters. Senator Piotr Zientarski also gave another example, I think it was the Association of the Polish Community. You probably know better that the funds are also transferred there. So it's not the only case, that's what happened. And rightfully, as you said, of course, the board of directors...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u26	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I have a question: was there a speech at the committee's meeting about the amount in absolute amounts, the 10%? ? That's the first part of my question. And two: was there a question about what these measures had been spent on by voluntary firefighters so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u28	What's the amount of... Yes, at the committee meeting, I think you're the chief, and the minister said, it's about the amount no more... 'Cause it's so precise... As you know, these are compulsory insurances, insurances for which the respective municipalities are responsible, and that is the amount, those 10% , already divided into voluntary firefighters separately, and so far it has been, the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland and what you received the chief... It was about PLN 20 million. So we're talking about the amount of about 20 million zlotys. There was a speech... As I recall, a representative of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland, perhaps a member of the voluntary fire department who was present at the meeting, said, among others. the fact that these measures have so far been transferred, inter alia, to the starting uniforms. Well, it's a patriotic, cultural, etc. According to the changes discussed here, there's probably no way we're gonna be able to get those exit uniforms... The Minister said it was for work uniforms and so on. it will be possible to allocate these funds. And they were, among other things. for training. This was mostly about medical training, first aid. This money was also passed on to young people. And since there will now be another system for distributing this money, there will be trouble if they are not devoted to what they have been allocated to so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I also have questions about the committee meeting. I have a few of these questions and I'll try to share them. You pointed out here, during the discussion of the committee's meeting, that during the sitting by some senators, there were arguments that the way the funds were available to date was good, and it was good. In this connection, I have a question as to whether during the committee meeting Mr Jarosław Zieliński, or whether Chief Suski gave some examples of where this spending of funds raised some doubts. Were there such examples, or do you remember? That's one of my questions. The second question also concerns the spending of funds from the CSR envelope, the way in which these funds are spent. During the committee meeting, did the representative of the State Fire Department, General Suski, or did Deputy Minister Zieliński indicate how he was being spent? Is this a public procurement procedure, or are these measures that are subject to some kind of control, verification? Alternatively, who controlled these measures in the current legal state? And what will be the effect of introducing the amendment in question, putting these funds at the disposal of the State Fire Department? Will this strengthen this control or not? Thank you. That's it for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u31	Yes, indeed, I think you're the Chief Chief, as I recall, giving examples, but the Minister may also, I don't remember exactly. On the expenditure of funds. There was talk of snakes that were bought, that they could be... The Lord gave an example that these snakes were sold more expensive by the board. I think we were talking about uniforming, too. Well, there were examples. In turn, someone else from the senators said that such examples can also be given when it comes to the State Fire Department, etc. If there was any abuse here, that someone was buying something that was more expensive, and he had that knowledge, well, then you have to inform the proper organs. There was talk of the Kalisz industrial plants, the so-called. The helmets were also mentioned in the uniforms. And snakes, as I recall. There were of course examples given that you could buy something cheaper, and some board in some voivodship... I don't remember exactly. I think we were talking about Wielkopolska. That's where we talked about buying one car. This car cost probably 800,000 zlotys, as I recall, and the board of directors of Wielkopolska in Poznań counted on it some commission, probably 10,000 zlotys, for doing this operation. As far as I know, it is possible that this was the case, because with such a purchase, certain actions are taken, certain costs are borne. We don't know this case well enough to say here whether this commission was needed, right, etc. I'm just saying, at the committee meeting, such comments were made. As far as control of these measures is concerned, you remember, Mr. Senator, that we discussed this at the committee meeting. As far as the budget section is concerned, we all know how it is, but as regards the part related to the spending of funds by voluntary fire departments, there are also statutory checks, among others. NIK inspections As far as I recall, it was said that once every two years they were carried out by the Ministry of Labour and the regional audit of the chambers of accounts. Of course, these are not such strict measures. public, like the ones at your disposal, but there is control over the spending of these funds. On individual voivodship boards such control is of course carried out, so these measures are checked. Sure, and that's where the shortcomings happen. We can say here, of course, that somewhere in some voivodship there were some comments about control, but we might as well address these comments to many other units, including the budget, because during the audit, especially in the case of the Supreme Audit Chamber, mostly some comments appear. So, of course, these are measures that are subject to a certain control, but I think it's more important than that. I will add my opinion here on what was not mentioned in the committee's meeting. However, these measures are reviewed several times. These volunteers operate through their representatives in the powiats and voivodship boards of TSOs. There's full control of these expenses, there's every penny being watched on one side and on the other. And when it comes to the chief general, he has of course voivodship fire chiefs, he has district fire chiefs, but this is quite different, it's quite different direction of spending these funds. That surveillance looks different there. It is not so direct, democratic, civic o, it may even be a better expression Nor is it held by representatives, as is the case in local governments. After all, we all know that it was good that there was a change in Poland in 1990. Self-governments can spend money better because they go through it a few times. And from the head chief's point of view... The chief said that when it came to the funds from the grants that had previously been transferred to the board of directors, he had allocated them to probably 5,000 units. Well, it's hard to expect the Chief Chief, especially if there are thousands of units out there, to know where to send these grants, and to be able to control it. So, of course, we can always argue for and against here and say that this check was not quite effective, but each of us, each of us, each of the ladies and each of the senators, if only he knew about any irregularities, he also knows who should be notified, informed. You can always make a check and check it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u32	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I would like to continue with this thread that you initiated by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, because he is very important for spending money. This is important not only from the point of view of the State Fire Department, but above all from the point of view of volunteer firefighters. You said something very important, Mr. Senator, namely that the amount used by the voluntary fire department every year is 20 million. You have listed three main areas in which this money is spent, namely uniforms, training, but also youth development. We are aware of the functions of voluntary firefighters in these small environments, in rural areas or in small towns. I have a question for you, Senator. Voluntary fire department is a public benefit organization. Does the voluntary fire department report and make it publicly available? Can each of the citizens of the Polish state read in detail such an annual report, including very precisely the expenditure that the environment is implementing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u34	Mr. Senator, I don't really recall whether this particular topic was discussed at the committee meeting, but as far as public benefit organisations are concerned, we all know that they are controlled, including. I think the Minister of Labour controls these expenses. So it's not like they're out of control. I'm sure they're controlled. What I said is only one direction, because they are such organizations, but there is full control here from all sides, among others. the control of the NIK, which was also mentioned at the meeting, so it is controlled. Probably in a slightly different way this check is carried out. As far as public funds are concerned, budgetary resources are slightly different, but the fact is that they are not money that is not controlled. The fact that some organizations are getting grants and that these grants have to be settled later on is a normal matter. So that there is control over the funds transferred to associations in the form of grants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Hamerski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question. Is the amount of PLN 20 million that we are talking about for voluntary firefighters all 20 million go to voluntary firefighters, or in some part they are consummated as part of the current activity, for the maintenance of the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Firefighters?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u37	I think at the committee meeting... I don't recall us discussing this. But, of course, the 20 million is here, half-fifty, just like it used to be. It goes there and is dedicated to specific purposes. These objectives are clearly set out in the Regulation. The regulation to be amended... The provision in the Act so far laid down that the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall lay down the detailed rules for the allocation of appropriations by means of a regulation, and will now provide that by means of a regulation he shall determine the manner and procedure for the allocation of the appropriations in question. So it's been clearly stated so far that it has to be used for the operation of fire protection units and in accordance with the regulation. So if the regulation now... We do not know what this regulation will look like, because only after this law has been passed It is not possible to issue a regulation unless there is a law, the Minister will issue it. Then we will know how and how the allocation of funds will be. But of course these are fire protection targets, and that's the statutory record. There are no other targets here. I want to make it clear that this is intended for fire protection, because that's what the bill says.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have two questions. First. Were there representatives of volunteer guards at the committee meeting? If they were and expressed a positive opinion, then what they argued, and if they were negative, I am also curious about what they argued with them. What was the opinion of the guards, and what were the arguments? This is the first case. And two. Did you discuss your purpose at the committee meeting? Please explain to me whether the main objective has been presented and whether you have discussed it. Now the money goes to the chief and to the voluntary fire department, which means I understand that the volunteer fire department will have to travel between Warsaw and the town of X or correspond to support. What was the main idea, what was the main purpose of establishing such a way of money flow? What was the argument? Did you discuss the way money flows at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u40	At the meeting of the committee there was a representative of the Association of Volunteer Guards of the Republic of Poland, a member of the main board, Mr. Adam... [[Adam Nowak.]] Yes, Mr. Adam Nowak. ...and he was also taking the floor. He said that the introduction of these changes has no substantive justification that the state that was so far was good has worked out in practice. The Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland gave you such a letter, and we received this letter. I've got them right in front of me right now. He also said that this system had been functioning properly so far. And as for the charges that were filed, the constitutional charges, the charges of violation by the law... I will not read all this, but the point was that, first of all, the project is incompatible with the Constitution because it violates the principles of the protection of rights rightly acquired. Secondly, it is incompatible with the Constitution because it violates the principles of protection of interests in progress, etc. 5 points are mentioned here as regards the violation of the Constitution. Thirdly, the representative of the main board said that the project fundamentally infringes the principle of subsidiarity as regards associations. So that the main arguments were that something had worked well so far and that the changes now being made are unconstitutional and violate the principle of subsidiarity. Those were the three comments. Are there going to be trips from the CSR to the HQ now? It is likely to be expected that such actions will take place, but I remind you that the Chief of the State Fire Service has in individual voivodships commanders of the State Fire Service. I would also remind you that in Poland we have probably 30,000 firefighters of the State Fire Department At most, the Chief will correct me if I didn't say exactly. For example, when it comes to volunteers, it is estimated that there are about 700,000 volunteers. Of course, the State Fire Department. I will not tell you, but this was also mentioned at the committee meeting. She couldn't have handled it if we didn't have a great system that we have introduced in Poland, according to which voluntary firefighters support the State Fire Department. We also have a national rescue system that works well together. And among others. the funds that go for it are spent on and on those entities that are in the national system and those that are not in it. Therefore, that is probably the case, the decisive vote will be taken by the Chief of the State Fire Department. If anybody wants to get information from the source and file a motion, it's de facto up to the chief. So far it has been so that, at different levels, through representatives of volunteers, representatives who were on board... There was a discussion, there were rules on what is important for the guards in a given year, what shopping, first and foremost, in which direction to go. So this is where the knowledge... Would it be better if the Chief Chief decides? Is his knowledge greater than the knowledge of volunteers who are at community level? This is a matter for discussion. The chief also gave an example when it comes to shopping, because before that, there was a question. Some volunteer fire department may have bought 30 outfits, and firefighters who actively... [[It was about the helmets.]] [[Helmets.]] The helmets? I think it was the same with the uniforms. I think the senator even asked that question. Now I remember. Those who go into action are only 15 or 16, and you buy everything. It's the same with uniforms. But I'd put another weight on it. Cultural, patriotic about what is happening in CSR at different levels. Therefore, I think that if there aren't so many volunteers who can go into action, it's also a matter of training. And here often, as I recall, there were issues of training at board meetings and the need to have resources. And as far as the first medical aid measures are concerned, these funds came mainly from the money that insurance companies were paying, and this was financed. So we need to balance whether we want to support everyone or if we want to support only some of the volunteer fire department units. For all the money, there is no doubt about it, because the needs are what they are. Well, one thing to admit: the system in Poland, when it comes to supporting voluntary guards, i.e. the national rescue system, functions correctly and here the actions are good. This has worked well so far, so for those members of the committee who thought that this change was unnecessary, it was not very understandable what it would change, what it would introduce a new one. Well, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, such a principle that, however, at a lower level, you have more knowledge on this subject... I understand that the headquarters of the State Fire Department doesn't know exactly how it is on different levels, but it's happening from bottom to top. Well, the Minister explained that it would happen now, but it will happen. by the District Commandant of the State Fire Service, the Regional Commandant of the State Fire Service, etc. So here is the issue of the whole policy, of this self-government, of what we think: is there going to be more State control over the spending of these funds, or should we leave a little room for such organisations to decide for themselves? Well, as the local government experience shows, this control of spending funds... The other way is much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u41	Thank you very much. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u42	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question because you and Senator Slugock have provoked me with your statements. In fact, during the meeting of the committee, a representative of the General Board of the Association of Voluntary Fire Guards, who argued that the system has been functioning correctly for many years, as you pointed out, Senator, for 20 years. I have a question: was there a discussion at the committee's meeting about... was there a thread on the 1991-1997 period? Did a representative of the General Board of the Association of Volunteers of the Fire Department make any comments about the period when these funds were centrally available, as proposed in this novel? Were there any objections? on the process of spending money? That's the first question. Second question I think Senator Majer picked up that thread here, too. During the committee meeting, did Minister Zieliński or the Chief Commandant indicate cases of voluntary firefighters not associated with the Association of Volunteer Firefighters? Has there been any mention of possible participation, participation in insurance measures, those 5% In fact, there's 10%. with insurance, but half of it goes to CSR... Was there any mention of whether, until now, these non-member entities could benefit from such funding? That's the second question. And my third question, if I may: during the committee meeting I don't know if you've discussed this before, but I don't think it's accurate enough... Wasn't one of the intentions of amending this law to make purchasing equipment cheaper? Were there any arguments raised by Minister Jarosław Zieliński or Chief Suski regarding tendering procedures and scale, so to speak, orders, that, in the case of central tendering, it would be possible to obtain lower prices, e.g. for firefighters' equipment, in relation to those prices that can now be obtained, so to speak, from the level of the TSO? That's the third question. And that's the last of my questions. Because it's still spoken here, we're turning around the subject of this novel, those about 20 million PLN per TSO. In the course of the committee's meeting, was there any mention of the amount of funding provided by the TSOs in previous years? What was the figure in 2015? Is this an amount inherited from the previous government or was it maintained the same or was it somehow increased? And how was this source of funding developed in the following years, the stream of funds that was directed to the TSOs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u43	As far as 1991 and 1997 are concerned, indeed, as the senator says, the change took place only in 1997. You remember the beginning of the change, 1990, you remember the Local Government Act, which was the date of 10 March 1990. It was the beginning, at first it was, and then there was a change. I think the Minister explained it in such a way that it was the PSL that ruled, the SLD, then the Platform, all together, so certainly about this intense green color... That is why this change took place in 1997. And that's how it worked for 20 years. Nobody's had any objections so far. on the functioning, and now it has turned out that the group of Members of the Law and Justice, because this is not a government project, has reported this change. So that for the last 20 years it's been working like this, and actually in this first period... It is written in the Act that insurance funds go this way, there is a statutory record and so far it has not been questioned. The first change concerned a grant, which the Minister also spoke about; this came in last year. The money that was directed in the form of grants was with the chief, while the funds that are not... public funds under the law were directed there. It's a change. Was it better between 1991 and 1997? I'm sure the Minister said... Well, I don't recall it, but he probably said it was better. Over the 20 years we've had, the conclusions... Well, so far no one has specifically reported it, but a group of Members have made this request. Now, about... [[Excuse me... may I ask, Mr. Marshal? That's a specific question. Did a representative of the General Board of the Volunteers' Association have reservations about the 1991-1997 period, or did he raise any objections, say that during that period it was wrong that this old system was, I don't know, inefficient, not as it should have been? In fact, yes or no? Did he make any comments regarding the previous period?]] Mr. Senator, I don't recall a representative at the committee meeting... That was the end, that was the last speech, and the committee meeting was very long because it took, like, an hour and a half. It was extremely long, given that the change is 3 articles and art. 3 concerns only the date of entry into force of the Act, i.e. it all fits on one page. So the discussion was long, and the representative, a member of the main board, spoke at the very end. I don't recall if he was referring to how it worked in 1991 and 1997, 20 years ago. It's been 20 years since then, and I'm sure it's hard to relate to that today. We'd have to get back to the materials. Why this change was introduced at the time. And when it comes to the association of TSOs, the Minister said that maybe not everyone wants to be part of the voluntary fire department, the association. And so there are some signals that... are they, I don't know, hard to relate to, I didn't set that up. If anyone is outside the union and would like to receive this money, and it is the union that divides the money, so, as the Minister said, he wouldn't get that money if he was out of the union. Yeah, but here's the thing, I think all the volunteer guards It's, I don't know, 16,000 200 units, almost all of which belong to the union, only a few not. Well, there's a question of what happens if someone doesn't belong to a relationship, how do these grants share again, why they're supposed to get, what's the justification... and so on. Well, that's a broad topic to discuss. So far this has been shared. You were talking about shopping, Mr. Senator. Well, the chief gave examples that you could mention something about snakes, there was something else, I can't remember exactly what to buy cheaper, that these purchases could have been made cheaper in some way. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Public Procurement Act applies to all, the rules are clear in this respect and the rules have to be followed. If someone doesn't follow these rules, buys something more expensive at a higher price than the one that can be purchased on the market, then... there are proper services to give them that information. So that such examples were given by the Minister. But it would have to be said here to the end, where and how, at what price and why it happened... And eventually you'd have to learn from it, because it can't be. It is known that shopping is being carried out... There was talk of helmets, as I recall, that maybe you could buy them cheaper, but the head office owns two companies, two companies, one of which makes helmets, the other one makes uniforms, as I recall... When it comes to helmets, I know their case pretty well. So if there are, for example. helmets cheaper, if there's a foreign producer or something, that's good... Well, it just so happens that the board of directors has a stake in it. But that doesn't mean he can buy more expensive! On the market, it's... Market rules apply, rules apply to all, so that... Maybe you need to be happy that there is a Polish producer here and that we have units that produce a given product, so that we do not have to spend money on buying it abroad, but there is always a question of price, and besides the Public Procurement Act applies to everyone here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u44	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I just want to ask you a question. 'Cause I was just... Mr. Senator, I'd like to explain. Because now, in your answer to my question, you use the wording for the second time: the Public Procurement Act applies to everyone. Yes? So I'm supposed to understand that voluntary firefighters are carrying out proceedings under the Public Procurement Law. Yes? Is that what I'm saying? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u45	I don't know exactly how this... That may be what the minister or chief of police is going to answer, because on this subject... [[As far as I'm concerned, Senator...]] ...on this topic of discussion does not... [[As far as I'm concerned, you're wrong, because in this present state, voluntary firefighters aren't subject, the board of directors...]] But everyone has to carry out... [[All right, thank you.]] Everyone has to conduct proceedings because it's impossible for them to buy something that is more expensive. And as a result, this kind of procedure... This is the money that the Chief Executive of the Volunteer Fire Association gets, he has to settle out of this money, here the rules apply to all the same. There's no discussion here. You were talking about... I don't know, maybe the Minister or Chief Chief will explain the matter here to the end, because we didn't talk about it so much at the committee meeting. And I don't know if there's anything else, Senator... I don't remember, and I don't know if I answered all the questions. [[I asked about the amount of funds, whether during the committee meeting there was a mention of measures in 2015, 2016, 2017...]] Yeah, there was talk of heights... Yes, the amount of funds was mentioned. The Minister said that PLN 32.5 million in the previous budget were left by the predecessors, that I think the State... The Minister said that the budget had been revised, that additional funds had been transferred to the operation of the TSOs, that this amount had increased by another 3 million in 2017, that it was 39 million, and that he was also talking about other measures that are being transferred, but I do not remember in detail these amounts that were mentioned. As a matter of fact, as I recall, either you are the Chief Commandant, or the Minister said that there was an increase in funds for the CSR units in 2017, probably 13%, if I recall. He said that simply, as is the case every year, there is a certain increase per TSO unit and that in 2017 this increase is around 13%. The Minister also talked about the expenditure on modernisation, about the fact that, in total, over the years... The amount for the next 4 years will probably be around 500 million, including the resources that are available for the operation of the TSOs. So that, in general, a certain increase is maintained, these measures are larger every year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! A few questions. I'll start with the ones that came from the discussion you were having with Senator Grabowski. Because it's hard to call questions, it was rather an exchange of views between you. But ad rem. Was it not possible, Mr. Senator, at the committee meeting about who is being supplied with the helmets of the State Fire Department? Was it not by chance that in Poland there is one manufacturer of helmets, that is, this plant in Kalisz, which was already mentioned here, and the State Fire Department and voluntary purchase of helmets from the same manufacturer? That's the first question. The second question is general. From this I should de facto begin to formulate my questions. Mr Senator, was there no mention of why this bill was prepared by a group of Members, not by the department responsible for administration and home affairs? Was there any debate on what the grounds were that it was a group of Members... It has already become a custom in my view in this term of office, that it is mostly Members who are the initiators, for which their glory is, of course, in accordance with the laws of the law. The point is, why wasn't it a government project? The next question is about finance. You said, Mr. Senator, that there was a positive opinion of the board of the Volunteer Fire Department. And did any negative signals come from district or voivodship commands that would discredit this way of financing voluntary firefighters? Are there any signals like that? Did you discuss this at the committee meeting? And one last question. I think I'll discuss this with the Minister. Was there a speech, Mr. Senator, about some amount, some percentage of volunteer firefighters left behind? I don't know, maybe 2%, 3% To preserve the subjectivity of the Association of Volunteer Firefighters? The point is to make such prosaic issues as for example. uniforming could be solved as part of voluntary firefighters so that they could react quickly and flexibly. Was there a discussion on this subject, and if it was, what were the speeches? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u48	I'll start with the senator's last question. I do not recall the discussion at the committee meeting considering whether this participation should be reduced instead of 5%. e.g. 2% or 1%. The draft submitted by the Members is clear and it says that all the money goes first to the Chief of the State Fire Department. Not as far as it has been, i.e. 50% split And then they're distributed. So I don't remember unless I'm wrong, but I tried to listen. In order for the meeting to be about some changes in these percentages. No one has tabled such an amendment because there are only two proposals I have told you about. As for the helmet manufacturer, I don't recall... I didn't check it out, it was clearly not said at the committee meeting, but I think that Kalisz bets are the only ones in Poland that produce helmets. As far as I know, they make helmets that meet all the conditions... They are sold not only in Poland. The question of shopping... Well, anyone can buy. I think the State Fire Department is also buying... But it's up to you, Chief Chief, to be able to tell if he's ordering helmets at these kale plants. A group of Members... Well, Mr. Senator, we all know that most of the projects that are currently going to the Sejm are parliamentary projects. For a clear and simple reason In such a case no consultation or agreement shall be required. You know, it's been like this for hours or so. I don't remember what the record is, but maybe 20 hours... it took six or eight hours for the bill to pass through the Sejm and the Senate. So it's all possible. This is a little bit of a shortcut, and the law thus adopted, as it turns out, is not always good. The senator was commenting just now, too. Let me remind you of the bill that the senator introduced... This bill was a senate project, and it had to be improved. So it's not the right way. I don't know why you're in such a hurry, because when it comes to insurance measures involving this group of volunteer firefighters... Why do they have to... Why does this bill have to enter into force two weeks after its announcement? Why is it carried out during the financial year... Those are other things, these are distractions. But we know that when it comes to parliamentary projects, that's pretty much what it looks like. And you asked the senator if there were any signals... I don't know about that kind of signal. The chief was just giving examples, just examples of CSR when it comes to shopping. But were there any negative things, or was there something wrong? There are bodies that control it, but at the committee meeting, no one informed us of such signals.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u50	Mr Marshal, in the first sentence of the explanatory memorandum to the contested law, it is stated that: "The project will allow rational and efficient spending of funds for fire protection purposes, taking into account the needs of the national rescue and fire protection system. The regulation will also allow even support for all fire protection units. Please state whether any analyses and studies have been carried out on the basis of which it has been concluded that the previous or previous financial allocation has been inefficient and inefficient.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u51	As I recall, there was no mention at the committee meeting that any analyses had been carried out. As regards the consistency of the system, etc. I've already spoken here, in the meantime, reporting on committee meetings. There are the opinions of the Members who have submitted this proposal that there will be greater coherence if all this money goes through the Chief Inspector that he will have more opportunities. On the other hand, it is a matter of what I have told you, that these voluntary guards also function bottom-up through their representatives, etc. And they know how to spend that money, too. So I don't recall... but it is a question to the Minister whether such analyses were carried out before this change was introduced. Although this is a parliamentary project, there may be a problem with the Minister having such analyses or having them carried out. It's a parliamentary project that's being processed quickly, so there's only such general justification as you quoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I will quote, of course, not all of it, just a piece of the report by NIK from April 2009, which was the beginning of your term of office, but already running... It was a report on the control of the use of subsidies from the state budget for voluntary firefighters. Very similar topics... And the most important part: The audit showed that the Chief Executive Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland, setting out the form and scope of implementation commissioned by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of the task of assisting in the preparation of voluntary fire services units for the organisation and conduct of rescue operations, did not take advantage of the possibility to cooperate with the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Service. And now for a simple question, with a simple, unofficial language. Don't you think that, among other things. did this type of NIK reports contribute to the creation of this project? The point is that in securing the needs of individual volunteer guards, the volunteer fire department did not take into account the needs that the Chief of State Fire Service saw. I think that's what this is about. It's not that these snakes look beautiful or dry on the barn, it's that they're good at putting out fires. This is the main objective of fitting and financing voluntary firefighters.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u54	Mr. Senator, of course we can select fragments of the NIK control reports from individual years. If we were to look at the control of the National Firefighter's NIK, we might be able to pick out some fragments. What was the co-operation like? This year, NIK assessed that the cooperation between the Chief Executive and the State Fire Commandant looked as it was included in the evaluation. What you were talking about was whether or not the chief of state fire department, when we talk about the national rescue system, when we talk about the many units that are in the national rescue system, when we talk about the number of volunteer firefighters in Poland, which is 16,000 200, etc... Well, it's a matter of determining whether the Chief Fire Department will have more knowledge by managing individuals from the top. The units are over 16,000, so he has no knowledge, I'd say, direct. The Minister said here that the main management, the various regional boards and Pawlak are upstairs, that they are not downstairs, and they know better downstairs. I agree that they know better downstairs. And so far, everything has been going downhill for volunteer firefighters. There were plans that... Consider the fact that it concerns municipalities and districts, that there is a certain control that there are also many volunteers from the fire department, as well as the mayors, that they work there, function, know the needs and know what shopping should possibly be... Not much, they cover these expenses to a large extent or they do financial assembly for individual units. The results of the checks, as in the case of checks, are always... There is a position on cooperation here. Action should be continued if such cooperation has not taken place in a given year. This must not affect the functioning of the units that are in the national rescue system and which are on their way to every call. We must remember that the State Fire Department is only the core. The nearest scene is usually volunteer firefighters, which is why we should trust them to work. Top-down management, that's centralism... It's a small amount of money, 20 million zlotys. These are only 3 articles, 1 card, and you can see what this interest is right now. Money has been split differently so far and there has to be a change. And there's a question to the Minister about what this change is going to bring, what it's going to do. What the Minister presented when it came to consistency... On the one hand, the Chief Chief has more insight into the system, and on the other hand, it all looks very different if you look at it from the bottom, because there is much more knowledge there. That's all I can say about it. That's what happens when you're in control. That if errors are shown, they must be addressed. I do not know what the position was in this regard, but the chief was sure to answer questions about coherence and cooperation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski? [[Voices from the hall: He was, he was.]] [[Maybe again.]] Again? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, thank you very much for your statement, because you said they knew better downstairs. It's like it's all coming together. At the committee meeting, I understand, there was a member of the fire department. Tell me if they've arrived at the committee meeting... Have any feedback received from any of the more than 16,000 volunteer firefighters? Have there been any opinions that have challenged this change?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u57	I would just like to inform you that the Minister has a meeting of the Council of Ministers at 3 p.m. and he will have to leave us. As far as I'm concerned, you can ask questions for another four hours even, but the minister will simply be gone. I just wanted to let you know. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u58	There was only one representative of the TSO at the committee meeting. That's a question for the president. I don't know if they were invited, but they didn't come or were absent for other reasons. This is a parliamentary project, and we know what the procedure is about it. Well, 700,000 volunteers from the fire department didn't come because they wouldn't fit in here, but I suspect if they needed them, they'd probably come and take part in this meeting because they're divided. The Minister and the Chief Chief have an opinion, but we also talk about it directly with... After all, the Senator is also aware of the activities of the voluntary fire department in his region. You know how it works, what it looks like. So that there were no other opinions, but you yourself, Mr. Senator, know that this is the result of this very procession. If it were a government project, to which these opinions are required, they would be here by now, but we proceed in such a way that we take shortcuts unfortunately. Probably those opinions weren't because there wasn't enough time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u59	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, also for seeing my hand. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! It was Senator Czerwiński who inspired me to formulate this question. I think we're dealing with a kind of paradox, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. I would like to remind you that there was a time when the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Department was also a member of the Board of Volunteer Fire Departments. That's one thing. And secondly, I would like to ask the senator what I think, if I remember correctly, please correct me, perhaps, by the representative of the national board of TSOs, Mr Adam Nowak. The main commandant of the State Fire Department is invited to the meetings of the Board of Directors of the TSOs when the funds are allocated to voluntary fire services within the framework of these 10% That is 20 million zlotys. Am I remembering correctly, Senator? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u61	Yes, I recall that the Chief Chief told me that he once attended such a meeting of the Board of Directors. I'll just say it's been similar so far when it comes to voivodship commanders. I myself had the opportunity to sit on such a board in the Wielkopolska Voivodship and I know that the commander of the State Fire Department has always participated in these meetings. These things have been discussed, they have been discussed. The best solutions were always sought in individual voivodships. These measures were available, and they were looking for a way to ensure that these funds were effectively distributed. And that's what it's been like so far, but... well, that's my opinion. I'm the rapporteur, so I don't want to talk about it anymore right now. Maybe in my speech, I'll talk about it, 'cause as far as I know, it's changed a little bit now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u62	Thank you very much. We have therefore exhausted the list of questions for the senator. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your attention. I have approached your marshal to take account of the fact that at 3 p.m. there is a meeting of the Council of Ministers at which I must attend. There was less and less time, there were various questions for me... And I wanted to stand by that speaker and answer these questions. As long as I can, I don't know, so if you'll excuse me. We sent a motion yesterday to the Senate Marshal to move this point to tomorrow, but the Senate bureau did not take this request into account. These deadlines have therefore been imposed. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the first part of Senator Flork's speech on the subject of the debate, I was built because the senator really spoke like the rapporteur of the committee. But only for a while, because in the second part of his introductory speech, the senator unfortunately fell out, and then, in answer to the senators' questions, he was completely out of place in this role. It is a pity, because I thought that in the Seym I could set a good example, as it is different in the Senate, as it is better, because the rapporteur is impartial and so on. But then the senator said he couldn't be impartial because he sat on the Regional Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards, probably in the Wielkopolska voivodship, as far as I know. I knew that before. It's a good thing you said it yourself, because that's the question I'd have to ask. So here, it's hard to talk about the impartiality of looks. A few things are important here. First of all, actually... Maybe it's different. This is a parliamentary project. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Slugocki. Please do not question this, because if you want to take away the right to legislative initiative, then you want to change the constitution. Well, that's not the mode, really. Do not take away the right of initiative from Members, because then the Sejm would cease to be a Sejm. That maybe the government... Yes, he could, but a group of Members reported this draft. The government supports this project. At the time of government - You're He also referred to this. The long, because 8-year-old coalition PO-PSL was a lot of such situations. I've been in the Seym all this time, and I remember, I don't have amnesia. As I say, there were a lot of such situations when it seemed that it was the government that should direct some projects, and they were led by members of that PO-PSL coalition. Please remember that time so that there will be no unnecessary discussion, because it is a waste of time for this. With regard to justification, from the point of view of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Government, the most important thing is that, after this change, there will be a much greater possibility of building a coherent fire protection system, a system for which the Chief of State Fire Department is responsible in the country. Let us remind you that this is also the head of civil protection of the country, this is the same organ. The efficiency of this system, its potential and capacity in voivodships or cities, powiats are the responsibility of the commanders of voivodships, places and districts. Notice that from top to bottom, this is from the chief general to the district commander responsible for this system... None of them had an impact on how the funds we are talking about, the write-off from insurance companies, will be spent on what they will be directed at, how they will be used. None of these commandants just had any influence on it. It's about getting those chiefs to do that. Yes, Mr. Senator, these measures are not budgetary resources, but these are resources. as if mandatory, resulting from a statutory write-off, a write-down by a law established by a parliament. These are not private funds, these are not donations, these are measures which result from a write-off, respectively, in a law defined and governed in such a way as this law prejudices. As far as I know, General Leszek Suski, present at the beginning of April, came to the Board of the General Volunteers' Association of Fire Departments, also in connection with the discussion which is taking place and which concerned the genesis of this law itself, asking him to obtain information on what was the last year, 2016 and for which units these funds were intended, which were purchased for, where and for whom. It's been a month, more than a month. I was just asking him about it. He didn't get it. How, ladies and gentlemen, can we build a coherent fire protection system if the chief doesn't have that knowledge? Not to mention the fact that it doesn't have any influence on it. There's not even an answer. And, Dear Senators, it is not about who is invited to listen to how this money is shared or not invited, it is important who decides and who is responsible and who is responsible for the consequences of these decisions. So this consistency of the system is a fundamental issue. For me, as a fire protection system supervisor, fire department, this is a major issue. And even if there weren't any other threads here that I would support in a moment, for this project to be consistent, more rational to build the potential of this system, and it will be when one body, seeing the needs of the whole country, having the proposals submitted, will be able to consider and decide that. Now, Mr. Senator, I address Senator Flork as Senator of the rapporteur. There's one more thing about memory. Memory is important. Then you got so messed up in those answers... You also quoted me, but not exactly. If you don't know the quote, don't pretend you're quoting. Because you've been twisting everything. This discussion... I don't want to refer to other threads because there was a couple of them, but I'm going to refer to one thing, because it touched me very much, and it touched me not personally, but for reasons of substance. It is a discussion whether the mountain or the bottom knows better. I, on the Senate committee, have responded to the charge that so far it has been downhill. It's supposed to be bottom-up. It's been decided, and now it's going to be topside, because the chief... I replied then that, as far as I know, the Chief Executive of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards is not a bottom-up organization, but this is the top hat, the central one. Just as the chief is the central body, but the authority responsible for the efficiency of this system, so this cap, I apologize for the colloquial expression, I take it in quotes, the Association of Voluntary Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland is this organization... this sort of central structure. And that was my answer. If you want to quote, quote as it sounds, not argue over what I said. So it's better not to quote, if you can't remember, than twist. Please don't twist my words. I'm asking you to do this through mutual respect for yourself. Here's another thing. You say you don't know what that's like with control. You know, Mr. Senator. You should know. The Supreme Audit Chamber has the right to control non-public bodies, associations in so far as the use of budget grants is concerned. You yourself said that these funds are not a budget grant, so the Supreme Audit Chamber does not control these funds and their spending. Nor does any other authority control them because they have no authority to do so. So, what are you defending? You're defending a situation that keeps that money out of control. Please do not tell stories about this bottom-up control and do not call local governments as examples, because pathology in this sphere will find a lot and you know it very well. Please do not invoke such a formula that these volunteer fire workers will control themselves and this will be the best control. This is obviously a misunderstanding. This is a complete misunderstanding. These measures, which come from citizens and companies, must be under control. And they will be under control when they are controlled by the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Service, because this is the state body and all the resources at his disposal are subject to regular checks every year. Supreme Audit Chamber It's in control. That's not enough. Information can be requested by the Sejm, the Senate. You're welcome. This is a state, this is a state body. These are the funds that will be spent by the public body. It'll be clear, it'll be transparent, it'll be clear. And you'll be able to find out everything, not like now, that the Chief Chief is asking, and the Chief doesn't want to answer, I don't know why. I did not enter during the discussion either in the Sejm or later in the Senate Committee on these matters, which you spoke of by the Chief Commandant, concerning the regularity or irregularities of spending. If we don't have information, we only get some scraps of information about it, but in order to assess it responsibly, completely comprehensively, you would need to have knowledge. She doesn't have that knowledge because no one's introducing her. And it would be good for someone to introduce her. There is no such knowledge, because this money is, in fact, out of control. Now in terms of ability and top-down. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, of course, there will be volunteer firefighters. On the way, these proposals will be assessed, as is the case under the revised principle of budget grants, from 2016. So these will be really very bottom-up conclusions, evaluated at the level of the county, at the level of the voivodship. And only then will they be sent to the chief, who, considering all of this, And the conclusion, and the opinions issued along the way, will take decisions determining who most and for what this money is needed, so that the fire protection system, in fact, is actually public, because serving people, society as a whole... In that sense, it's public. Because even if part of it is supported by associations, it works for people, for society as a whole. And it's about making him as fit as possible. Senator Florek says he doesn't remember what it was like in 1991 and 1997 because it was a long time ago, but you do remember that it was done well in 1997. That's what you said. That's what you remember. And there, that memory is unreliable. So let us determine whether we remember or not. In 1992, 1997 it was as it would be now if Parliament adopted the bill under discussion and you signed it. And for 20 years it was different, just as we're describing it now, which is so that it raises doubts. Actually, I think that's the most important thing. Because you could talk about it a lot, only I have the impression that the state here is a little bit dividing hair into four, as if looking for, in an ineffective way, arguments to defend the existing system, i.e. the privileged position of the Management Board of the General Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland, which actually for money legally guaranteed took over the influence on all units of voluntary fire guards in Poland. There are 16,000 200 units of this kind, Mr. Senator was right to call that number here. Not all units belong to the union. For example, the fire department doesn't belong. And they are important, they must be supported, they are also part of the system. I found out, for example. here just now from your commandant that one of the Wroclaw units, the Specialist Search and Rescue Group, to give an example She decided that she did not want to belong to the Association of Volunteer Fire Departments. There's probably more units like that. Well, now they're making new ones too. I don't want to talk about them yet, because they're only in the process of forming them that say they don't necessarily want to belong to a union. Well, if it's a financial monopoly, then it's simple: who doesn't belong, they don't get support. And as far as the Chief Chief is concerned, he's gonna give support to everyone, whether or not the unit belongs to the Volunteer Fire Department Association or not. Because every unit is important and necessary. It doesn't matter if she belongs or doesn't belong to the union. She is and is needed because it works because it is part of the whole system. In our view, all units, Mr. Senator. Let's be clear. The KSRGs, which we now have maybe 4,000 307 and those from outside the National Fire Rescue System, up to 16,000 200, are needed. The other ones that don't belong are needed, too. They're all important. This is a really big field, a very important fire protection system. Poland is a country, one can say, unique from a European perspective, has a really well-built system, but what needs to be rationalised needs to be rationalised. Now, finally, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the bill. To do it again. It's just that the amount of the write-down doesn't change. That's still going to be 10%. from insurance companies, fire insurance. It's preserved. Further: the principle is also maintained that half of these measures will have to be mandatoryly directed by the Chief of State Fire Department to volunteer units. And so it will be, because the bill settles it, and even if the chief had a different opinion, He doesn't have a different opinion, which I'm about to say, and I'm also going to tell you what the evidence is that he doesn't have a different opinion, on the contrary. He couldn't have done otherwise because the law ruled it. Well, there's just gonna be another path. I think it's more rational and coherent, as I've already said. And now proof that the Chief Commandant even now, when half of these funds are headed by the Chief Executive of the Volunteer Fire Service Association to the CSR units, he shares his pool with these units, so he has such a relationship with them, very positive, very good. Of this amount of PLN 20.5 million, of this part, that is half of this write-down for 2016, gave some of the CSR units, divided and PLN 4.5 million gave the CSR units. So the TSOs received 20.5 million, that's their share transferred by the main management, from the statutory write-down, and they received 4.5 million of that second amount, of that half from the Chief of State Fire Department. Is there a good, correct relationship to the whole system, to its consistency? Evidence black and white, to be verified, to be confirmed, ladies and gentlemen. That's how it's supposed to work. Of course, at least half will pass, or may add, as he added now, in 2016. Your Senate, I would like to put an end to this speech and ask the government to adopt a bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Minister, for these explanations. They were so comprehensive and exhausting as to the previous discussion that the rapporteur presented the report, that, in total, some of the questions I wanted to ask you were obsolete, because you simply answered them exhaustively, and you resolved my doubts. However, I would like to ask you a question about the whole system. You have raised here several times, Minister, that the entire system, its efficiency, is the responsibility of the Chief of the State Fire Department, who is also the head of civil protection in the country. I have a question about the very existence of voluntary firefighters in the field of expeditionary, combat activities. Who's responsible for this? Who's in charge of this? Who's in charge? Do the firefighters volunteer, I don't know, as you can see in old movies, hear the bell ringing and at this point the fire trucks are moving, does anybody own it, or does anyone manage it? That's part of the question. The second part of the question is linked to this. If you'd just said a few words about that NIK report, how it fits in... If it is so that the entire system, including the TSOs, is responsible for the Chief of the State Fire Service, then this 2015 NIK report, which was summoned by Senator Czerwiński, is devastating because it shows that these activities are not effective in terms of the scope of voluntary fire services. I'd have one more question, too. If I understand correctly, the initiative will continue to be bottom-up. I now, at this point, would like to ask about the resources, about the distribution of funds from this pool to the TSOs, to the TSOs' units. The executive regulation is not yet in place, it will only appear after the bill has been passed, I understand. So the CSR units will address their superior coordinator, which is the head of the city or district command, and who will evaluate applications for funding and then direct them to the voivodship commander or to the chief commandant. Here, to be honest, I have a little concern about the number of these units, but there are over 16,000 units, and the Chief of State Fire Department is one. Isn't there gonna be a narrow throat around here? Those are my questions. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u66	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u67	Don't worry about it, Senator. As a proof, I will recall what was happening in 2016 in connection with the revised mode of granting of grants to TSOs from budgetary resources, out of these 36 million PLN. I'll add, by the way. Mr. Senator, you didn't remember that exactly either. I'll say something with a snack. Because it must be remembered that you left PLN 32.5 million as a coalition of PO-PSL in the draft budget for 2016 for us or for yourselves, because you did not know whether you would win or lose the election. It was your draft budget, PLN 32.5 million, which is the same as in 2015. We in this draft budget of yours found a way to increase funds to PLN 36 million, i.e. by PLN 3.5 million. Together it was 36 million PLN per unit from outside the national fire escape system. In 2017, it is already... [[I don't remember...]] Well, you still don't remember, but I do. [[I told you, 39...]] Well, not necessarily, listen. In 2017, we actually increased by another 3 million PLN, but still from the modernisation programme, which we adopted, which you did not prepare for years of your governments, although it was necessary... Few of this, you have not passed the modernization bill, which we have prepared as Law and Justice, and we have submitted in the penultimate term of the Sejm to the Marshal's staff. The term expired, the principle of discounting made it go away. So together with the modernisation programme, which, according to the Law and Justice programme announced, the government prepared, and the Sejm adopted... Together these are, in this part of the expenditure, in this part of the amount, 43 million PLN, because I am linking the funds we are talking about. As far as the national rescue system is concerned, in 2016 this was as much as in 2015, or 73 million PLN. We have now increased this to over PLN 81 million. Together, compared to 2016, there is an increase of 13% in 2017, as you said. Speaking of which, Mr. Marshal, the senator who asked me just now... I'd like to say I'm sure you're aware of that. I'm the only one who would like to remind you of that. In the Polish fire protection system we have the State Fire Department, we have a volunteer guard, but divided into two parts: units that are part of the national fire protection system, and those that are outside this system. Those in the national system As I said just now, there are 4,000 307 today. This number is changing because more units are trying to get in the system. This process is going on, it's a variable number. Who owns... Well, as far as the State Fire Department is concerned, it is known that, depending on the level, the threat of commandants of individual levels. Before that, the commanders of the rescue and fire-fighting units actually, the commanders of the district, the places, the voivodships, and, when necessary, the operatives can be directed by the headquarters, e.g. In Świebodzice it was so that in connection with this incident involving the collapse of the building, the chief commander went to the crash site. The action was conducted properly, but because of its weight and scale it took over the command of the action, he took responsibility for it. Yeah, that's what happens. As far as individuals from the national system are concerned, of course they are in possession of this state system, because they carry out tasks in relation to the state system, and the others, as you suggested, are indeed associations whose members throw everything and run or drive today rather than run. They're on their way to the rescue. These are very sacrificial people, these are volunteers, these are people who are driven by empathy and altruism. We really value all volunteer firefighters very much, so we want to help them, we want to give them better conditions to do their job. So the modernisation program I mentioned, the High Senate, this time also provides support for CSR units. The first program, including ours, Law and Justice, didn't foresee it. He predicted support for all state services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the Police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department, the Office for Government Protection. And now, according to the new programme announcement We, unlike other groups, carry out the program consistently We also covered the voluntary fire department with this program, e.g. in case of purchase of rescue and fire-fighting vehicles, we predict that half of these purchases We hope that this will be a total of about 1 000 cars for these 4 years, and it will go to the CSR units. So we've just included a volunteer fire brigade into this program, but actually, as far as who owns... the CSR units are taking action on their own initiative, they're just reacting to local events with their activity. There are wardens, there are people who direct these actions. And, as it is with every volunteer, it is their good will, but this good will works as if it is a duty. We don't know of a case where firefighters refuse to act when something happens near their place of operation. Anyway, let's notice that the volunteers' mates are most often the first on the scene, they're the closest, they're the most densely distributed individuals. They're usually the first and they're very self- sacrificing. And for that we all owe them our gratitude. Let's see this. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, it may be worth noticing this, I am talking about it during meetings with firefighters on the occasion of the firefighter's holiday, but it is also worth mentioning here that the structure of the fire department's duties has changed. At the beginning of this system, 25 years ago, when the Law on the State Fire Service was passed, this year we celebrate the 25th anniversary... I'm talking about all the events that national and professional firefighters and volunteers respond to. At that time the structure was about the opposite of what is today. Today, only less than 30% of the events are fires, less than 30% of the activity is to put out fires. Lately, 28%. And over 70% These are other events, these are other local threats, all the different things we all know about, and I won't be taking your time explaining what these are. They're very diverse. It can be said that all the oppressions in which man is surrounded and naturalized and civilized, find the appropriate reaction from firefighters, friends and professional firefighters.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u69	Thank you very much. Minister, the entry into force of this amendment will entail the need to amend the regulation setting out the detailed scope, the detailed rules for the allocation of funds. If I'm right, does the Ministry have such a regulation already prepared?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u70	You have a senator, Mr. Marshal is right. Of course, the amendment of the law will entail the amendment of the said regulation. There is no law yet, so you can't issue it, you can't even start such an official legislative process because there is no legal basis. But in working mode, the project is intensively prepared. [[I'm the one who would ask you to hand this over to me.]] Well, we'll pass it on when he's in consultation, not before. Because he doesn't have the authority. [[What do you mean, it's gone?]] This is working mode right now. Unless you act as a senator... [[I'm acting as a senator now, of course.]] ...well, in mode... I don't know, in the Seym, is it a matter of interpellation or... He's forming, Mr. Senator. [[He's not here.]] [[Well, that's not there.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Well, he's not here yet, of course. [[Is it or isn't it?]] But, gentlemen, how can there be a regulation when there is no bill yet? The project is being created, the project in its working shape is, but this is not a project that can... [[No, Minister...]] Let me... [[I'm sorry. Yes, please.]] This isn't a project that I can pass on right now, because he can still change. This isn't a project that's set for a comma, please understand that. [[Minister, I'm not particularly interested in commas. I'm interested in rules.]] Sometimes the comma is very important.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u71	Well, in this case, I don't suspect... But, Minister, the bill is to enter into force 14 days after the announcement. So, when do you think she can come into force? By the end of June?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u72	It depends, among other things. From the High Senate, when it's passed, and then from the president's decision... [[The Minister is kind to the High Senate...]] Yeah, but I'm afraid so. [[You've got most of it and you've got it. That's why I'm asking about the project. Well, just, Minister...]] [[There isn't. Hole.]] [[...if it's a project, I'd ask you to hand over the project.]] Of course. When there is a project in the form in which it will be addressed for external consultation, the senator can receive it calmly and in a very fast manner. [[Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski...]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Maybe just one more sentence. [[There you go.]] Perhaps it's not just that the marshal wants to tease you that there's no regulation. It can't be because there's no reason. But maybe you're asking me what's gonna be on this project. So I just want to point out that some issues, very important ones, have been written down in the bill, the objectives have been defined in the law. In such a situation, the draft regulation is a little easier to write.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u73	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u74	Thank you. Indeed, how centrally it is managed, Minister, it is very easy. I'm going back to Senator Czerwinski's question, if he'll allow me to extend it. And to the Minister, who happens to be at various celebrations, who happens to be, and I think he will be... Isn't it so hard? In addition to the NIK report See the problems of voluntary firefighters, especially in the area of equipment? Was it so difficult to see that 8,000 firefighters, not equipped enough to react and to do so by law? And the second question that arises in connection with your statements. Don't you think there's a lack of trust in a volunteer fire department that's almost 100 years old, in some places even more than 100 years old? If you're building allegations that the measures aren't controlled there? Don't you think it's like putting 20 million zlotys on this guard against a scale of 800,000 firefighters to hide it under the seat? Do you think these people The largest army of volunteers in Central Europe are people who need to be constantly looked into their pockets? And then there's the third question. As part of your work, did you take into account the wishes or perhaps the expectations of firefighters who, in response to your distrust... I mean. when they are posted to extinguish fires or other rescue operations, they have problems obtaining adequate compensation for this or are not fired at all from workplaces Which, as you know, have mostly changed character from state to private. Do these amounts include compensation for their sacrifice, for their actions, for their spare time or even their lives?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u75	Mr. Senator, you're doing Well, knowingly, I think, because I've known you for years, I mean. Your speech A kind of socio-technical procedure that no one can fall for. It's not like 16,000 200 units are the board of directors. No. That's 16,000 200 units. They don't share that money, they don't decide that split. This is decided by the board of directors or perhaps even by his bureau. I do not know exactly how this is done according to the statute of the Association of Voluntary Fire Guards, headed, as you know, by the activist of a particular political party, Mr Waldemar Pawlak. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And that's, Mr. Senator, isn't it, not that 16,000 200 units have anything to do with it? They have no influence. This isn't about trust. Our trust in CSR units and firefighters is certainly greater than yours. But you guys are bidding in a false way, because if you were really bidding here, you'd be raising the charges on the CSR units... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...but you didn't do it. You just left less money. And we're increasing that funding for volunteer firefighters. And that's proof of true intercourse. It's not stories, it's just financial support. And it's bigger than your time, year after year, it's bigger and it's going to be increased. Once again, there are voluntary traineeships in the modernisation programme. System... I'm going to go back to this again because this is something a little bit similar to what happened when it comes to budget subsidies. The system works very well after we changed it last year. First of all, as early as the first year and changes were made during the year It led to a proper spending of almost 100% All the resources. I mean, it's just that they've been spent 100%. , at a higher percentage than before, i.e. according to the old system. Secondly, Senator Florek was talking about some pile of thanks, and I was talking about 2 volumes earlier, and now this is the third one, it seems to be growing. Because firefighters and CSR units, those that were previously overlooked, are very grateful for this change in the system. This is likely to be the case in this case, for the financing part. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that we are decreed by law for a particular structure, one association, financial resources, and these measures are a tool for subjugating a bunch of volunteer firefighters, and everyone thinks it's great except firefighters themselves and those who use it... It is simply necessary to assess this rationally and objectively. When we talk about it... I actually meet firemen very often, also volunteers, and when I talk to them, they don't speak your language, Mr. Senator. They, these firemen, they say they're grateful for what we're doing for them. So wait a year or two, and you'll see who was right.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u76	Thank you. Senator Rulewski wants to ask you a question? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u77	The honourable Minister asked Senator Jan Rulewski to answer the question. The question was asked by Senator Jan Rulewski, but he received a reply from the following species: My name isn't you. [[Senator, why are you talking about yourself in the third person singular?]] My point is to instruct the Minister that he is to answer the question asked by Senator Jan Rulewski, to answer the question. Jan Rulewski, not your group. That's one thing. Secondly, and this is a fundamental matter, the Minister did not answer the question of improving the social situation of voluntary firefighters who are posted to rescue operations. Not only is their salary reduced because of this, but also sometimes tragic events occur. Is there compensation for this effort and effort and even sacrifice within the money that the Minister will be so generously giving away?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u78	Mr. Senator, this is not the subject of this bill, so I don't know why you're asking. The rules that apply regulate this issue. That's not the subject of this bill, which is why I'm not responding. I feel like we're talking about everything here, and we should be talking about the bill. If you believe that these rules should be amended, then there is a right to legislative initiative also in the case of a group of senators, a Senate committee, etc. This is probably implemented differently, but there is no such... There is no such scale of complaints in relation to this problem that these rules need to be changed rapidly. Let's remember here the responsibilities of the municipalities, because that's how the regulations regulate it. The state praised here just now the municipalities, that they spend money so well as the central management of the TSOs that they control themselves. So I don't really understand what the problem is. I think that should work. Repeat. Besides the irony I've allowed myself, Senator, I'm sorry that this is not the subject of this bill. I will therefore ask that we return to the subject of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As part of the convention of your speech, I would like to say that you have started completely out of the question. You've been telling me things that aren't related to the bill at all, you've been evaluating the senators' appearance... I'm just commenting on how it feels. I'd like to inform you that the senator sitting on the right side of your marshal isn't yet a marshal, he's probably gonna be. So congratulations. It's just so you know what you're talking about... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Then please accept this as a wish.]] Oh! And now two questions, Minister. [[Mr. Senator, no one's sitting on my right.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] On my right... [[I was afraid you were seeing things.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's kind of like the Minister... Minister, you said that one body would decide, and then there would be better results to achieve the goals we set for ourselves. Do you not therefore consider as a ministry and you as a minister responsible for this area of security, in order to subdue everything, the entire functioning of voluntary firefighters, including the appointment of commanders of voluntary firefighters, etc., to the chief firefighter? Perhaps this would be an even better solution, much more improving, as you said, this rationality and consistency? That's the first question. Is there such work, and what do you think? And the second, with regard to this rationality and consistency. You said that directing this money entirely to your chief would improve the rationality and consistency... As an example, you said that PLN 4.5 million was added... and this is to be an example of better rationality and consistency. Would you mind saying a few sentences about how it would be more rational? And more consistent if the chief fire department distributes that money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u81	Mr. Senator, as far as your first plea is concerned, concerning the fact that I have extended my statement, yes, yes, I have extended it beyond the very subject of the bill, because I have referred to the various wordings of the Senator rapporteur, who has just been expanding and expanding, and he has forgotten, and he has misquoted me, quoted me, without quoting or quoting, somehow it sounded like something like that. And I had to refer to that, because the point is to be precise about what happened during the committee work, and that's what this case was about. So I did not extend my speech beyond the threads that were in the rapporteur's report. As for the question you have now asked, I understand the irony, of course, and I understand... It could be said that it was a rhetorical and ironic question again, and that's the end of it, to bloom it this way, but if you want it to be clear in the protocol, then I answer you, Senator: no, no one is working to do what you said. Because voluntary firefighters have the status of associations and will remain so. The law on associations determines their autonomy, they manage themselves. But they're funded from different sources. We are talking about one such source of funding. These sources are, of course, more. And here no one is going to limit the autonomy of voluntary firefighters. This is an important partner for us. We understand each other well with volunteer firemen, really well, don't worry about it. And we will support this system so that it is as coherent and mobile as possible, and when it comes to evidence of this greater coherence, I have given it before, answering earlier questions in my first speech. I was talking about the fact that he doesn't have any knowledge, because the board of directors know how these funds are spent, they don't share. The Head Commandant therefore does not know whether to direct the funds to a given location, because it may have already been delegated by the Board of Directors of the Union of TSOs and may not have directed them. It may be that the funding of the units concerned will be double, and it may also be so that the entity will not receive the funds from either here or from here. That's what it looks like. For this reason, cohesion will certainly be greater.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll admit I don't know what the opposition is about. I want more money... They say they're talking about volunteer firefighters, the 16 grand. I want more money. They're supposed to be fairer divided. They are to be divided by a more professional body. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Senators of the opposition, you can't convince me that the head of the voluntary fire department knows more about how fires are extinguished and how people are helped than the chief of the State Fire Department. I won't believe it no matter how you argue it. I was interested in one sentence you said in your first speech. Is it really that the General Board of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland has not reported to anyone... maybe it is not that the form of the report, I wrongly expressed myself Didn't he officially report to anyone on how he used these funds legally? Isn't that enough, even at the request of the chief of state fire department? If only I'd gotten that kind of money. Sorry about the expression. I would try to show others that she is being spent effectively, and I would simply point out what this money is being spent on. I'd just explain myself to you. Is it really so that we did not receive, i.e. Similar bodies, Mr. State Fire Commandant, didn't receive any reports of spending these funds, of course, in the previous state of law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u84	Mr. Senator, I was talking about your request for information, and even though it's been quite a while, he didn't get it. And if the board of directors reports to anyone or anyone else about this information, I just don't know. We'd have to ask President Pawlak who he's reporting to and how he's doing it. I just don't know. We don't have legal tools to get that kind of knowledge, much less assess how it works. In my first speech, I warned myself that I would not refer to those negative examples that you gave to the chief, and he has some knowledge, including partial knowledge, because I don't want to do it because I don't have total knowledge. And in the name of responsibility, I don't want to judge, which is why I was talking about consistency, not a negative assessment, although the examples were, of course, cited at the committee meeting, but legally it is practically that effective control of these measures is lacking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u86	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I think that's my last question. I have a question, Minister. The whole content of the bill, quite short and simple in the message, is known. Nobody's taking any resources from anyone. It's been repeated many times. I would like to ask what media activities on the part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration or the Chief of the State Fire Department are being undertaken to make ordinary friends, firefighters from the TSOs aware that they will not lose anything, but they can actually gain anything. Let me read now a piece of the position of the Board of the Municipal and Municipal Branch of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland in Wieliczka from 24 April 2017. This position is on the facebook profile of the Association of Volunteer Firefighters. It's out of context... That's the whole paragraph. Our apolitical relationship, which is close to the affairs of all those in need, has, however, faced considerable problems in recent months due mainly to the proposal to centralise the finances of the union and to submit them to the Chief of the State Fire Service. This may be linked to a reduction in the resources spent on TSOs, which will directly translate into a reduction in the level of safety of residents, mainly rural and urban-rural communities. I would ask you, Minister, to answer the question of whether the Ministry or Chief Commandant will take any action, any actions to make the TSOs aware that they will not really lose anything. Because it hurts, so to speak, one-sided representation of what's going on right now, such a rewrite of a procedated bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u87	This is not a one-sided representation. It's just not true, it's disinformation. Defenders of the system, which is now, have announced that they will carry out such action among volunteer fire department units, in smaller towns, where they operate. And they're running this kind of misinformation. Where we are, I ask the senators to do the same, we are talking about how it really is. And the information given is simply not true. This is disinformation. There will be no more or less money after the bill has been amended. It's only gonna be as much as the paperwork says. The law does not in any way alter the situation with regard to quotas. That's one thing. Secondly, it does not change the situation with regard to the percentage distribution. It was 50%. up to 50% and will be 50% up to 50% for PSP and for TSOs. It only changes, as someone called it, the money distribution channel. Right? There's gonna be more money. So saying that less money is going to the fire department is an absolute lie. We're not taking the piar action on this, Mr. Senator, because we believe that the bill... the debate that's going on around it should be enough with an honest approach. Right? You have to talk about what it looks like. I beg you, senator, to speak of this as we have put it here, as we said in the Sejm at the committee meeting. The exact information can be found in the transcripts of my speeches or your chief in committee work. These are facts. These are facts, but the most important fact is the text of the bill itself. You have to read the bill. This is the most important thing. There's nothing wrong with volunteer firefighters. No less money, no more centralization. It's just false information. Ladies and gentlemen, what's there to say? PSL fights for its influence in voluntary firefighters. That's all. It's the whole truth, the whole philosophy. You have to call it by name, because that's the truth. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u88	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u89	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am pleased that there was a clear answer to the question as to whether any further steps are envisaged, even as regards the submission of TSOs. I welcome your negative answer and I would like to ask you a question because recently, Law and Justice wanted to introduce a term of office in local governments as a remedy for some irregularities. Does the Ministry think about cadence at the level of district and voivodeship commanders when it comes to voluntary firefighters? Because I understand there were some irregularities. Is the MSWiA going to take this kind of action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u90	The matter of self-government is obviously not the subject of this law, Senator. No, the Ministry or the government aren't thinking about the cadency of the chiefs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u91	Are there any further questions? Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u92	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Senator Secretary, I kept my hand up for about 15 minutes. I regret that you did not see this in the first part of the debate when we put questions to the Minister, but this is just a point of formality. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I, Mr. Marshal? [[Yes, go on.]] Thank you very much. Minister, I have a few questions, but first I will speak to you about the precision of quoting or quoting our statements. I would like you to be so kind as to note that I have noted that Members have the right to submit parliamentary proposals. I didn't deny it. I was only talking about the number of parliamentary projects submitted in the current term of the Polish Parliament That's all. In my opinion, this malice on your part was completely unnecessary, because my emotions do not speak. Minister, I have a few substantive questions. Please tell us how much it costs every year to keep the voluntary firefighters on the ground and whether the full burden of keeping them on standby lies with the competent minister, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, or whether local authorities participate in this effort. If you'd be kind enough to tell me what the amounts are, I'd be very grateful for that. That's the first question. The second question is related, Minister, to the issue of European funds. It seems to me, as far as I remember our discussion at the committee meeting, that the Rescue and Civil Protection Programme was prepared in the earlier term of office. I think it's already been in place, but please verify my statement. And two more questions of a very specific nature. Is there any way... I have already forgot that I will formulate such a question, Minister, which I hereby do. Is there a will and opportunity to define the article as such? The 39th bill, however, in order to leave this symbolic amount to voluntary firefighters of 2% to 3%, so that these issues which I have been talking about, such as uniforming or helping young workers associated with the TSOs, can be implemented on an ongoing basis with these precisely these measures? And the last question, Minister, is also very important in my view. Is it possible for the Act to enter into force on 1 January 2018? What do I mean by that? I would like the new financial year to begin in the new law regime. Is it possible? So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u93	Minister, I know you have to go to a government meeting, so I have a proposal that you would like to answer as many questions as you can, and as far as the others are concerned, we will possibly ask for written answers, all the more so that Senator Florek and Senator Elephant are still in writing. We would therefore ask for these questions to be submitted to the minutes and the Minister would reply in writing. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Let me remind you once again that we have asked for this point to be moved to tomorrow, because today is the Council of Ministers meeting. We were expecting it to be on its own. The Senate Bureau disagreed, and I'm here today, but I have to go to the Council of Ministers meeting, and I apologize. Forgive me, but I told you earlier that it would just happen. This is the moment I have to leave you. I ask you to be understanding and to justify this fact. Indeed, here are questions that will require written answers, because I have no memory of certain numbers, and don't be surprised. Of course, not only do you participate in the budget, in the actions you are asking about the readiness of firefighters But also the local government, yes, sir. It would not be easy to give the amounts that the local government is paying, because there is no such reporting. Here's the local government report. Society, isn't it? But as far as possible, we will try to estimate and answer. With regard to the date of entry into force of the Act, I repeat once again that this is a parliamentary project and here I do not want to be responsible for the Members who directed this project... But I think I would like to present this proposal on the basis of the government's attitude towards this project. That this law should enter into force as soon as possible, there is no reason to wait. It is simply a matter of importance and it would be important that, as the legislative process allows, this law enters into force without delay, because it will create a better system, better conditions. As regards the request for a percentage write-down that would be left behind, I can say that there is no such amendment, so on behalf of the government I am not referring to it. I do not know of such an amendment, such an amendment did not appear during the work. Personally, I would be skeptical about it, but I don't want to refer to it in a formal sense, because no one has formulated, showed or justified such an amendment, so it's kind of a loose discussion. [[Mr. Marshal, I'll ask you a little...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u95	Mr. Senator, you know the situation. You, of course, have the right to ask questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u96	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm sorry, I know you're in a hurry, but I'll ask you a little question. So, as I understand it, Minister, within this year's budget or from this year's budget, the 20 million voluntary fire department has not yet been supported, these funds have not yet been paid. So we're waiting for the regime of the new law, and then the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Department will receive these funds. Do I understand the legal situation as of today?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u97	No, I think you're misunderstood. There is no new law, there is no amendment yet, therefore the legal status is so far. I don't follow the rhythm of the write-down from insurance companies, no one reports it to us, the ministry, the government. But it is clear that until the amendment enters into force, it will all be implemented according to the old law, i.e. it can be assumed that the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards receives some copies just as it is now established, in accordance with the rules that apply. What are the amounts and how long have they been transferred? I don't know. After the entry into force of the Act, a new rule will apply, which will be introduced by this amendment. Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you to fire me right now, because I'm gonna have trouble making it...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u98	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the Minister has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Slugocki and to any further questions put to the minutes if the senators wish to report them. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Can I leave the speakerium, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. They joined the discussion in turn... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. In what mode? There you go. [[I want to ask you a question for protocol...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u99	Mr. Marshal, I would like to remind you that I have asked for a draft regulation to be submitted in writing. [[Yes.]] I'd ask you to mark this. [[We'll add, we'll put in a senator...]] Good. Now... [[Question to protocol...]] Mr Marshal, because the Minister said that the Senate Bureau had decided that it did not translate this item into tomorrow, I would like to say that this was not the case because such a request had not been received. I've got the Bureau's briefings here. And that's all I want to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u100	Thank you. Does Senator Florek and Senator Elephant want to ask questions to be included in the minutes? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u101	I'll try it then, though it's a shame the Minister isn't here right now. I'd like to ask you something, Minister, because that's what the Minister said about the green color. At the committee meeting, the Minister said that one environment of intense green took over 16,000 200 units of CSR, creating a monopoly, and just now the Minister said what it looks like. I just want to explain something because the Minister said that I was also a member of the management board of the Wielkopolska Voivodship. Yes, as a voivode, I was directed from these 20%, was also a marshal of the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, the boss, the president was not part of any party, and he was once a marshal for the SLD. Therefore, to say that one environment... It's different in different voivodships. So, as the Minister put it here... He also stressed what he said at the committee meeting that they knew better downstairs. What the Minister just accused me of saying wasn't what I said. Mr. Minister said exactly that: downstairs they know better, President Pawlak and the board are not downstairs, they are upstairs, on the top. I would like to point out that the elections in OPS take place from bottom to top, i.e. through delegates, etc., while the Chief of the State Fire Department is the appointed commander. Therefore, I do not really understand what the Minister meant by what he said. And I'd like to ask for an explanation. That when the president of the TSO is upstairs, he doesn't know how to give away money, and the chief of the voivodship, here we have a hierarchy the other way, he knows. The question is: how will the Chief Commandant allocate funds to individual voluntary firefighters? I'd like it to be in protocol so that the answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u102	Thank you, Senator. The question has been written down. The Minister promised in advance that he would answer all the questions in writing. I'm opening a discussion. The following persons are put to the vote: first, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz... You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Chief! I want to thank the Deputy Minister of the Interior for being honest, because the Minister has told us what this is all about. The money is collected from the voluntary fire department and the insurance money is transferred to the chief fire department, the government authority. That's what I'm talking about. PSL dominates the TSO, it was the Minister who said clearly, the green color, who also mentioned Waldemar Pawlak's name. And that's the truth. But I understand the PiS government is an apolitical government, right? He's apolitical. Because if you say... [[...the Republic of Poland.]] If it is said that it must be transferred from PSL politicians to the PiS government, then the argument is that the current government is an apolitical government. Well, he's not an apolitical government, that's clear. In this way the PiS government, the PiS party takes control of this money. It would be natural for this to happen as a result of elections, elections in TSOs, those choices from bottom to top, as a result of certain electoral clashes, when others are chosen to lead voluntary firefights, of a different nature, of a different color. That would be perfectly normal. But in a whole series of agendas, it's like... Voivodship Environmental Fund The money is taken over by a government body. One at a time. I'd understand a procedure like this that you're introducing a term of office. As PiS intended to put two-cadence back in local governments, from which he withdrew It introduces this term of office and some such procedure, of course, illegal, etc. But this is where the money is collected and the decisions to split the money, which, however, flowed to the association. Is this the first step towards further action in relation to other associations? This is an association that has about 100,000 members. This is the biggest association. It starts with the biggest one. But you can also imagine funding or, we'll assume, underfunding. Case 1% for NGOs. I've heard about the ideas of creating some government hat or government foundation to which this 1% can be transferred. Each of us will be able to transfer 1% of our tax not directly to these organizations, but to this government agenda. I imagine this direction will be maintained, because there are reservations about the current 1% distribution as well. That it goes to some organizations that 70% It goes to a few organizations. That's an excellent argument. [[Foundations.]] Foundations, yes. 1% ... So that's the direction that I'm gonna say is bothering me. It's not a good direction. This is the direction of centralising finance, subjugating this organization to the government, because the old rule is known: who has money, he has power. And it won't be without affecting what's going on in the country. I understand that this is where PiS wants to cut out PSL's influence, so to speak, to the very end. But I say, if he wants, let him take part in a normal democratic electoral game and master these voluntary firefighters at the local level, then higher, then higher. Such a situation, which is at the moment, is worrying, which is understandable. And don't be surprised it's being done with some black PR. I will remind you of the matter of the collection of money for Polonia by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It seemed... It was another time, under other governments, but, it seemed, the arguments were similar. Yes? [[Rationality and coherence.]] And rationality, and consistency Of course, the MFA, that is, officials, know better how to spend this money, are more oriented and will add their money to it, MFA. Most of us, who voted as she voted, realized that this was not just a formal change. That's taking responsibility. I recall this example because we realized... We are senators and remember these very sharp discussions, very sharp frictions, also inside the Platform I remember that. And the argument that it would be better, more rational, and that this argument had fallen because it was not better and it was not rational. And now it's not gonna be better and rational, but this money, this 20 million, is gonna be part of the decision-making and influence by the government, by the government on this association, which should be an independent association. Therefore, I know that Law and Justice are likely to pass this amendment of the bill. And the fact that it came from Members is a soap of the eyes. It came out of government circles, and I think it wasn't from the chief commandant's circle, but from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which thinks where else to limit social organizations here. And here is the largest such organization, and here you can gain much more influence on the action and on the views of the members of the voluntary fire department. I propose two shifts. Firstly, one legislative amendment, which provides that the chief chief who takes over the funding of voluntary fire services, will inform the voluntary fire department of his decisions, so that this voluntary fire department board, which will have funds from other sources, will know that a specific voluntary fire department receives such a grant from the chief fire department, so that it will have a full assessment of the funding. After all, as I say, the volunteer fire department probably... well, not sure, but it certainly receives money also from other places, even from local governments. So such knowledge is necessary, necessary, so that they simply do not have more than one state, and others less... [[Mr. Marshal, 10 minutes.]] Good. The second amendment concerns that this year, in the year of the entry into force of this law, the financing should remain as it has been so far, that there should be no discussion and determination as to whether the money which was transferred until the date of the entry into force of the law belonged to voluntary firefighters or not, whether it should be passed on, whether the division should be proportionate, etc. I believe that this amendment will also allow voluntary firefighters to adapt to the new financial situation. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u104	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the subject of our discussion today, but before I do so, I would like to express my view and ask the Senate bureau to draw attention, if possible, to the invited ministers to take care of their form and how they exchange views. Because I think that the malice that was polite, unfortunately, to be righted by Minister Zieliński, did not agree with this or any other House, and differ extremely strongly from the generally accepted standards of public debate. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about extremely important issues that are fundamental to the functioning of rural communities and small towns. We are talking about the organisation of public life in these environments, aware of the role that voluntary firefighters play in these environments. On many occasions, volunteer fire workers are animators, creators of not only public life but also cultural, entertainment life. They are an extremely important element of social tissue in these areas. I regret that this debate has been simplified, clothed and limited only to such a very political one. Unfortunately, through Minister Jarosław Zieliński, there is a desire for a kind of political retaliation, because the Minister was kind to refer several times to the Polish People's Party and ad personam to the person of Mr Waldemar Pawlak. I don't think that's the point when we're talking about volunteer firefighters, and I don't think that should be the subject of our discussion. At this point I would also like to express my personal regret. What I'm saying is... Minister Zieliński even allowed himself to lecture Senator Flork, a long-standing voivode, and undermine his sovereignty, but also his credibility and independence in this matter. I've never been involved with volunteer firefighters, I'm not and I'm sure I will say that I will never be associated with a 100% probability, but I think that in this way we should not have a public debate. I believe that this funding system was a system that allowed this public life to be animated in these entities. Of course, I think of rural areas and small towns. But it also somehow allowed this human potential to be developed and found an alternative in a rather modest, poor offer for the inhabitants of these areas. I hope that... and I would like to ask the High Senate, ladies and gentlemen of the senators to reconsider this situation. Minister Zieliński left and didn't give me an answer, but I know the answer perfectly well. In the current law regime, the voluntary fire department did not receive a single zloty this year. This means that the PZU is waiting for a new regulation, for an amendment of the law, and then will transfer funds, but already to the Chief of State Fire Department. I think that the Minister should give such an answer directly, it would be quite obvious and worthy, and would be in line with the standards of a high-ranking official, who is the guardian of such important issues and such an important service as is, among others. Fire department, including voluntary fire department. In the context of the debate, I would like to make an amendment to the article on behalf of Senator Piotr Flork and my own amendment. 3 which would say that the Act enters into force on 1 January 2018 in order to give voluntary firefighters a chance to organise their activities this year also on the basis of write-offs from social security companies amounting to 20 million. Because I will remind you that today we are 16 May 2017, i.e. we are almost in the middle of the current calendar and financial year. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u106	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zientarski is next to speak, but he's absent. Then I'll ask Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Chief! I will quote some passages on what teachers teach in Poland in WOS lessons so that we can answer the question why we are even... sorry, why are you, state, Law and Justice introducing this. For starters, here's what you can hear and see, not just on this bill, but on many other laws... In part, Mr. Marshal spoke about this in connection with the Act on the Regional Environmental Fund. Well, from Warsaw it will be better to see where to do plumbing, how to use environmental money, etc. Democratic centralism and democratic centralism. For example, it is introduced that the education curator will decide on the organizational project of the school; he can say that the organizational project is bad. That's the direction. Centrally controlled country. You guys are so full of shit... You think that Warsaw will be better seen, what in Kwidzyn or Pcim is to be done, what can be done better. And Mr. Commandant. I'm sorry I'm gonna make an example of this. He will also know better within the framework, as the Minister has called it beautifully, rationalisation and cohesion. I'd like to tell you. This is how young people learn in WOS lessons that a strong country is a country where the use of civil society activities and the potential of non-governmental organisations is important for strengthening the state. You start the process of weakening NGOs with these decisions, because whoever has money and shares it has power. Well, there was an emperor in the Central African state called Bokassa...who so shared the money; whom he liked, he gave it to. And you want to... Well, who's gonna have a walk with your chief, he's gonna get more. You don't want to believe that people who are elected democratically, from the lowest level in a volunteer fire department unit to the main command, have a function in terms of election mandate, and also work within a non-governmental organisation, which is a voluntary fire department. We, on the other hand, determine a certain clientelism here, namely, one who has a better approach, who will pursue better, etc. through his fellow Members, the senators of your commandant, this one will certainly have better take-up, support in terms of his proposals. You are moving towards central government, destroying civil society. I told you about the W.O.S. class. Teachers say that there, teaching children and young people I'm quoting this because maybe one of you could use it. The fact that civil society is characterised by an active and capable self-organization and by the determination and achievement of the objectives set without an impulse from the state authority, I would like to point out. This is civil society. So far, in most European countries, voluntary firefighters are driven by the civil impulse, not by the chief's impulse, which, in a rational and coherent manner, will conduct what and where to buy and how to invest money. As teachers teach in WOS lessons, the interference of state authorities in these areas of life is minimal when it comes to the citizen's state. The reversal of this is a state of central power, a power controlled from Warsaw. I would also like to say that what is involved in the operation and expenditure of voluntary firefighters is not only Mr. Chief, you know exactly that. It's about spending money on equipment. Volunteer firefighters are such a pillar to ensure safety there on site; they are usually the fastest, because they are on site; you come and do all the great work, but they are quickly in place. However, it is also a pillar concerning Polish history and culture. You are attacking Polish history and culture. Let me remind you that in addition to the purchase of equipment and all that is related to the very engineering of the functioning of voluntary firefighters, voluntary firefighters finance youth fire teams, tournament of fire knowledge, i.e. something that builds something remains conscious, in the heads of young Poles. It's also a review of wind orchestras. After all, it is something that is present in history. A lot of places in the world. A brass band related to the fire department, volunteer fire department, purchase of decorations... etc., etc. What I'm trying to say is that it's ironic. On Thursday, the Prime Minister became an honorary member of the Board of the Municipal Branch of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards in Brzeszczy. And an honorary member has prepared a beautiful gift for his teammates. It looks like we're taking the money, you're not gonna be the targets and expenses anymore, and we're gonna be telling you what to do and how to do in a rational and consistent way as part of the chief's decision. [[They appreciated the Prime Minister's initiative.]] Mr. Senator, I would very much ask you to leave these precious remarks to yourself. [[Of course.]] There's a place... You'll come, you'll be smart about democratic centralism. [[High culture.]] Please, sir. If you're acting, I'm not interrupting you. Finally, I would like to quote your chief, what he said in one of the interviews on change. This is actually the whole cloud of all fairy tales about rationality, lack of information, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to what the Chief says. I find it psychic, this is the Chief. That voluntary firefighters receive subsidies from the state budget for the purchase of new cars, and firefighters from the State Firefighter's Office come to share vehicles which should be withdrawn from the combat division according to the norm. And the chief says this: new cars should go to the National Fire Service units, we will operate them, and after a few years they will go to volunteer firefighters. Unless some municipalities are rich, say the chief. They're the ones who can buy themselves. And this is the whole philosophy: we buy, and then as part of the money sharing, a used car that is worth, I don't know, 1 million zlotys, and after 5 years it will be worth 500,000, the chief will officially hand over to the volunteer fire department. That's what we were supposed to do, Mr. Commandant, at the PRL. That was fun back then. Wardens came in with old, run-of-the-mills and gave them to firefighters in volunteer firefighters. You know very well what equipment used to be in volunteer firefighters. It was a shame to let people go. You're right. Today, these guards care not only about culture but also about fire knowledge. They're also in stock with the equipment that's there. That's what you're saying, Mr. Commandant, is that you're doing a hit on money to centralize what, where, how, who, and how. You're eliminating local community activity in this way. Because we're not just talking about the activity of the fire department itself. I think that's what Senator Florek was talking about in the debate. Firefighters have learned to combine money, which is an important part of knowledge and conduct. They combine EU money, citizens' money, money from the municipal budget and the money we're talking about. And you want to create a new quality here. I'm curious about the country where the money for civic activity is allocated to the chief fire department. Finally, I'm going to say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, from what I read here, it appears that the entire functioning of the State Fire Service system, the entire fire protection system, is a cost of probably 800 million PLN. I'm talking about all the expenses. And here we are talking about the fact that 20 million PLN will improve the efficiency and consistency of the system. Last sentence. That's what Marshal Borusewicz said. This is the same maneuver as the money for Polonia: the money that will be spent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be spent rationally and consistently. I respect and I ask that you do not destroy what is working well, which is well assessed by the inhabitants and is a cultural element, an educational element and an element of ensuring the safety of the inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u108	You have a voice, Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I say that a group of searchers from Law and Justice with Arkadiusz Czartoryski searched for and found another place... I'm sure this isn't the last time you've changed your message. In my opinion, there will be more of these changes, and it would probably be easy for me to indicate in which directions they will go. Well, it's only a matter of time. And they've prepared a parliamentary project. As it turned out, neither Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski nor any of the 101 Members who signed this draft came to tell us at the committee meeting what the purpose of this law is. Ladies and gentlemen, the system that is in Poland is very good. He's praised all over Europe at all the conferences. We have the co-operation of the State Fire and Volunteer Fire Department. We have a national fire escape system where it works, as the Minister said, maybe 4,000 307 units today. This is a great addition to the state system. 30,000 firefighters in the state system... If we take into account how many firefighters are in general in Poland, it will probably turn out to be a few hundred thousand. As I say, we have a great national fire escape system and it's been working so far. I can say that many times I've had the opportunity to cooperate with the state and voluntary fire department. This cooperation has always been well organized, and there have been many cases, because for 8 years I was a Wielkopolska voivode. All I'm gonna do is remind you of that loud fire in Janko the Adventure. The actions that have been taken there, as all of this successfully managed to master... I will remind you of the 2010 flood almost all over Poland. Without the State Fire Department, but also the volunteer fire department... The State Fire Department has specific tasks. The voluntary fire department also goes to accidents, but also has many other tasks that may not be related to emergency situations. She also supports and interacts with other organs. So far, this cooperation has been very good. The system that has been in place so far has not raised any objections. But he jumped out, there was a parliamentary project, and there was a change. Measures are not public This is insurance measures in the case of fire cases. This change is sudden, in this mode. Any request for a change of date... Because I can't imagine, if this bill comes into force two weeks after publication, it's been issued within these two weeks, as the Minister said, a regulation. And without this regulation, this money will not be shared anyway. Now we have some centralization. Volunteer firefighters are chosen, so to speak, from downstairs. There are different rungs... It's only at the end that there's a board of firefighters' association. As far as I can recall, Mr. Chief Chief was once a member of the board of directors. I'm not sure, but I think so. Representatives of the State Fire Department are also part of this. It is chosen from the bottom, the volunteer firefighters vote. Let them choose as they see fit. As far as the chief of command is concerned, we have an appointment. Individual commanders... So it's the other way. Why is this reverse system supposed to be better now? It's completely incomprehensible to me. I was sitting... I'm not anymore, but in my previous term I was a member of the voivodship board of TSOs. That's 20%. The limit that is... In this composition was a marshal of the voivodship, was a voivode and many other people, and the boss was not even from PSL, as the minister emphasizes here all the time. This cooperation has been very good for us. It may look different in different voivodships, but I have to say that there was no problem. The resources that were available were from downstairs... First, in the county, whether the needs were analysed, what needs to be bought, what is missing, etc. And that's how it went. Now it's the other way around. The Minister said, quote... I could quote the Minister, because he's also twisting my speech. He said, "One environment, with an intense green color, took over 16,000 200 units of CSR, creating a monopoly. They know better downstairs. President Pawlak and the board aren't downstairs, they're upstairs at the top. Well, if that's the way we want to approach it, what's the situation with the chief fire department? Well, I'm sure the chief will be very happy and will be examining all these conclusions, a few thousand requests that will affect from all over Poland. I know it's the chiefs... Well, we don't know what it's gonna look like yet, because there's no regulation so far, but I'm sure it's gonna go through county commanders and voivodship commanders. And everything's gonna be okay, then. Yes? If these proposals are made by members of the TSOs who are downstairs and know exactly what they need, it is not good for you, but if it is a mechanism that works the other way, it will simply be centralisation. This is the opposite direction from where we should go. I can't believe that in two weeks' time, if this bill gets passed... Let us adopt just one amendment to move this to the beginning of the financial year. We hear that this year's bets haven't been paid yet because they're waiting for what's gonna happen. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what are they waiting for? For what we have decreed. They've probably known about this initiative before, since they're holding back the money. So let's enter this on 1 January of the next financial year, for which we can fully account. If you want to vote on this, you will at least vote on this amendment so that all this will enter into force on 1 January. Because anyway, the Minister won't issue this regulation for two weeks, he won't consult. Well, he said he was unprepared because it's a parliamentary project. Well, then, why proceed over the parliamentary project? We had to hold off, do a government project, add a regulation to that, and it would be clear. The Minister at the end made it clear what he meant. It's the green color that owns the OSP. That's not an explanation, ladies and gentlemen. You can always choose anybody in a bottom-up election. That's what democracy is all about. Everyone chooses and votes as they see fit. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a good system that works well in our country. The resources are needed and they will always be insufficient, so this proposal, which was mentioned here, that cars from the State Fire Department should be handed over to the volunteer guards, goes in the right direction. I think the more cars we buy for the State Fire Department... Let these cars drive for a year or two and be handed over to volunteer firefighters. And that's the right approach, because some technical progress is being made and these cars are changing all the time. So let's get this one. State Fire Department... But let us remember that although volunteers are closest to different events, they have a certain time and must also arrive. They must also be properly equipped, the more so that they perform many other functions. Well, there was talk of a brass band, uniforms, etc. Well, are we gonna argue about the exit uniforms that cost a lot of money out there? And now, after this shift, we're not gonna buy those uniforms, we're just gonna say, let them buy them for themselves, because it's the mayor or the mayor or the president who's responsible? Well, once we start discussing what the municipality is responsible for... the security system in the country is one. Everyone in the event of a threat to health and life must be sure that this system will work, so these divisions are completely pointless. Therefore, a request for rejection was made in the committee. And that would be the most reasonable thing to do. I think all the firefighters in Poland are looking at us today and seeing what we're doing here. We're taking action that really doesn't have any great effect, and in these smaller towns, if you accumulate it... Well, the uncle's got encouragement, he's gonna put more money in it. Here's a little bit, there's a little bit And he doesn't have to wait for the chief chief, who in turn would be waiting for the voivodship and district commanders, because that would be the procedure. And what this cooperation looks like today, I know from my territory. Well, the former chief of the voivodship and the former voivodeship aren't invited to firemen's day. This hasn't happened so far. [[It's been ten minutes.]] I'm almost done. It's all been different so far. Well, if we're gonna keep fighting state firefighters with volunteer firefighters, congratulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u110	Thank you. Senator Jackowski's voice is yours. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Chief! We're in the second octave since St. Floriana. As you know, on 4 May it is such a day that unites all the firefighters in Poland, and not only take firefighters, because St. Florian is a saint who has played a very important role in our national history. He was once considered one of the main patrons of the Polish state. And he's a great saint who patronizes firefighters. I, like Senator Florek, attend meetings with the firefighter community in my constituency. I consider it my obvious duty. Sometimes I intervene, whether it's the chief of the voivodship, Mazowieckie, or it's the headquarters, I perform with writings, I support various initiatives. I want to tell the senator that last Saturday I was at the celebration of the 120th anniversary of the OSP in Glinojeck. Glinojeck is on an important route, a seven that connects the south of Poland with the north. This is the district of Ciechanowski. 120 years. There's a great sugar factory. And in 1897, when the authorities of that sugar factory saw the need for fire protection, they set up something that could be described as a voluntary fire brigade. And this unit already in the fifth or actually in the sixth generation... Because it is the population settled, which simply continues these wonderful firefighters traditions from father to son. There's also a brass band. And like everyone else, us parliamentarians, know perfectly well, the fire-fighting brass band is a pride and a sign of prestige of every commune. Each municipality would like such a well-equipped firefighter's orchestra to exist in it and not only celebrate national, patriotic and religious celebrations, but also play an important cultural role because it is an excellent popularization of music, an opportunity to activate those who have musical talents. It is also an opportunity for education. And I would like to say that it is not by chance Polish firefighters or firefighters at all when it comes to rankings of public trust... Please note that the firefighters are at the forefront of these rankings. And it is absolutely undisputed and obvious. Why? Well, for a very simple reason. Because firefighters guard not only our lives and our health but also our property. Especially in agricultural areas, where there is plant or animal production, where there are buildings, where there is an infrastructure of the agri-food industry, fire risks are huge. And we also know very well that the landscape of voluntary firefighters has also changed over the last few years, for a very simple reason: namely, some voluntary firefighters, these leading ones, have been incorporated into the national system and secure entire areas of our country. As you know, the fire department not only deals with fire protection, but also with crisis management, and therefore also with communication accidents and many different events that simply require professional and appropriate approach to them. And that's why firefighters are so valuable. As far as the Mazowieckie voivodship is concerned, there are 70,000 members of voluntary firefighters in this voivodship. In total, in Poland it is a much larger number, I do not know, because 0.5 million, it is this row of magnitude. In the Ciechanov district itself, Ciechanów is the capital of my constituency. There are 2,000 members of the volunteer fire department for 90,000 inhabitants. I'm talking about showing you what a huge phenomenon it is. Especially in the environment of smaller cities, there is a voluntary fire brigade in the rural environment. And it is, you can say, the most visible sign, so literally speaking, of the Polish state, because these are people, women and men, uniformed, accustomed to the spirit of service, sacrificing themselves. It's not just passion, it's calling to be a firefighter. These people have a very positive social role. And it's very good that some of the mandatory fire insurance measures are distributed as well. The part we're talking about is, I guess, 10%. It is precisely for the purpose of providing fire services, for the purposes of the State Fire and Volunteer Fire Service. As a general rule, the method of financing and the amount remain unchanged. Fifty-fifty breakdown according to which 50% these measures remain for voluntary firefighters and 50% to the state fire department, it doesn't change. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Does anyone measure time?]] The question is why there is such opposition against this law and that in the process of allocating these funds, the chief fire chief should be of significant importance. Why? That's the question that grabbed me and made me decide to take the floor on this. Well, it means that the system that has been so far was perhaps, I don't know, I judge it by the fever of this whole debate. It is convenient for those who criticize the change of this system. The question is, why was he comfortable? And that is a question that should simply be answered, in other words, not to speak euphemisms, like Senator Florek. Mr. Senator, I'm not invited to many firefighters' festivities either. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well, all of us senators know what it's like. There are 42 counties in the Mazowieckie voivodship, and in each county there is a district firefighter's day, right? Each of us has several counties, and in theory should be given a set of invitations to all district celebrations. I don't get... Well, for different reasons, I don't go into details here. Any one of us could say a lot about this. However, the fact is that, as part of improving service conditions, as part of rationalising the stream of funds that are allocated to it, the chief commandant as a centre, who, in a professional manner on behalf of the Polish State, bears statutory responsibilities and is responsible for the entire sector of issues relating to the safety of people and property, should have these resources, so crushing copies, raising the voice here and questioning the principles of this law... She, once again, does not change the yot of the stream of resources that flow to the State Fire Department and the voluntary fire department. [[Then why the change?]] The questioning shows... Marshal Borusewicz put the matter well: why the change? And why is the opposition so questioning this change? And that's the question I'm leaving you with. Thank you. [[You don't answer the question with a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u112	Thank you. You have the voice of Senator Zientarski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! General, Chief! Ladies and gentlemen! Here many words have been said, with which I agree, of course, about the role of voluntary firefighters. I myself had the pleasure of being vice-president of the Senate Firefighters' Team during my previous term of office. The chief was a retired fire general, Zbigniew Meres, from whom I learned a lot. I worked very well in my constituency with the then Deputy Chief General, General Mark Kowalski. I must say that the volunteers really worked well together and did not imagine that they were not cooperating with the professional fire department. It's pretty obvious. It was, and fortunately, I hope it stays that way, because it goes, just as the speech was here... Some volunteers are even involved in this rescue system, which is professional. But this is where he goes, ladies and gentlemen... Yeah, what's this about? Why am I making an amendment? It's like nothing's changing. My previous speaker, Senator Jackowski, did not notice and as if he did not understand what was going on in this debate, at least he says so. After all, only the words "main management" are replaced by "volunteous guards," right? And it's the same after 50%. So, what's the kicking for? There's no problem at all. Well, the problem is and concerns the essence. That's what I'd say. Civil action in the association, which is the association of voluntary firefighters. This is the essence of things. It's about really citizens, from bottom to top... In the elections, power is elected in democratically. The point is that they can decide for themselves what they're spending their money on, and in general, no doubt... Maybe there are some examples. But there will always be an example, even in the state guard's unstoppable or unoptimized purchase, but that's not the point. The point is that the bodies of this association, the civil society that is rooted in the countryside, should not be able to decide about the money that is meant to be... It is not only about shopping, because shopping was usually also financed in the lion's part by the professional fire department. Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of change restricts the citizens' initiative, and I would even say that it deprives it of it. I'm going to give you this on a specific example. If there's money downstairs, allocated by... split, because the voivodship boards grant a certain TSO some funds, then that money is always insufficient. But that's when the citizens' initiative starts. Then those who had this beginning, this own contribution, theirs, sought the money of the self-government, sought That's the way it's been so far. For funds from the environmental fund, about private sponsors, I ask you, to achieve your goal because they felt hosted. And right now, they're gonna be asking your chief general for the whole thing... this is gonna be a change that storms, reduces and, in total, the effects of fire safety are gonna be a lot weaker. And here's the essence of things. Because, of course, the idea is that these firefighters in the CSR have money even for these decorations that, within the organisation of well-deserved firefighters, they admit to have money for these gala uniforms, which do not serve to extinguish fires, but this is part of a very important cultural activity, which was mentioned here. Well, firefighters serve the feasts, on Easter at the Lord's Tomb the guards are full, and on God's Body, etc., etc. In those gala uniforms that are being bought for the money they're gonna have to apply to the chief now. Whether a helmet or an orchestra, training young people, competitions of all kinds, etc... It was all organized downstairs, with its money, with its own budgets and additional money that flowed through the bottom-up initiative of those firefighters who were also often self-government. I know a lot of examples from my district that the mayor was at the same time the head of the CSR area. What happens now? Well, now it's just a claim to your commandant... It seems... And that's what I said at the committee meeting. Well, the green color doesn't exist here, so it's hard to say in the committee that those senators who support this solution have worked out. I would like to stress: which has worked out. For 20 years, they're green. So there's no party business here. It's about the real citizenship that's in the country. Is she one or another color marked, what does it matter? She's a tradition, and the firefighters want the money they deserve... I'm not here to discuss whether it's money... Because they're not budget, but they're certainly not... social. And it's not about the status of that money, but it's about the possibility of real disposal. Besides, that is the principle of state subsidiarity, that it is the associations, that it is the citizens who are to relieve the State and to help the State perform the State's functions, and not the State that is to take everything and centralize it at the moment. This is an example of the next step towards centralization, and that is why there is no agreement in the Civic Platform, because the idea is to actually keep this citizens' initiative, which works so well in the TSOs in Poland. I'm making an amendment, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u114	Thank you. Senator Blackbay's voice again. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Chief! During Senator Jackowski's speech, I wondered how logically you would say that you were in favour of this bill. We have heard a lot of truths in the debate here that firefighters today I'm talking about volunteers, but also about the State Fire Department is a social group that enjoys, as the senator said, the greatest trust in Poland. There's a system that works well, it's well rated by everyone. In addition to some of the people who came here and said that they would change this system. In fact, in small towns there is no celebration that the fire department does not perform, it was not an organizer, co-organizer, etc. And as Senator Jackowski rightly said, I'm fully satisfied, Mr. Senator. I'm signing this. The guards became a sign of the Republic of Poland. And you asked such a question, which I will try to answer in a moment: why is there such resistance to change? And that's where you asked the question, or actually put the question mark, and you raised that question: does anyone have any interest in it? Well, I'm not gonna continue with this, but I'm gonna say this: the difference, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, is fundamental. Because if you ask yourself the same question: what is the difference between when we strengthen Polish local governments by giving them their own income, when they themselves represent what they spend on, they choose their own goals and account for the money, they build this local community, and when they get grants and... You are going towards a state of subsidy, not self-government, and that is the fundamental difference. Against it, Mr. Senator, we protest. And I can assure you that none of the people on the Civic Platform I know do any business in the context of voluntary firefighters. The second element, which is what Senator Florek also pointed out: you are killing this natural civic activity of combining EU money, the municipal budget, the state budget, supporting various kinds of projects... So it's going to be an attitude towards this little activity. We write a proposal, we buy lots of good fish, we go to Warsaw to convince Mr Iksiński that this is a very good conclusion, we launch our MP, the journey of peoples continues and so you build citizenship. Against it, Mr. Senator, we protest. That's why we're saying again: think about it. This current system is a good system that built a good product in the form of voluntary firefighters. And if, in view of what the Chief Commandant and the Minister were talking about, some elements of reporting or information need to be improved, then let's improve this information system. It's like, in a situation where someone often drives up a one-way street, they say we're shutting this road down. Well, that's not an option. If there are some non-functional elements regarding reporting, let's correct them, but let's not ruin what Senator Jackowski said and what I fully sign up for. Volunteer firefighters have become a trademark of the Polish state, and I hope it remains so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u116	Thank you. Senator Florek's voice again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Jan Maria Jackowski caused me to come out here one more time because I noticed one thing: that you, Mr. Senator, don't think. You're always so meticulous, so thorough, and at this meeting, you are. I don't know. Unconcentrated, mindless, because you asked the question: why the change? That means you didn't listen to your minister because the minister clearly said why the change. So I won't tell you again, but all you have to do is listen to what the Minister said here. You were talking about these celebrations, these invitations... We agree, but another case is some kind of voivodship celebration... If you're a senator... Until now, the State Fire Department and volunteer guards have always organized voivodship celebrations, and this year separately. Unfortunately, this is all starting to go in the wrong direction, and that's why we want to talk about it so that this order... This is the moment when you can say "no," let it be as it has been so far. And let's vote not to make these changes. As far as the various celebrations are concerned, my colleagues have already said, I will not repeat, but these are cultural, state and ecclesiastical ceremonies. We always see them as firemen, they're always in those uniforms, and let's not defend them. They have, of course, many other tasks, but this activity is also important. Now, about what the Minister also said, about thanking the Minister... Ladies and gentlemen, money will always be missing, miracles are gone. To buy those cars that are expensive, that money won't be enough. They need to be separated somehow. If there's 16,000 200 units, it's known that only some of them will get that money. And since this year's grants didn't go through the union anymore, through the board of directors, but they went through the chief fire department chief, the minister is satisfied with his resources. I think I said two volumes, and the Minister fixed me up and said there were three piles that the third one was already growing. It's about the piles of thanks that the Minister gets, and he's definitely gonna get 'cause for 16 grand... those who get the money. The more the Minister talks about it, the more he talks about it. They know that such a letter has to be written and thanked, because for a year money will be shared again. Therefore, the Minister may be pleased and may continue to do so. And indeed, when this term is over, he will have more thanks. It all comes down to one fundamental thing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have fought for self-government. That's what local governments, local governments and regional governments are for, so that they decide something too. How Poland changed thanks to self-government, you can see. Therefore, it is really pointless to take money that is, as it were, creative. This 20 million creates a good atmosphere, creates opportunities for investment and other resources. Why change all this? Once again, I call on us not to make changes that are introduced ad hoc by some group of Members. I'm convinced that even the Chief Chief... Well, he got this and what's he gonna do? He's gonna have to process the conclusions. This is an entirely unnecessary initiative and, as we can see, leads only to a conflict of sides. Once again, I call for the rejection of this very short bill. These are only 3 articles, 1 page. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u118	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Majer, Mikołajczyk and Komarnicki have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senators Borusewicz, Slugocki, Florek and Zientarski. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would also like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Now I'm going to read the message. I would like to inform you that after considering point five, i.e. the Act on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, we will proceed with the examination of point eight, i.e. the law on claims for compensation for damage caused by an infringement of competition law. The sixth and seventh paragraphs will then be considered. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, and in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. The text of the Act is contained in print No 494 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 494 A and 494 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which took place on 25 April, on the issue of an opinion to the Act on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sporting events, and in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. In relation to Poland, this convention entered into force on 1 June 1995. The project under consideration is a government project and was discussed during the committee meeting by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Mr Jan Widera. The termination of the 1985 Convention is necessary in view of the need to bind up a new, present and adapted to current experience and good practice international agreement on an integrated approach to security, security and service during football matches and other sporting events, which was drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016. The 1985 document has become obsolete and has become incompatible with the contemporary approaches and experiences of the signatory countries in improving the safety of sporting events. The content of this Convention, focusing on the prevention and response of incidents in stadiums and surroundings, through appropriate crowd management, the application of barriers and fences and the operation of law enforcement and information services, has become obsolete and incompatible with the contemporary approaches and experiences of signatory countries in improving the safety of sporting events. In 2012, the Council of Europe Sports Ministers' Conference decided to entrust the Standing Committee of the Council of Europe on Combating Violence with the task of carrying out an analysis of the needs and possibilities for amending the European Convention. This law was discussed in addition to the members of the committee: the aforementioned Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Mr Jan Widera, with his colleagues, as well as the Director of the Department of Public Order in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Deputy Director of the Chief Police Staff, Deputy Director of the Legal and Treaty Department in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and lawyer of the Legislative Office. At its meeting, the Commission unanimously adopted a draft law requesting the High House to adopt this proposal without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u120	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will tell you briefly not to repeat any more substantive comments about the purpose itself. I would like to say that there was also a discussion at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the former representatives of the Ministry, the legislator presented a legislative opinion saying that the law does not raise any legislative objections The objective is obvious, we want to replace the obsolete legislation with a new, modern legal act that will better implement an integrated approach to these problems. The committee therefore unanimously supported the legislation in question. I, too, recommend that the High Senate adopt this act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u122	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Sport and Tourism were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs represents Ms Renata Pzczech, Undersecretary of State But, as I understand it, you're resigning. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Nobody signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016. The text of the Act is in print No. 495 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 495 A and 495 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, I also have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football and other sporting events, which was drawn up in Strasbourg. - Like I said before. On 4 May 2016 the Council adopted Regulation This international agreement was opened for signature on 3 July 2016. Poland, like other States Parties to the European Convention, may deposit the instruments of ratification after the previous termination of the previous Convention, which was the subject of our deliberations just now. The new legislation contains the basic principles of ensuring the safety of football matches based on the current state of knowledge, experience and good practice. The Convention presents the adoption by signatory States of a new approach based on the separation of 3 platforms: security, security and service. It therefore reflects the view that focusing solely on the fight against threats does not lead to the creation of appropriate, effective risk mitigation measures, that the more effective solution will be the implementation of security and handling measures that strongly influence the behaviour of fans, eliminating the possibility of excesses. The aim of the Convention is therefore to promote the best standards and dialogue and cooperation between institutions and fans, football clubs and local communities. The Convention also points to the need for international cooperation, for the detection of perpetrators of violence and for the certification of stadiums. The Convention contains 22 articles that deal with the following issues: I'll briefly remind you of them. It includes definitions, among others. Safety measures, security measures, handling measures, integrated approaches, good practices. The need to develop and implement the coordination of an integrated approach to security is regulated. The need to create the so-called. a safe environment for participants and viewers and establishes arrangements for licensing stadiums. The obligation to carry out joint exercises to test and improve contingency and crisis plans shall be laid down. Parties are encouraged to implement active policy and regular communication between representatives of clubs and local communities. With regard to police strategies and actions, it is important that they take account of good practice so far. Cooperation rules are also laid down in relation to persons committing stadium crimes abroad. The Convention also addresses the issue of international cooperation. The Parties to the Agreement shall be bound by the establishment or designation of a national information point on: football, which is to be in the organizational structure of the police. To ensure the achievement of the objectives of this Convention, a Committee shall be set up for life. the safety and security of sporting events, the main function of which will be to monitor the application of the Convention. High Senate, the convention was signed by a Polish party, subject to the fact that the rules on the licensing system for stadiums will not apply in Poland. Ratification by Poland of the European Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football matches and other sports events does not give rise to legal consequences and does not necessitate changes in Polish legislation. It is worth noting that the main tasks related to the security of mass events are regulated in the Polish legal order, among others in acts such as the Act on security of mass events, the Criminal Code, the Code of Offences, the Act on the exchange of information with law enforcement authorities of the Member States of the European Union, the Law on Assembly and the Law on Road Traffic. Since the provisions of the Agreement concern the matters referred to in Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. matters governed by the Act, is proposed to bind the Republic of Poland to the Convention by ratifying it with the prior consent expressed in the Act. As in the previous case, a discussion was held on this law. The Commission unanimously adopted the proposal for adoption of the Law without amendment and requested the adoption of the Act by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz:]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u124	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! As before, since my predecessor has exhausted the substantive subject of the Convention and the most important regulations, I will limit myself only to the fact that the Foreign Affairs Committee also held a meeting on this law. Like the previous law, the law did not raise any substantive or formal legal objections. The Foreign Affairs Committee therefore unanimously recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u126	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I don't see anyone willing... [[Can I?]] [[Senator Florek.]] Oh, Senator Florek, excuse me. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u127	I'm just asking one question. Because that's what it says, except for the stadium licensing system. I think that's the phrase you used. Could I hear more about why we shut down this stadium licensing system in Poland? What caused this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u128	Thank you very much. [[I can, right?]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u129	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, in fact, there is an exclusion of Poland from... There's no need to license these stadiums. This was not discussed precisely at the committee meeting, so it is difficult for me to say the details at the moment. I think maybe a representative of the Ministry will be able to answer that question. 'Cause I'm exactly... Like I said, it wasn't discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u130	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Sport and Tourism were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Renata Szczech like to take the floor on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch: No, thank you very much.]] Are there any questions? [[I repeat my question, I address it to the Minister.]] There you go, Minister... At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u131	Minister, I'm a member of the committee, but from what I hear... The rapporteur here said that with the exception of the stadium licensing system... we signed this as Poland, except for the exclusion of stadium licensing. I have a question: what is this sentence about? Why was this stadium licensing turned off? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u132	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u133	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate, this is a detailed regulation which the States Parties, which are obliged to establish a national information point, can adopt but do not have to. In this situation, taking into account the whole system of law and what regulations the Senator rapporteur has already mentioned here are normalized in the Polish legal order, ratification of this agreement would result in major changes and indeed changes in the design of securing mass events not only... in a whole range of legal standards that are already in force. And for a good cause, it doesn't seem right to have a real need for that. We have not yet had a case where licensing needs have been reported, but I am talking about the formal side, i.e. ratification itself and what requirements it would bring with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 491, and the report of the Commission In the letters Nos 491 A and 491 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u135	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 21 April 2017 on claims for damages caused by infringement of competition law. The committee held its meeting on 10 May 2017. In the Seym, 434 Members voted on this bill: 433 were in favour, 1 was abstention, no one opposed it. The purpose of the Act on claims for compensation for damage caused by an infringement of competition law adopted by the Sejm on 21 April 2017 is to implement Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain provisions governing the enforcement of damages actions for infringement of competition law of Member States and of the European Union, which are covered by the provisions of national law to Polish law, in order to harmonise the standards for redress for damages resulting from infringement of competition law. Directive 2014/104/EU is intended to strike a balance between the public and private mechanisms for implementing competition law and to ensure the full right to remedy the damage suffered by infringements of competition law. The legislator has decided to regulate the matter in a separate law governing liability for damage caused by a breach of competition law and the principle of redress for liability for damage caused by a breach of competition law in civil proceedings. During the meeting of the committee, a discussion was held: Minister Łukasz Piebiak, a representative of the Polish Bank Association, a representative of the Competition Law Association and a legislator. The Legislative Office does not raise any legislative objections to this law. The Commission unanimously adopted the draft law and requested that it be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u136	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. And I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, at the 80th meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the bill on claims for damages caused by the infringement of competition law was considered. I will not repeat what Senator Mikołajczyk presented. Let me just say that the vote was unanimous: they were all in favour of this bill, the committee is asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment. And conclusion: The High Senate will approve the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u138	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister has been authorized to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work... [[Voice from the room: Questions...]] I'm sorry. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Marcin Warchoł wish to speak on the bill and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] There you go, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u139	Minister, two questions. The first concerns what was the position on this law of corporations bringing together the employers concerned by this law. And the other. We are implementing the EU directive. Will implementation, implementation of these regulations change the situation of Polish companies which collide with foreign competition outside Poland? We know about conflicts that concern the transport industry, for example. Will it not be so that these new regulations, everywhere in Europe, will be used to prove that Polish companies are in breach of competition?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u140	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u141	Thank you very much. To answer your first question, Mr. Senator, what was the position of employers' corporations, I'd say I don't recall it being negative, Mr. Senator. In detail, I will reply in writing. However, I do not recall any negative voices, therefore I presume, or even accept of 90% I'm sure it was positive. Will implementation, I say, affect the international environment? I'd like to calm down, dispel any concerns. I would like to point out that Art. 5 excludes small or medium-sized entrepreneurs at the moment, so it is formulated. Small or medium-sized enterprise whose market share is less than 5% He doesn't take full responsibility. This responsibility is relaxed unless he is a repeater, the main perpetrator of the infringement of competition, has played a leading role in the infringement of competition law. As far as the situation of Polish companies outside the borders is concerned, there is no danger of this. We will present a detailed position in this regard in writing. There's no danger that the senator was talking about. Thank you. [[Then answer in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u142	Okay, Mr. Senator. I have a more specific question. Doesn't that apply to so-called. Social dumping, as the Germans say or the French say? The point is that it will be considered as competition that employees of our companies working abroad have lower wages. This is a charge on the part of the French and Germans, a charge on social dumping.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that this is about French companies in which Poles work. Are we talking about this situation or the situation when Polish companies employ Poles on the French market? [[These are Polish companies, which are on the French or German market, or on the European Union market in general.]] Mr. Marshal, there's no such threat here, there's no such danger. I'll refer to the sound of the article. 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as applicable by Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6 and Article 6 9 Act on Competition and Consumer Protection, which refers to agreements the purpose or effect of which is to eliminate, restrict or otherwise infringe competition on the relevant market, namely in particular and here it is mentioned On fixing prices, limiting or controlling production, dividing markets or purchasing, making the conclusion of a contract subject to other benefits. There's no such danger here. The bill speaks directly of cartels. Social dumping is a concept different from the concept of cartels, i.e. large aggregates using their dominant position on the market and colluding to eliminate other market players. There's no such danger here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act of the Commercial Companies Code, the Act of the Civil Procedure Code and the Act on the National Court Register. The text of the Act is contained in print No 488 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 488 A and 488 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Commission a report on the Sejm's adoption on 21 April this year. Act on amendment of the law , Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on the National Court Register. A few words about the purpose of the bill. The aim of the Act is to eliminate the possibility of using an electronic signature when setting up limited liability companies by the S24 Portal using the model contract made available in the ICT system Following the improvement of the safety of legal trading. The Act provides that for the conclusion of the contract of the company z o.o. with the use of the model contract and the application for the inclusion of such a company in the National Court Register, it will be necessary to have a qualified electronic signature or a signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile. To date, an electronic signature meeting the conditions laid down in the Regulation issued pursuant to Article has also been authorised. 1571 §6 of the Act The Commercial Companies Code, so-called an MS profile signature. The need for this change, as is apparent from the justification of the bill, is related to the recent appearance of signs of abuse involving the unauthorised use of other persons' personal data to establish a company with.o.o. using the S24 portal. From what was reported by a representative of the Ministry of Justice, it appeared that there were not so many of these frauds detected. However, since these are only frauds detected, we do not know what the actual scale of the problem is. It is important that these frauds detected are related to VAT fraud. These were companies used to create VAT carousels. It is known that the issue of sealing the tax system in this respect is a particular priority of the Ministry of Justice. The social harm of these abuses is very high, and therefore a rapid response has been made by the justice department. At the meeting of the committee, a representative of the Ministry of Justice made it clear to us that, while this regulation is a certain restriction on the existing freedom to set up companies by electronic means, the operation of this electronic system has, however, changed considerably since 2012, when the first possibilities for setting up companies appeared. Currently, ePUAP is free of charge, widely available, well secured. I think that this change cannot be seen as some particular limitation of these possibilities, and it will certainly effectively safeguard legal trade. Here we are dealing with such a classic case of collision of these two values: on the one hand freedom of operation of economic operators and modernisation of forms of establishment of companies and on the other hand safety of trading. And the value of the safety of turnover is higher here, so we take these rather than other solutions. In fact, the substantive issues did not give rise to any particular discussion. In its opinion, a representative of the Legislative Office made some suggestions for clarifying terminology in other laws, but after the exchange of typically legal, expert views, the legislator withdrew from its original idea of introducing certain amendments, admitting, in fact, that the current legal situation is sufficient. The committee therefore put the bill to the vote and adopted it without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u146	Thank you, Senator. And I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation... Are you done? [[Oh, yeah. I forgot there were two rapporteurs. I'm sorry.]] I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the eighty-fourth meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Act on the amendment of the Act of the Code of Commercial Companies, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on the National Court Register were examined; Senate printing No 488. Senator Marek Pęk presented in quite detail the issue of electronic signature and the introduction of a new signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile. The bill was discussed by the Deputy Director of the Legislative Department at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Andrzej Ryng. Mr Jakub Zabielski proposed a clarification amendment, but after the discussion a proposal for adoption of this law was made without amendments. During the vote, no one opposed the motion, and three senators abstained. The bill was adopted as a result of the vote. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u148	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Mr. Senator Grabowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u149	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, as I think, to Senator Pop, who here has discussed it quite in detail, I have a question about the system, as I heard, the S24 portal. Was it explained at the committee meeting what this portal is, what is its functionality, what it means to say, how it works, how it works? That's my first question. And the second question is about abuse, because from the submission of the report on the committee meeting, I understand, there was some abuse. What were they? Was that an abuse involving, I don't know, an attempt to steal data or something? What was the form of these abuses? Mr. Senator said they weren't frequent, but they were. If you were able to give me more details... If not, I will repeat this question in the case of questions to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u150	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as I recall, there was no detailed discussion about what these abuses looked like. I guess it's just that because a simple electronic signature is less secure in the IT, electronic sense, there were some computer possibilities to start a fictional company. When it comes to how she is later used, I think the Minister would be a better expert to talk about it. In any event, the main ratio legis of this solution is that a qualified signature has better safeguards, and it is therefore obvious that it will be more difficult to set up such a company. Besides, it must be said that setting up companies using the ICT system is not so widely available either, it is not so that it is possible to set up any company, because we are actually using a pattern there, which allows to create a very typical, standardised company, so some very specific legal structures cannot be created in this way. That's how I can answer that question. As far as the S24 system is concerned, I would also like the Ministry's representative to comment on this in detail, because in fact our discussion at the committee meeting was mainly related to the initial reservations of the legislator. Besides, maybe I can explain what these reservations were about. Namely, the legislator proposed to replace the electronic signature used in the law with an indication of a qualified electronic signature or a signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile. This was essentially the case for the whole legal discussion at the committee meeting. Other themes were not discussed more widely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u152	Thank you. Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u153	Mr Senator, were there representatives of employers at the committee meeting, after all, a key partner in the matter that we are discussing? Were they, or were they presenting their position, and what was their position?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u154	Thank you. Come on, come on,
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u155	Mr. Senator, from what I have here, it appears that the committee's meeting was attended mainly by representatives of the Justice Department. I don't know anything about the presence of employers' representatives. But I know that a number of opinions have been drawn up in this bill, among others. in the National Chamber of Auditors. That's my opinion. This is an opinion, the conclusion of which is that the opinion-makers have no objections to the project. The same is true for the opinion of the National Bank of Poland Also unreserved. So much for the reps.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u156	There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Michael Wójcik wish to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u157	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! It is my honor to present our position. It's a government project. These regulations were prepared at the Ministry of Justice. I will start by answering the question that the senator asked the rapporteur about the position of the employers' organisation, the business representative organisation. Mr. Senator, this meeting took place on 16 May 2016 in the Legislative Department. This was a working meeting, during which representatives of business associations are specifically concerned with employers of the Republic of Poland, the Confederation of Lewiatan, the Business Centre Club and the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Foundation, and had the opportunity to refer to proposals that were already more or less known at the time. This was the initial stage of drafting regulations on the Commercial Companies Code, the Civil Procedure Code Act and the National Court Register Act. This meeting was also attended by persons outside the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Ministry of Digitalization. I would like to say that this issue has been repeatedly considered by us. You have to remember that we seal the system, we fight various kinds of pathology. I have already had the opportunity several times to refer to various laws, including. to the VAT extortion bill, and we signaled that there is a need to fight the criminal world and fill any gaps that are in the system. What I'm saying is... I am also saying this as a person who for 20 years has cooperated with an organization that brings together entrepreneurs and employers. I have said many times and I repeat once again that I come from the business community. It is not a question of discussing whether there will be further freedom to conduct business. This is a question of creating a loophole that criminals can unfortunately use if the rule continues to function in this form. He's been operating for a few years. And in the case of the establishment of a limited liability company and the submission of an application to the National Court Register, one of the possibilities for signing a document or confirmation is the use of the so-called. a simple electronic signature. The question was, "How do you do it?" It's working. It works on this principle... Today you can imagine a situation in which, according to the current legal state, I will create 20 fictional companies. I will run them every now and then and they will be involved in the mechanism of tax carousels. How? Very simple with so-called. simple electronic signature is extremely difficult to verify the identity of a person. This is not the case if we are dealing with a signed trusted ePUAP profile, as the Senator rapporteur said, or with a qualified electronic signature. In the case of an ordinary signature, one can imagine a situation in which someone, using the model of the contract, will bypass the box that applies to certain data, such as PESEL. And we can't verify that. This is practically almost impossible to verify. You can also imagine a situation where I'll give you the data. Life shows that situations like this happen. A simple electronic signature is not enough. Not at all. We can't verify that. Of course, we are aware that since 2012, since these regulations have been in place, more than 60,000 companies have been established. But there were other conditions. then, when it comes to ePUAP, for example, the ePUAP platform, completely different conditions. Its availability today is completely different. The Ministry of Digitalization really put a lot of effort into running this platform to make it more accessible. Now even the banks have been integrated into the whole system, several banks are in it. This trial will proceed. Another situation was a few years ago, a different situation is today. We're not allowed to go over the hatches. Of course, the rapporteur spoke about the fact that more than 40 cases of this kind have been identified, but there may be much more. Which one of us can be 100% sure today And say it's only 40 cases? This is information from our relationship with the D.A.'s office, as well as with the jurors. If we get this information to the Ministry of Justice, then we have to react absolutely. I would like to say that we are a little surprised, because at first the employers' environment, the business organization environment did not make any comments, because they are well aware that this is a gateway for criminals, a potential gateway for criminals, because it is known that not everyone will use it for a wicked purpose, but it can be a situation. Therefore, it seems that today, in no case will this limit the freedom of economic activity, all the more so since we are talking about two activities, namely the conclusion of a contract, as well as the submission of an application to the National Court Register. All other activities from the outset were those for which the other two signatures were required, not just an electronic signature. I can't answer why there hasn't been any of the regulations that we're talking about right now, because in the case of public limited companies, there's been no ordinary electronic signature from the very beginning, only these two other types. I would therefore have a great request to you, however, to support these regulations. Thank you for the discussions in the committees and paying attention to the fact that perhaps it would be necessary at all. align terminology, clarify certain issues. I know there's been a discussion. Once again, the Commercial Companies Code is worth leaning on and considering. In my opinion, this problem does not have political colors. I also thank the senators themselves for their support, who know that this is something that is dangerous. We are only talking about forty cases of abuse, but these cases can be much more. That's it. Mr. Marshal, thank you so much for the opportunity...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u158	Thank you, Minister. Senators can now submit no more than a minute of query to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Augustine volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u159	Minister, first question. You say it's an abuse area. Please tell us how many companies, in the last four years, have benefited from this simplified method of simple electronic signature and how many other forms. That's the first question. So we know who we're talking about and what the scale of dishonesty or honesty is in companies. Secondly, please tell me, because you probably counted it, in relation to the number of companies registered over the four years, which is the promil, because the percentage is probably not, these 10 cases per year identified by the prosecution of abuse in registrations. Because, Minister, we can see that you have an enormous imagination, but we have to rely on facts. So we can imagine that we don't know what's going on, and the criminals don't know what they're gonna come up with, but you just went through a lot of trouble, and you checked it out, and it turns out there have been 40 cases over the last four years. So I would ask for numerical answers to the questions: what percentage of companies used the simplified registration, the one you want to eliminate; and what percentage of companies you want to eliminate; and what ferry 'Cause I think it's a beam, just for my senses. Did the companies registered in Poland commit abuse?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u161	Thank you, Senator, for that question. From 2012 to the end of 2016, more than 62 thousand limited liability companies were established in the S24 mode... [[Eighty thousand...]] ...over 1 000 800 limited companies and more than 400 public companies. Mr. Senator asked me what percentage it looks like. About 80% of the companies were founded using an ordinary electronic signature and 20% assumed in mode, you can say, traditional. However, Mr. Senator, once again, I would like to draw your attention... Mr. Senator may be based on this one letter that was made by the National Chamber of Commerce. Well, of course we respect this organization and its point of view, but that was, as I recall, a half-page letter. And entrepreneurs who are represented by other organisations have really not made any comments since the very beginning. And I would like to see that, under no circumstances does it sound that we want to limit the freedom of business. No, by no means, that's not possible. And entrepreneurs and employers' organisations are aware of that. In addition, in this memo, which I have before me on 16 May 2016, it was noted that priority should be given to securing something that the rapporteur mentioned, namely securing legal trading, ensuring security, security. For example, a few years ago, there was a situation that a company was registered as one of the trade unionists. Well, something like that can have far-reaching consequences. Nor can we rule out that it is the name of the senator or my company that will be founded. If that happens, then what? What then? There's gonna be a problem with the deletion of such a company at all. But that's another story. [[Voice from the room: We're working on it.]] Therefore, there is also a question, because this is a loophole in the system... [[This country doesn't seal...]] This is a systemic gap, indeed, I agree with the senator here. Well, the question is, what's the rule here? Here, however, we must remember that in principle We are fighting pathologists and therefore we should not leave this gate, we should bear in mind that this is about 2 actions, and the other activities are done with the use of a signature confirmed by a trusted ePUAP profile or qualified e-signatures. And I'll say one more thing, if I may, Mr. Marshal. [[There you go.]] I've been in computer science at the Ministry of Justice for 13 months, and I'd like to say that we're going to be talking more and more about the so-called. e-Projects. This is the inevitable path. But it's good for the citizens, it's good for the entrepreneurs. Our task as legislators, and at the same time our task as executives, is to ensure that such a system is free of gaps. I'm talking about systems that are already functioning today, and that's good. There's at least a so-called one. After all, there is the so-called EPU - Electronic Remembrance Procedure. e-Judge in Lublin. There was a lot of backlog, you could say, a few hundred thousand, but we get out of that backlog every day. This is also, for example, an EKW electronic book. Recently one of the ministers called me and was very surprised that there was such a tool that we have in our hands today such a tool, very good, thanks to which the property can no longer be traded repeatedly. And today we will go this way, there is no doubt about it, but we must remember that our eyes must also be in the back of our heads and we must protect the state and the citizens. And among others. That's why there's this regulation. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u162	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Grabowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u163	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question in connection with Senator Augustine's question. Because, at the request of Senator Augustine, you gave the number of companies registered by electronic means: 80% And 20%. 80% registered... So we know the scale. You have also pointed out, Minister, possible irregularities and abuses. You pointed out here the possibility of using someone else's personal information, someone else's PESEL number. I would like to point out that you do not need to use other people's data at all, because there is a simple tool called PESEL generator and which allows such, I would say, to select a control digit in the PESEL number that will pass through the system. There are such tools that are very simple and accessible. I'd like to say this, from the other side, to the subject. You're pointing out that there may have been such irregularities. Are there any possibilities? I address you, Minister, as chief of cases, among others. computerization supplies ex post verification? These companies are registered... I understand that this problem concerns most limited liability companies. Yes? Do we have any tools that will allow us, as it were, from the system? All these data are in the system to filter out, search for entities that are suspects? I mean, not to wait, as you put it in the course of discussing the government's submission, until someone uses these companies for some evil purpose, probably burdening our Treasury, just to be prepared for it, to have a set of data that can possibly be filtered and searched for such entities earlier. Is that a possibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u164	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u165	Let me put it this way: this depends on the mode used for S24. If used e.g. ePUAP or this qualified electronic signature, the verification is that there seems to be no doubt here. This identity is checked very carefully. It is known that in points or through the banking system... In my opinion, there's no way a mouse can slip through here. On the other hand, when it comes to actions, e.g. Prosecutor That's how I understood the senator's question. In my opinion, this would have to be the request of the injured person for the proceedings to be carried out. On the other hand, from the IT side, to investigate all these companies... I'll be honest with you, I'd have to see if it's possible to do an ex post. Not really, but I'm not 100% sure, so I'm ready to check it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u166	Senator Grabowski wants to ask you another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u167	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. That's what I'm talking about. I meant companies founded not using qualified signature and ePUAP. Is there any way I can tell you that trying to get there... Minister, you pointed out that it is theoretically possible to register such a company without the use of PESEL, i.e.... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes, yes.]] It's so easy to filter out... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Enough, Senator, that we have a foreigner. He doesn't have a PESEL number.]] Oh, yeah, yeah. It's simple filtering data from the computer system that's suspicious to us, isn't it? In this way, without waiting for any evil actions, in bad faith, we may have companies, so to speak, on the eye.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u168	This is extremely difficult. [[If someone has used someone else's data, it may not be possible.]] I hope that's not the case. I hope that this amendment will close the channel that allowed this pathology to actually happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u169	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I wanted to say this at the committee meeting, but I want to do it again. It is very good that you respond, despite this relatively small number of 40 cases, to these pathologies and eliminate them from the legal market. We should close all possibilities of circumvention, especially Watow carousels, etc. 2 comments, or actually 2 concerns, so I would put it. The first related to these 40 cases. Minister, I'm sure you wouldn't only reassure me, but also the opposition that has any further problems with that if... Are we sure that these 40 cases are those companies that were founded using a regular signature? In other words, or at the time when we start a company I understand that we register it in the National Court Register. Is there any way that we can identify a way to confirm the signature? That's the most important thing. Are we sure that the usual signature failed, or is it a qualified signature or an ePUAP? You rule that out, but we're about to see if it's completely impossible... Oh, maybe I'll put it this way. This is the second question: whether the dissemination of ePUAP and the possibility of verifying the signature, or actually the signed person, through internet banking 'Cause that's the way it's gonna be. Is it safe? I'll tell you why I asked the second question, Minister. Well, I remember that we've already made it possible to settle PITs through banks. Banks are a tool used to verify signatures via ePUAP. Applying for 500+ and setting up companies as you can see, was also possible and will continue to be possible. This also applies to the checking of penalty points. As you said yourself, it's developing. Okay, but banks aren't part of the administration. However, it is still a private entity. Minister, I am against allowing private entities... I don't know what to call it. I am opposed to the use of private entities in the performance of administrative functions, as I am against social schools and the privatisation of hospitals. It's a completely different plot, but when it comes to ideas, it's the same, contrary to appearances. I am also opposed to banks fulfilling the responsibilities of the state, or actually taking over the powers of the state. What do you think?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u171	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u172	Dear Senator, to my knowledge, all 40 cases involved a simple signature, an unqualified signature. It wasn't about ePUAP, it was about a simple signature. Well, I can't agree with the senator on the question of blocking the involvement of banks, because it's about making ePUAP more and more common. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of spreading the idea of computerization. I don't even think in Estonia anymore, although I had the opportunity to be in Estonia a few weeks ago. It is a country which, to my knowledge, is the most computerized country of the European Union. It's all on one card, so-called. ID-kaart. There is special software and everyone can preview whether they have tickets or what remuneration they have, and in another tab check what medications have been prescribed to a given person by a doctor. I don't think in those categories, because maybe it's gone a little too far, but we'll be going in that direction. We're gonna walk away from... Yeah, it's a little crazy about all this, but I was more interested in protecting this system, this data. Because cybercrime and cybersecurity are issues that are extremely important to us today. Besides, we know that there have been attacks in different countries over the past few hours. The system will never be safe. Whether a commercial company or a public entity is responsible for it will always be exposed to some kind of attack, someone will always try to exploit some of the shortcomings of this system. And that is the truth, but I would not share the senator's view that commercial operators should not be involved. However, I believe that we should look through the eyes of the citizen to ensure that these services are as accessible as possible. And once again, the whole system is going to evolve in this direction so there's more and more e-services. You could say that there will be an e-Citizen. Well, it may not rise, but there will be more and more in our lives. I think so. And as far as scale is concerned, yes, 40 cases are minimum scale. That's the question that's been going through here. I know by comparing it to those tens of thousands... [[It's just 0.02.]] It's true, it's just that these are just the cases that have been revealed. And we also need to remember that this is only a small part of all these proposals that... [[We don't know that.]] Yeah, we don't know how many there are. Well, we don't know if... [[We don't know.]] That's true, but this is a business that... Well, that's the kind of reading from the fuss, but still 40 cases is enough because it shows that there's a loophole in the system. And to my knowledge, this is just the simple electronic signature. The point is to ensure the highest level of security, but of course we will never guarantee that no one will steal this data, Senator. A few months ago, the attack on KNF, on the KNF website, and various kinds of splashes of this attack in other institutions... Cybercrime is today a challenge, a powerful challenge. We're gonna talk about this a lot. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't think about creating as many e-services as possible that we shouldn't popularize e-PUAP. It seems to me that this is a good direction, this is another way of thinking about our functioning in society. I have a problem with that, too, and I'm not hiding it, but I'm trying to popularize, learn and popularize it among society. And that's the way, there's no going back from that road. You'll see more and more e-projects, more and more. Soon we'll be discussing more of ours as the Ministry of Justice, proposals. But I see what's going on in the IT department. There will be more and more projects, because in this direction the world is evolving, society. And we're not gonna walk away from that. And these gaps should be eliminated, that's my opinion. And these cases justify the operation of the Ministry. We're offering you an offer. I hope that it will be accepted with kindness, as it was adopted in earlier stages. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u173	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u174	Unfortunately, the draft law is not accompanied by such a well-prepared impact assessment. That's why we're asking questions. Because we should have it on a plate. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes, yes, of course...]] How many companies register, what percentage, what's the problem? It's not all there. And there is also nothing that I want to ask, namely, as long as the time of registration of companies which in Poland is one of the longer in Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u175	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u176	Well, it won't, Mr. Senator. We're still talking about S24 mode. His name is S24. So we have 24 hours to... [[That's not gonna...]] No, no, sorry, it's gonna be... [[This simple system...]] It will, but it will not be used one of the elements. This mode is called S24 because 24 hours... This is of course an instructional term, each of us knows it very well. We can't lock ourselves in here. But I want to say very clearly that this mode is, is functioning, it functions well, it will function well. So that time doesn't extend here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u177	Thank you. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Yet on the consequences of this regulation, this law. Minister, is the signature with the trusted e-PUAP profile payable? Will he raise business costs?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u179	No. The e-PUAP profile is free of charge.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u180	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u181	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I would still like to return to my second question about e-PUAP. I don't know if you understood exactly what I meant. I am not concerned with its dissemination, because it will be natural, it will spread itself in various laws, of course by us here. But the thing is, you did. I mean, maybe not you, but somebody else. The possibility to use this tool through the inclusion of private, non-public institutions. And that's what's bothering me. All the more so because, practically speaking, at the moment, with the current state of technology, it could be done very simply. Because here, and here, and in the bank, and in the office, let's say the communes, we really need one visit to authenticate... to connect the data to the person. Yes? Am I right? Simplest, simplest language. One visit is all it takes. Encouraging the citizen for this visit, and he'll have it, just like that. Why does it have to be a bank? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Why... I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.]] Why does it have to be a bank? The banks are distinguished at the moment. I understand that they have certain... that there is a matter of certain public trust. But they're still private institutions. Especially since most of them... I mean, not anymore, but until recently, foreign institutions, foreign owners... So here's the question: don't you see the danger here? This does not apply to this law, and I believe that this law is now being notified, and it will probably be passed without amendments and will come into force, fortunately. But I'm talking more general, Minister. Because you meet with someone who is responsible for informationalization of life in Poland, in general. Give it to her eventually. Let me put it this way: do we have to use this bank prosthetic? Shouldn't only offices be involved in developing this system for new applications?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u182	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u183	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yes, just note that... do we have to, or can we? We can, we don't have to do anything, but we do. And I think that's where we're going. Why? Because banks are those institutions where people are already being verified in some way. Right? Everyone knows that. As a general rule, the bank is an institution It should be and it usually is. I'm sure there's some trust. Well, different things have happened in life, that's true. We're just testing it for now. I think there'll be a lot more banks... I'm aware of the four banks that have been incorporated into this system, but I think there's going to be more and more of them. Please note that the system that we use is a system that gives us the possibility that people don't have to leave the house to do certain things. You have to take this, too. I'll take that under That's how I'd answer the senator's question. I think there should be a lot more of these institutions. And it will be. I think that if we meet next year, if I have the pleasure of representing the Ministry of Justice and answering a question about some e-project, we can address it and see how it worked. I think that ePUAP will be developed and there will be more and more of these institutions. I'm convinced that I'm right and that what I'm saying is true.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u184	Thank you, Minister. I have a question about these doubts. Isn't it also that this system uses banking information for verification? Does it only work one way? [[Voice from the room: No, it doesn't.]] Doesn't he use it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u185	I can't answer that question to a marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u186	Good. Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u187	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm sure, Minister, we'll meet next year because you're so determined to defend what the government decides you'll be seeing us next year. I have two questions for you, Minister. First. The changes to the bill will undoubtedly increase safety. As a long-standing businessman, I absolutely sign off on this, Minister. But this also involves obstacles for entrepreneurs, and we should be aware of that. Obtaining a qualified electronic signature or signature confirmed by a trusted profile... Unfortunately, these formalities require time on the part of entrepreneurs. And there's no question about that either. The qualified electronic signature involves not only taking time, but... Minister, we entrepreneurs always talk about costs. It's cost-effective, too. Purchasing, Minister, such a set to make this signature is an expense of several hundred zlotys, I think. Therefore, I have a question for you. In the explanatory memorandum, there are 40 cases of abuse on this issue, which you have just confirmed, Minister. This is not a huge number, and possible obstacles will affect a whole crowd of entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to ask you whether the government is working on other amendments to the company code that will make it easier for businesses to run business. And the second question, Minister, about the entry into force of the revised rules on the use of the standard contract. Companies may be set up in electronic mode. Who could be an accomplice? Will it be possible to amend the provisions of the company's contract before registering the company? Can it be, for example. another personal composition of the company's bodies? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: If you'd like to repeat...]] Is that the second question? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Yes, because you are talking...]] [[A little quieter. Okay? There you go, Mr. Senator, say it again.]] My question concerns the entry into force of the revised rules on the use of the standard contract. Companies may be set up in electronic mode. Who could be an accomplice? Will it be possible to amend the provisions of the contract before registering the company? Can it be, for example. another personal composition of the company's bodies?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u188	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u189	As for the first point, yes, Senator, as an entrepreneur, you immediately caught up with the issue of finance, because, however, the qualified electronic signature entails costs. This is not a big cost, because in 2 years it is a cost of PLN 300. Well, everyone's gonna decide if it's a lot or not. [[In the case of large companies, you're right, Minister...]] Yes. That's the first thing. But you have to remember. the fact that when it comes to ePUAP, it is a free tool, a free instrument. Here too you have to remember that this is some kind of alternative, so you don't need to use qualified electronic signature. As far as the issue of the work at the Ministry of Justice is concerned, it is my understanding that such work is being carried out. In particular, I could answer that question to the senator when I contact the department that is preparing specific solutions. As far as I'm concerned, yes. But the details, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'd be handing you over to the senator in writing. As regards the change of contract before registration, yes, the contract can be changed. [[Thank you very much, Minister. I work 27 years in economic organisations, economic self-government and this written reply will help me explain this at business meetings.]] If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... Here, by the way, the question is whether there is an economic self-government. We have a problem here. Because one of the organizations said that she had a different point of view about these changes, and all the others said that they agreed with the government, with the proposals put forward. And now there's a question. Perhaps there is no economic self-government as a decentralised form of public administration. Perhaps it's worth talking about... But this is my private... Do not identify this with the government's position in any way. But these discussions lasted because remember, before the war, there was an economic self-government, right? He was in two constitutions, from 1921 and 1935. After the war... A formal legal point of view... There's a possibility, Art. The 17th Constitution gives this opportunity. But by the way... I'm sorry about the nuisance. [[Mr. Minister, thank you very much for not punishing me, but I have to say this. Of course, I have been operating in the structures of the economic self-government for 27 years, and I also think it is very bad that the economic self-government is distracted.]] Honey for my heart. [[We have a neighbor...]] [[Thank you very much...]] [[We have a neighbour... the Germans who use clear methods...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u190	Mr. Senator, we're entering a completely different plane. [[I'm sorry.]] It's okay. There are no more questions for the Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] Thank you, Minister. I'm opening... Oh, no. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Komarnicki. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! A few comments to this law, which seems to me only seemingly so obvious. Firstly, if we had a good impact assessment, we would quickly see that, in terms of risks and measures, what is proposed is completely inadequate. I'm gonna take Give God such a percentage of abuse to other laws! You could say that these are trace situations. Yes, there is a problem, as the Minister said, how to enforce legislation from those who commit abuse. There's some barriers here, but the minister didn't bring it up. Therefore, not only in terms of quantity, but also in terms of form, I have serious doubts as to whether the measures to be taken now are really appropriate to prevent such rare abuses. We would probably hear what employers stand for if we had them at committee meetings. I would like to believe that it was an employer's choice, but I have very serious doubts about it. They probably weren't at the committee meeting. And how can we deal with very fundamental issues concerning company registration without asking the social partners for dialogue? One meeting, Minister, is probably not enough for employers to prepare themselves well and to express their opinion. And the Confederation of Leviathan, one of the largest employers' organisations, is assessing these provisions negatively. The second point I would like to point out is that the law is really arguing with what was presented to us as the main pursuit of the economic policy of the state under the new rule of law and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, what was said and written here? That they're supposed to make it easier for entrepreneurs. For 80% Those who register, we're about to introduce a handicap. If it were so that they didn't care, they would have used these other forms to a greater extent. Apparently, it's not. Why isn't it? Because to make it safer, it's a little longer. You have to confirm your identity, you also have to pay a visit, at least one to do so. And yet, the Minister was so fond of computerization, which is going to get us going. I'm so sorry. After the offices, they didn't have to. Second contradiction. We want to catch up with other countries on the facilitation of registration. Today, we are backwards compared to those countries that we would like to model on, because registration lasts 4 and 6 weeks. According to the employers... [[Voice from the room: What country?]] ...against what the Minister has said, the average static registration time will be extended because this longer registration formula is to be disseminated before the shorter one, before the easier one. Finally, employers point to an increase in the burden on the courts. Nor did the Minister comment on this, because that is precisely the weakness of the law: the lack of a reliable assessment of the effects of this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, a general remark. If the offices in the Western countries had such imagination as the Minister, it would probably be something like signing a mere signature on a contract worth hundreds of thousands of euros, without any stamps and security features of this kind, it would not fit in this imagination. How much abuse could that be?! So I think we should do business. That we lack, which is still not enough to promote a culture of trust, not a culture of distrust. And this signature was an expression of that trust, despite the full awareness that, of course, criminals are and will be. The Minister also said here that cybercrime is flourishing, and she could always be. So this is an illusion... But chasing this delusion, you're trying to apply such rules here for 80%. on-the-spot checks Not for a handful, but for the vast majority! It seems irrational to me, and rather it imposes on what we see here, because such contradictions with general politics are more. Recently, we have had difficulties for apothecaries who have aroused a fiery discussion, rather than expanding economic freedom there. We also had a strong discussion on land trading issues, because this issue also causes distortions in the acquisition of space for investment. We had a discussion here, which will come back to us again, because we warned against the fact that the inclusion in the registration regulations of all domestic transports, let's call it cubaturous and fuel is a mistake, it is impossible to maintain. Today, we know that the Ministry opens its eyes and says, "Yeah, but we've gone overboard, we're gonna have to change these rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pointing to this because a little bit of the consequences are lacking in all of this. That's why I'm kind of in the background, because I've been here long enough... We in this Chamber had to slow down further governments, in particular the administration in order to promote e-signatures and ePUAPs. This ePUAP and electronic signature have been tried to forcefully enter into the regulations so that it can spread as soon as possible, forcefully. And that's that kind of bill, too. The Minister says yes, yes, we will go through previous governments. And that was my rule, and I criticized them, too. And I would rather agree with one of the senators here that this dissemination itself will occur, it will simply proceed. And let's make it easier for entrepreneurs to live, not make it more difficult, and not demonize something that... Because there's a law enforcement system from prosecuting criminals. If there is a problem with the application of the rules, Minister, your declaration should be made here: we have already prepared rules that will allow for the detection of fraud to quickly catch and punish the guilty. Because it's the right thing to do. And these kind of preventive provisions, which include huge populations just to catch a handful of dishonest ones, are, in my opinion, too far-reaching a proposal and I will not stand for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u192	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was called by Senator Augustine a little by his statements that the private employers and the Leviathan were not present at the committee meeting. But I would like to say, Mr. Senator, that they received an invitation to the committee meeting on May 2nd. The fact that they haven't presented their opinion is already... It's not the committee's fault or the Senate's fault. You're talking about trust, but if you were to analyze your statement, it would turn out that there is a lack of trust in your entire speech. If entrepreneurs are to have trust among themselves, and the opposition senators have no confidence in the laws that are presented and which, as I thought, do not raise any doubts, because there were no doubts at the committee meeting... So that I am very surprised by the lack of confidence of the senator in this law and the raising of the problem of obstruction of business in a situation where the Minister has made it clear that it all works within the framework of the 24-hour registration of the company. I believe that it is better to act preventively than to read in the press about the enormous damage that entrepreneurs suffer because of the dishonesty of others. Trust is very important, but trust based on law, I think, is more effective. Therefore, in my opinion, we should absolutely support this law without further unnecessary debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u194	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed... Oh, I'm not closing yet. For the record, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Voice from the room: Minister wants to speak...]] Mr. Minister, do you want to refer to this? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Mr. Marshal, one minute.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me, two minutes. I'm just gonna talk about it. I thank the senator very much for these words, because I must say that I am also very surprised by this discussion, very fiery and completely unnecessary, as it seems, because so far this proposal has not raised any doubts. This is one organization. I have this letter of Leviathan, and I must say that maybe not even in some big, sharp words are under attack these solutions. In any case, one organisation raised doubts. But there's something that needs to be explained. Well, Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I've been talking about a simple electronic signature in the case of two acts: concluding a contract and submitting an application to the National Court Register. In the case of any other activities, the company was created in this way and so must use these 2 other categories of signatures, no longer an ordinary signature, and you must be aware of it. So in the event of any change in the content of the contract, you can't just use a simple signature. I could ask the senator who sat here earlier today, why, then, in 2012, the Senate did not go so far as to ensure that all activities in accordance with the principle of freedom of activity... Why did it not lead to a situation where a simple electronic signature could also be used in the case of a public partnership and a limited partnership? No, it wasn't because you and the citizen are protected. Every action, this must be remembered, which hits our citizen, this is the gateway. It's not about me, it's probably not about you or anyone else, but there's been some cases like this. And that's a big problem, big problem. This is the opening of the gate. It is not just a matter of changing content, it is e.g. The issue of capital increase, the establishment of a procura, there you cannot apply a simple signature. That, too, must be said to the citizens. Logic would have ordered other solutions to be adopted in 2012, but not adopted. Why? Because they were scared because it's dangerous. That's why it seems that this regulation is good. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to refer to this further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u196	Thank you very much. Thank you for supporting the 2012 regulations. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes, yes.]] We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on Administrative Courts. The text of the Act is contained in print No 489 and the report of the Commission In print No 489 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u197	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Law on amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts is such an extended implementation of the petition which entered the Senate in March last year. I will merely remind you that the Senate, at its thirty-third meeting, adopted a draft amendment to the laws, which was then directed to work in the Sejm. The Sejm adopted the bill as proposed by the Senate. The amendment introduces the possibility to participate in civil proceedings and in administrative courts as an audience of minors. Similar solutions are currently in the Code of Criminal Procedure. This amendment is the implementation of the Rule. 45 constitutions, implementation of the principle of transparency. The National Judicial Council, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury did not bring any objections to this proposal, or in fact to that law. The project was supported and supported by the Minister of Justice. The Ombudsman spoke very well about the project. The Senate Legislative Bureau didn't raise any objections either. The joint committees therefore request that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u198	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Does anyone want to ask that question? No one wants to ask the senator. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by the Senate. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Michał Wójcik like to take the floor and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u199	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to bring up a discussion, so I'm gonna say I've had the opportunity to speak on the Senate proposal once before. We totally support her. We believe that this is a good proposal that criminal proceedings, civil proceedings and administrative proceedings need to be aligned. Since such a provision has been in place in criminal proceedings since the 1960s, and these matters are of greater importance, it can be said that, from the point of view of the minor's welfare, they may be more dangerous, then perhaps we should stress strongly here, if we introduce such solutions in civil or administrative matters, it will have the most educational value. We fully support this as a resort of justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u200	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. I don't see... [[There's a question.]] Is it? Oh, excuse me, Minister. [[Of course.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u201	Minister, you'd feel underappreciated if that wasn't a question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I'm serious now. I am opposed to this law, and I have talked about this many times, since the committee's meeting starting with the debates after the return of the bill to the Senate and ending with it. I have a very simple question for the Minister. Here, the Senator rapporteur was right to use the article. 45 constitutions, but there's also an article. 48 Constitution, which states that parents have the right to raise children according to their own beliefs. How will this law be implemented when a 17-year-old child, a young man, comes in and says that he wants to attend this hearing, and the parent finds that he should not attend such a hearing? 'Cause, you know, like... At school... Maybe. The issue of school education is the issue that parents monitor. What's it gonna be like in this case? Tell me if this young man, let's assume, a lover of administrative transformations, because it might as well be administrative rights, he's gonna have to have some special certificate. The argument that this is also in criminal law is not an argument for harmonising it. Maybe it should be an argument to get it out of criminal law, because we don't have any research either, and you haven't presented it, how many times this institution has been used in criminal law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u203	As a rule, Article. 356 have been in force since the 1960s. We have never met a situation in which he would raise any doubts. I remember the senator's first statement, I remember her. You asked me the question: why didn't the legislator from the beginning, as I recall, foresee this procedure in the case of civil and administrative proceedings? It's hard for me to say. I can't answer that question today either. This was introduced in the 1960's. From the point of view of the consistency of the system, it appears that a minor should also be allowed in civil and administrative proceedings. As a general rule, as stated in the draft, the decision will be taken by order by the chairman of the composition. In fact, he will decide whether or not a minor can participate in the proceedings. One can, of course, consider, for example, the discussion that has taken place in connection with the opinion of the Supreme Court. It is true that all the opinions were positive, but one opinion raised doubts, doubts were exposed there. This was the opinion of the Supreme Court. And there, among others. there was a discussion about whether to refer, for example. to a psychologist to examine the welfare of the child. But does the senator imagine a situation in which proceedings take place and thus extend all the way in the case of a small thing? Because it's not really a big deal. Once again, in criminal proceedings, this provision never gave rise to any doubt. There's never been a situation like this, and that's why the state... [[Maybe it wasn't used, Minister. We don't know that.]] And that is why you have proposed a regulation that in some sense should lead to the consistency of the system. The system is inconsistent, here we have to agree. Of course, we can argue whether it's good for the child or not. I'm gonna say it after I say it. Many years ago, when I was a minor, I was brought to this trial. It was in Sosnowiec, I remember until today. And it had educational value. I never thought that in the future I would answer the senators' questions, stand as a representative of the executive authority. For me, that was the situation that mattered at the time. And no one wondered whether I should be there or not; somewhere in the gallery I was. It had a certain educational value for me, so it seems to me ... I wouldn't go in here that deep into these distractions. In fact, there was no discussion on this subject in the Seym. I respect separate sentences, of course it's something that has value. You have to listen to other voices, because, as they say, it's never so that some people are always right and others never have it. It's never like that, it's obvious. But I think it's checking, going deeper... There's a chairman, he's making arrangements. You can appeal these orders, can't you? This mode is intended. It seems that the mechanisms are guaranteed, so that I will ask your senators here to support these regulations. The hardest thing about it, and that's the last thing. They roll at closed doors, in classified proceedings. We're talking about a completely different kind of, different category of cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u204	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. [[Nobody signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that for the examination of the 11th point, i.e. the second reading of the bill amending the Act on compulsory insurance, insurance guarantee fund and the Polish office of motor insurers we will proceed tomorrow. After point 12, which is after this point, which we are now going to proceed on, we will announce a recess by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. It is included in print No 366 and the committee's report In print No 366 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u205	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! As the marshal said, I am acting as rapporteur for the work of the 3rd committee, i.e. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Legislative Committee. But it is worth noting that the origins of this law should be seen in the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, with an emphasis on petitions, because the work launched a petition by a citizen who addressed our committee, the Senate, and therefore our Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, in order to amend the Act on the National Council of Radiophony and Television, in this article, which today says that the Act orders broadcasters to make at least 10% of programmes and programmes, There are facilities to receive programs or broadcasts for those who are blind and deaf. The petitioner demanded that this value be raised to 100% programmes and programmes broadcast quarterly. Of course, he referred to equality of rights and general needs in terms of the functioning of fully disabled people in social, public life, and in particular in terms of the reception of electronic communications. The Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, with understanding, referred to this. I'd say that's what I'd say. A citizen's efforts to make the Convention on Persons with Disabilities practically applicable, which Poland ratified in 2012. At least two provisions of the Convention, in Article. 9 and 21, it is said that the States Parties will endeavour to ensure equal and universal access to persons whom I have previously mentioned to disabled persons in terms of their ability to use different means of communication, including electronic communications. This applies in particular to three technical issues when we are talking about facilities. These are subtitles on images, audiodescription for the visually impaired and sign language translators. Further, this convention says that similar facilities should occur in something that is the mark of this age, that is, on the Internet. The legislative department, in agreement with the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, has developed a project which has become the subject of consultation. Meetings took place as part of the committee's work, different opinions were expressed. In general, these were the opinions of non-governmental organizations, i.e. the Polish Association of the Deaf, the Polish Union of the Blind. Of course, suggestions were made to support the availability of 100%. However, these claims also pointed out that if this quarterly availability is not 100% This is governed by the implementing regulations This means that they should be included in the Act for the benefit of all audiences, including disabled persons, the time of broadcast, and thus between 5 a.m. and 23 p.m. In their proposals, these organisations asked for this indicator to be 10% 100% or 100% It wasn't global, it didn't connect, so to speak, these environments. Perhaps there are others here unrecognized. Only that it should be a specification due to the dysfunction in the individuals concerned. Finally, there was a draft law which I have the honour of presenting to the High House, and which has been subjected to an additional "sorry" for returning "work" to the 3rd committee. The three committees referred to by the Marshal unanimously voted in favour of the project. What's this project doing? The project partially implements the intention of the patent and introduces the basic concept, i.e. the amount of participation in the programme of programmes and programmes in which the facilities I mentioned earlier will be included. This level is 50% over the quarterly period. Of course, this obligation is imposed on all entities under the supervision of the National Radio and Television Council. That's 50%. This is greatness, I would say, global and general. The draft requires the adoption of regulations which will cover both the issues addressed by the disabled environment, i.e. the timing, type and availability of the programmes, as well as the technical possibilities for broadcasting. In fact, specific regulations will be a certain enforcement of the statutory provisions. Indeed, it can be accepted that the reservations that the Ombudsman has expressed that this matter is too much in the hands of the realizers... This is not entirely true, because the National Radio and Television is not a realist. This can distort the needs of disabled environments. Eyes and ears. I believe that what happened was that the petition was taken into account by the High House... I think this will be taken into account in the vote and that the audit will not be based solely on the adoption of the law, but on continuous action, including the actions of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The law also introduces a new concept. The previous one said that it is possible to reduce the pool below 10%. In the procedated law, not only does this element no longer exist, it is assumed that 50% That's a certain minimum. But it still imposes an obligation on the National Radio and Television Council to protect this obligation by not allowing the broadcast or programme to be broadcast. It is a fairly strong institution, a very strong instrument in the hands of the National Council. There are different opinions here. In fact, it deviates from the return of the "audiodescription" to a more general formula or formula of "amenities." I think the environment of the deaf or the blind opposed it. Of course, one can at this point ask how our situation is shaped against the background of other countries. Although the Act speaks of a 10% level, as a minimum, in the case of translations for people with visual and auditory disabilities, but in principle several hundred programs conducted by the National Radio and Television Council show that this percentage is higher. Of course, the largest is in public media, it sometimes reaches 80%. possible translation of the broadcasts, smaller is, and much so, in private media. I think And I think that came out of the discussion, the obstacle is the commercialisation of the market, because the use of this facility entails costs. The hour of audiodescription, and so, I would say, the most difficult program, can be valued differently and in different countries is valued differently, it is understandable, but it is said to be 2 000 euros per hour of the program. Smaller costs apply to subtitles, probably the smallest, because about 200 euros per hour of the program, a bit more expensive are the services of sign-translator. But I mentioned these comparisons, because we are connected in this respect by the convention ratified by Poland, and it follows that the BBC is, of course, headed by the BBC, then by the Dutch, then by the Italian, then by the Danish... We are, let's say, on this average level. But all the senators have expressed their willingness to increase this rate regardless of problems, difficulties, however. If the senators were trying to combine the public interest with the interests of the broadcasters, then only by making the investigation process to those 50% as a minimum by 2022 spread into instalments, each year this is an increase A dozen percent. This does not mean that this programme will not be implemented after 2022. In fact, I am convinced that, thanks to the activities of the active environments in this matter and the will of the senators, we will move towards this 100 percent... Based on this intention, I bring to the High House on behalf of these 3 committees and the fourth that initiated these processes. For adoption of the law as set out in the report in print No 366 S. Thank you, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u206	Thank you, Senator. But you were the rapporteur for the 3rd committee. What's the fourth one? [[The work was started in the fourth one.]] [[Yeah, yeah, that's right.]] No, no, three committees, report three committees. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Rulewski to represent them. Are there any questions? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] There it is. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, I would like to ask whether it has been considered whether the committee has, for example, considered. introduction in the case of public television, which has completely different tasks and ties, a higher percentage than in the case of private television. 'Cause that's 50%. It will, as I understand it, be about public and private media. Have you considered increasing the availability of public media... I'm talking about this because we've been considering this very much... we've had a meeting in the cultural committee with the environments of the visually impaired, the deaf, we've talked about it, and indeed, I confirm, these demands are enormous... We'll get to that by 2022. However, it seems to me that public media should have greater responsibilities in this regard. Was that considered at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u208	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u209	Thank you for asking Senator Zdrojewska. Indeed, expectations were greater, but this was not a procedural problem, because the law itself does not distinguish between commercial and public broadcasters. However, there is nothing to prevent this process from being differentiated, especially since, as I say, this level of 50% It's not a rigid line. This is the minimum level. I think that my statement will be supplemented by a representative of the National Radio and Television Council present here and will tell you about the intentions of this missionary sender.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u210	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No, there isn't. Thank you, Senator. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill presented? Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and Minister Paweł Lewandowski from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage are with us. Do any of you gentlemen want to speak? Thank you. And from the national council you mentioned, there's no one. Are there any questions? Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u211	I would ask a representative of the Ministry of Culture to address the problem I was talking about. In my opinion, we should have greater requirements for public media in this regard. Is it possible and what are the plans for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u212	I'd like to ask you, Deputy Minister Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We support the project in the form it is currently in. We believe that all obligations should be equally distributed between commercial media and public media, at least at this stage. As Senator Rulewski pointed out earlier, the law does not distinguish between commercial media and public media in its records.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u214	Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[I'll ask you to clarify...]] There you go, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u215	...how many programs are currently covered... Senator Rulewski said it's up to 80%. When it comes to public media, I don't think so. Could you give me exactly what percentage that is right now? [[But what's the percentage?]] Percentage of programs with amenities for people with different types of disabilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u216	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u217	I will ask you to ask this question in writing and I will answer it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u218	Thank you very much. [[In writing, because...]] Are there any other questions? There isn't. I inform you that the representative of the government, i.e. Minister Paweł Lewandowski, has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u219	Message. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Fire Protection Act will be held today immediately after the announcement of the break in room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-05-16-senat-41-1.u220	Thank you. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. We'll start by considering point 11. [[Voice from the O.R.: No, from nine o'clock.]] Good. We'll start at nine. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 18 minutes 00]]
