ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u1	I open the thirty-seventh session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Mikołajczyk. I inform that the Sejm at its 30th meeting on 9 March 2017 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Patent Advocates, to the Act on the Exchange of Tax Information with other States, to the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws, to the Act on Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates issued in violation of the law, to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and to the Law on Criminal Tax. In addition, the Sejm adopted most of the Senate's amendments to the law on road freight monitoring and the only amendment of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-fourth meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. High Senate, I inform you that on 8 December 2016, the President of the Council of Ministers gave the Senate a report on the functioning of the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering for the years 2014 to 2015. It is contained in print No 372. On 14 December 2016, I sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The committees have read the information and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider items one, seven and eight of the draft agenda, although the Commission's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the ninth point: Act amending the Law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks and consider this item as the first agenda. Hello, Minister. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with items: Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and consider it as point six, i.e. after the point on the system of common courts; the law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie Voivodship and considering it as the seventh point, i.e. after the point on the operation of hard coal mining. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High Chamber has accepted the proposals. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. High Izbo, I inform you that a two-hour adjournment will be ordered tonight at 6:00 p.m. To consider point two, i.e. the mortgage credit law and the supervision of mortgage brokers and agents, we will proceed tomorrow That's tomorrow's first point. At 9 a.m. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks. The text of the Act is contained in print 434, and the report of the Commission In print No 434 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The National Economy and Innovation Commission on 3 March 2017 considered the Act amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks; Senate print No 434, seym print No 1257, 1261. The meeting was attended by senators and guests: Secretary of State, Minister Piotr Naimski and his colleagues, President of the Management Board of Polish Energy Networks Investments Andrzej Kaczmarek and his colleagues, and economic advisor in the Department of Economy in the Supreme Chamber of Control. On the part of the Senate Legislative Bureau, you led the bill by patron Michael Gil. The Act was discussed by the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Piotr Naimski. The Act extends the list of strategic investments in transmission networks as set out in the Annex to this Act. The amendment will result in support and specific supervision of investment tasks which require a priority, accelerated path for obtaining decisions and authorisations necessary for their implementation. The recognition of investments set out in the annex to the Act as strategic investments will enable all types of legal instruments provided for in the Act to be used. This is a parliamentary submission. The project was the subject of work by the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and the Treasury, which, in addition to drafting amendments, introduced the possibility of expanding or refurbishing the steelworks line. Lagisha. A representative of the Legislative Office, Mr Michał Gil, proposed one amendment, in which the words "the Warsaw agglomeration' are replaced by "Warsaw'. Minister Piotr Naimski said that this amendment was not necessary. This law was discussed, in which both the senators, Minister Naimski, and the President of the Management Board of Polish Energy Networks Investment took the floor. The chairman of the committee, Andrzej Stanisławek, submitted a proposal to adopt the law without amendment. As a result of the vote, the committee adopted the proposal. I ask the High House to adopt the bill without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? He's willing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator rapporteur, you mentioned an annex with a list of strategic investments. What is the number of elements in this annex?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u5	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u6	I'm sorry, I didn't understand... [[The bill is attached to the annex. It's about strategic investments. What is the number of these investments?]] I'm sorry, I don't know. Perhaps the Minister will know. I don't really know what's going on. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u7	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Well, thank you very much, Senator. Right now... Oh, no, it's already been done. The draft law was introduced by a group of Members. Would a government representative like to speak? Welcome to the meeting of the Secretary of State, government representative for strategic energy infrastructure, Minister Piotr Naimski. Minister, do you wish to speak? You're welcome. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. High Izbo, I'll just answer the question: 23 investments are in this annex.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u9	Good. Minister, thank you so much for answering that question. Senators can now submit no more than a minute of query to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators... He's willing. You're welcome, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At the committee meeting, Senator Augustyn and I asked questions about these high-voltage transmission lines. Senator Augustine asked about the surroundings of the Saw, and I asked a question about Żukowo and Friendship, these large buses in the vicinity of Gdansk. Well, they're not in this project. We also asked for a written reply so that we could be informed, could these lines also be prepared for... Can the Minister say anything more about this at this stage, but do we have to wait for a written reply? Because the point is why these lines weren't included. These are only connections, as are other connections in this annex.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u11	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It seems that this line between Bydgoszcz and Saw has been attended by the Sejm Committee. This is not covered by the amendment we are talking about today. This is the transmission line, and I'm talking about this line between Bydgoszcz and the Saw, which raises public objections, as well as a large part of the transmission lines. Unfortunately, that's what it is. Investor and contractor conduct dialogue That's how I can put it. With dozens of farmers who have orchards on this route. As far as your connections are concerned, they're not really here. In this case, we will simply reply in writing, we will answer specifically and precisely, because these are already specific cases. [[The Minister has committed himself to reply to the senator in writing. Yes? It's obvious that the handwriting...]] That's the consequence. meetings of the committee. This question went beyond the scope of the amendment we are talking about, but of course the senator's question needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u13	I wrote it down just for the record. You're still a senator. Please, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the rapporteur's report from the committee meeting, in which he mentioned that, at the seym stage of the work, the original plans for the modernisation of 220 kV Blindhouse line Lagisha has been remodeled in the direction of expansion and reconstruction. And that's the first question. I'd like to know what kind of consideration this is. [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: I say...]] That's the first question. And the other. I think this is a good opportunity for you, Minister, to say a few words about the overall state of the Polish transmission lines, the electricity grids for the training of the whole country. Are there any threats to energy security? Because from the information that appears somewhere in the media, it appears that this condition is unsatisfactory, to put it mildly. I'd like you to say a few words about that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u15	As to the change in terminology, because this was the case with the amendment replacing the word.Modernization with the words "development' or "redevelopment', it meant that the term used in the Act should be consistent with other building regulations, building permits, etc., so that there would be no question of interpretation. So that it doesn't concern the essence of things, but rather the terminology and definitions. And that's easy. As far as the state of Polish energy transmission networks is concerned, it is so that we need to build them and we need to modernise them. In today's amendment we are talking about construction, or actually expansion and modernization of the word "construction and reconstruction of the lines between Kozienice and Love." There's a 400 kV line, but it's a dozen years old. We really want to rebuild it right now and make it an essential element to connect the newly built block in Kozienice with the power grid. Besides, there's a few investments. I can say that a dozen, because there are exactly 13 such investments, which are considered by Polish Power Networks to be key, necessary and first of all, so to speak, to ensure. Among them there are among others. this line Bydgoszcz Okay, I'm gonna Poznan and the surroundings of Poznań. I can say that in some ways energy transmission networks are in better condition in Poland than energy distribution networks, which are in the hands of distribution operators and are separated from what they are managing, what they are worried about, what they are investing in and what PSE is building. If we are dealing with accidents that are caused by e.g. weather, wind, ice, this is generally the case for distribution networks, those networks which are lower voltage networks, with a voltage of 110 kV and below. There we have real problems, because some networks date back to the 1950s. And here this investment programme of the OSD, which is the distribution network operators we have, is very extensive. As far as PSE is concerned, PSEs have in their strategy the construction and expansion of the network. We're controlling this, and I don't think there's gonna be a disaster here. Oh, I'd say so.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. Then you're Senator Jan Dobrzyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u17	Minister, supplementing this question regarding the connection, especially this connection Żukowo ♪ Friendship ♪ Lębork, I'm going to say that this is precisely because this line is not in this bill. It seemed to me that it could be incorporated into this law, because this investment has been highly prepared and for many years it has not been known why it was not implemented. This line is agreed, and it's still not being built. I would therefore ask that in this reply in writing also provide for the time when the project will eventually be carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u18	Mr. Senator, if memory serves, I'm sorry, but I wasn't prepared for such a detailed question right now. This investment concerns the 110 kV line. This is a distribution line, it is outside the Gestia of Polish Power Networks, while it is the responsibility of the operator of distribution networks. [[No, no, it's PSE's line to build.]] Okay, I'll answer... [[Voice from the room: It's not PSE, but...]] [[Okay, Mr...]] We will answer this question in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u19	That's right, in writing, I'll tell you right now. Senator Jan Dobrzyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Whether this novel, this change in terms of strategic investments in the area of transmission networks concerns the whole country or as if it were taking care of the matter I'll just say it in a simple way. Only Central and Eastern Poland? 'Cause that's how we can...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u21	This novel introduces some of the necessary elements of the network, which complement the image of the network throughout Poland contained in the amended act. In the Annex there are 23 investments covered by the Special Law. We are now adding a few of them, among others. such difficult elements as e.g. connection to the south of Skawina with the 400 kV transmission bus. It is only 3.5 km, and at the same time it is a built-in area and there is a big problem, and for Krakow it is very important. Therefore, this law is complementary, it is not that this amendment is regionalised.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. I therefore thank the Minister very much. [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Thank you.]] I inform you that the Minister has committed himself to giving a written answer to the question asked by Senator Kazimierz Kleina. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As announced earlier, we will proceed with the review of point two, namely the mortgage credit law and the supervision of mortgage brokers and agents, tomorrow at 9 a.m. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Penal Code, the Law on Juvenile Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure. The text of the Act is contained in print No 435 and the report of the Commission In print No 435 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 24 February this year on the amendment of the Law on Criminal Code, the Law on Juvenile Procedure and the Act on the Code of Criminal Procedure. The joint committee meeting took place on 8 March. The meeting was attended by representatives of the President of the Republic of Poland, except for the senators. in the person of Minister Andrzej Dera, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the Ombudsman, representatives of the Ombudsman. This is the President's initiative. The child's rights spokesperson asked to address this issue. A few words about the purpose and subject of the bill. The purpose of the Act is to tighten up the system of penalties provided for the perpetrators of offences committed to the detriment of minors and persons in difficulty, crimes against life and health, against freedom and care and family. The changes introduced are intended to increase the level of protection of minors and persons who are not able to cope because of their mental or physical state. These changes result from the assumption that the protection of minors and persons, as it is said, inefficient in life for various reasons Mental, social, development or emotional values are one of the important social, humanitarian values, which so far has not been properly reflected in the criminal code. We are all aware that matters relating to these persons should be subject to special protection, but the criminal code is not particularly concerned so far. It has therefore been decided to make some changes in a number of criminal code provisions that will actually highlight the protection of minors and the helpless and increase the scope of their legal protection. The Penal Code is a legal act which, in addition to containing provisions on the fight against certain offences, formulates a broader catalogue of values, such legal axiology, and it is therefore important that such solutions be found in this particular legal act. These provisions contain solutions that will make the court consider, as an aggravating circumstance, the offence to the detriment of a person who is not able to do so on account of age and health. In addition, there are changes that strengthen criminal sanctions in the event of such offences. In addition, a qualified criminal offence is introduced into the criminal code due to the consequence of a man's death. And here a sentence in the form of imprisonment from 2 to 12 years has been replaced by a sentence of imprisonment from 5 years, a sentence of 25 years imprisonment or a life imprisonment. Because of the sanction, this kind of act will now constitute a crime. As far as the committee meeting is concerned, as I said, the representative of the President, Minister Andrzej Dera, presented a very broad justification for these changes. The case was also referred to by a representative of the Justice Department who supported these provisions and confirmed that they were jointly developed and consulted widely with the Ministry. The Ombudsman's representative was very positive about the case. There were also critical voices. They dealt with typically systemic, karmic solutions. The point was whether the introduction of these rules would destroy a certain systematics of the criminal code, or whether they could not be implemented in a slightly different way. It was a criminal debate, more about the dogmatics of criminal law than politics, so maybe I'll skip the details. Some reservations from the Legislative Bureau aroused terminology. In order to maintain some consistency in legal terminology, the legislator proposed not to use the concept of "unhelpful person" due to age or health status. The point was that there was some inconsistency with the concept of "unhelpful person" due to her mental or physical state. In conclusion, I would like to say that the committee's deliberations have ended with the adoption of amendments to the law. The Commission voted, inter alia, to replace age or health by age, mental or physical status. I therefore conclude: the committee requests the adoption by the High Senate of the bill together with the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? [[I have a question for you.]] Yes? You're welcome, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u25	Mr. Marshal, thank you for your voice. Mr. Senator, I'm gonna ask you something as an illegal. As for the text of the bill... In general, the bill is right. Increases the level of punishment, extends the catalogue of acts that will be punished. But as an illegal I wonder one thing: in the case of the entries in individual articles, these catalogues are mostly closed, i.e. the penalty from I wonder why. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 156 §1 point 2 is referred to as deprivation of liberty for no less than 3 years and there is no upper limit to the sentence indicated. What does that tell you? In such a case, what will be the upper dimension of the penalty? In the same way, it is Article. 189 §3, where the sentence of imprisonment is also referred to for a period not less than 3 years. I would like the senator to explain in some way why some of the articles contain, so to speak, punishment from the lowest to the highest, and these two articles do not contain the upper limit of punishment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u26	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u27	Thank you very much. There was no discussion on this at the committee meeting. I don't think that's a particularly original, unusual definition of criminal sanctions. That's what you do in the penal code. You don't always show such forks from the smallest to the largest, sometimes you point to this minimum range of punishment. If the President's representative wants to, it may be more precise. However, I will say that there has been a broader discussion about the scope of these sanctions, because in particular the representative of the Ombudsman expressed such a view that these changes do not take into account judicial practice, i.e. that the judicial practice is different than what we propose in our amendment. Yeah, well, that's the point. The criminal code should, like, mobilize judges to change a certain judicial practice. This is the conviction of the projectors that an increase in criminal sanctions will simply mobilise the courts to impose higher penalties, of course in these forks, in this respect, which the legislator has defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u28	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u29	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the issue we are discussing is not new. In the criminal code, in the criminal code, we have the protection of minors and helpless people. Here we undoubtedly have mainly tightening penalties. I would like to ask if any analyses were presented at the committee meeting which would confirm that such an increase is justified and will have the right effect. Have, in short, the various institutes that can be used on this issue, from the institute of judicial investigations to scientific institutions, presented any studies that would be rational and have a better effect than what is now?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u30	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, your question is often present in such discussions on criminal policy. You could say that this is a matter of philosophy. Some believe that increasing penalties, increasing criminal sanctions does not effectively affect the fight against crime. And here it is said that punishment should not be so high as inevitable, be rehabilitative, etc., etc. However, our political environment is in position I'm going back to what I said earlier, that the criminal code, when building a legal axiology, focuses mainly on punishment, punishment, punishment, types of punishment, those strictly mentioned in the criminal code. It's like it's mostly built here. This issue, of course, also has a very important sociological, social and psychological aspect. It's a matter of family work. In general, there was such conviction on the applicant's side, from which I started my report, that the penal code at this point is a little bit on the side, that we notice the problem on many other levels, and the penal code does not actually see the problem. Thus, it is difficult in the Criminal Code to see this problem differently than just by increasing the penalty or extending the catalogue of penalties, because it is not only about increasing the penalty itself, but also about what I have already said, that these circumstances will now be incriminating. For it can be said that often there was such a silent permission to do certain acts, which have been going on for many years, were carried out permanently in the family, by the loved ones. There was some kind of conspiracy of silence about it. Today, too, is about the duty of the so-called. Denunciation, that is, a notification of such a crime. We can't hide our heads in the sand, we need to be holistic here. However, in order to be quite objective, I must say that it was the Ombudsman's representative who raised such reservations that this was not the result of empirical research. But, as I say, it's an eternal dispute between a legal philosophy, whether raising penalties affects the fight against crime or doesn't affect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the senator? No. Thank you, then, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the President. Mr Andrzej Dera, Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, was authorised to present the position of the President. Welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Good morning.]] Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: At this stage, not unless...]] No. Are there any questions for the Minister? At present, senators can report from a place that lasts no longer than... Then we invite the Minister here to the podium. You're welcome. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u33	Senator Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u34	I will repeat the question I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. I understand that during the committee meeting, this question I asked did not have to be an interesting issue, it did not have to be considered. That is why I am sending them to the representative of the applicant, the representative of the President, to the Minister. And I immediately explain that I am not a person who is opposed to increasing penalties, which in this law is largely present, but I am referring to some rationality, i.e. whether it was not only intellectually analyzed, but whether we also have a pad in scientific research on this subject. Was there any consultation with institutions and institutions that would investigate this to some extent? Of course, I'm aware that we're not gonna get that result here, that if we raise the crime rate by a year, we're sure that the crime rate will drop by 10%. or 15% However, to some extent he can tell us that these solutions are rational, not excessive, in short, will make the well-being of minors and the well-being of the helpless, which we very much care about, better treated and more honored under the conditions of these legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u35	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u36	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer that question. The purpose of the submission was legal protection, especially for minors and children. That was the message of this project. What are we for... Firstly, this protection of the child is constitutionally enshrined, and secondly, it also results from international obligations, which Poland has signed, obligations concerning the real protection of children. The essence of sharpening these punishments... I would also like to make it clear that the initiative on this issue has been shown by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. He was the one who asked the President to draft this proposal legislatively and to submit it. What paradox has occurred in the Polish penalization system? Well, that's how I'd put it. Well, you couldn't see it in any way. Despite constitutional provisions, as well as international obligations, this special protection of the child in Polish criminal law. What did this show? Well, in the same way, when it comes to the dimension of the penalty, it was treated, for example. The perpetrator of a robbery involving a crime involving the taking of someone's cell phone and the perpetrator of a severe battery or child abuse. I think you can see the difference between someone taking someone's cell phone and the fact that a little baby is being tortured. And that legal distinction is the essence of this submission. After the adoption of this law, we will be able to say clearly as a country, as Poland, that every child is actually legally protected by the Polish justice system and that someone who intends to commit the crime the child will be the victim of will be treated harshly by the justice system for this reason. It is clear that the sentence is dependent on the judicial authority, but the judicial authority gets clear information from the sovereign, from the nation, that certain crimes need special attention. The signal coming from this submission is just like that. The key is here, if I remember correctly, art. 53 in which the general rules for the punishment of the judge are laid down. We made it clear that in any case where the perpetrator commits a crime to harm the child, this must be taken into account when punishing the child. This is a fundamental change, because every crime... And these records, which we have put here, especially those concerning whether it's pedophilia, whether it's severe damage to the body, in which we increase these lower limits of punishment, clearly indicate that if you commit a crime and the victim of this particular crime is a child, you have to face the fact that the punishment will be tightened up. What is the severity of this punishment? In the first place, the lowest level of punishment is increased, because this is crucial here. You can't take kindly to the perpetrators of crimes victims of children. This upper penalty is, of course, only a possibility. Judge in the course of proceedings where the offence has been grossly committed if the circumstances have been horrible Let's call it that. It can apply the highest level of punishment, but the essence is the fact that such crimes will not be punished below a specified lower ceiling. And that's what's important here, and that's what's crucial here. I can tell you there wasn't any detailed research here. I'm already answering the senator's question very precisely. However, the general conditions were very strong precisely because children cannot be treated as things. And from the point of view of criminal protection, I think that's sadly the case. You could put such a sign of equality, because the child was treated as a thing. Protecting the child was treated just like protecting things. From now on, after this bill has been passed, it will no longer be possible to say that. A child is a value. A man is a value, and a child is especially important. Why is the child especially important? Because it's self-defense. It is not possible to react as an adult and for this reason must be protected. For these reasons, people who, because of their physical or mental condition, are simply unable to respond to the various situations that accompany us in our daily lives. So that were the conditions, this was the idea of introducing this presentation, an idea that was very carefully discussed during the consultation. Once again, the initiator of this submission was the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. You ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I will repeat my question about the article. 156. I'd like you to tell me why in §1 paragraph. 2 The previous provision setting the upper limit of the penalty was converted into a record, probably in a proper way, indicating only the lower limit of the penalty, without the upper ceiling. Minister, I would therefore like to ask what will be the upper level of punishment in the event of a crime or injury to a person. I ask because there is a period of not less than 3 years, and in the other records of the amendment these directories are either closed, i.e. it is also lower, and the upper ceiling, or the upper dimension is given, the upper ceiling is known. What in this case... [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Yes, I'm telling you.]] ...there will be a penalty in the event of an act...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u39	Recording of the article. Paragraph 156 (2) provides that any person who causes serious injury to his or her health in the form of other serious disability, severe incurable or long-term illness, life-threatening illness, permanent mental illness, total or significant permanent incapacity to work in the profession or permanent significant disfigurement or distortion of the body shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period of not less than 3 years. This means that it is a crime, and the crime is treated in the Polish criminal system as a criminal offence punishable for a period of not less than 3 years, with the possibility of a sentence of up to 15 years, so the upper limit is defined in other rules, elsewhere. We don't change that here. Here, in this recipe, we say that's all we say. And that's the essence of this change. That this crime is considered a crime. Therefore, as I said earlier, the lower sentence is legally defined as no less than 3 years if someone commits such a crime and already the amount of the penalty will decide the court on the existing rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you.]] You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three questions. One shall apply to Article. 53, that's a change in the general criminal code. This is a project that we are introducing new conditions that the court should take into account when imposing punishment. One of these new premises This is the age or health status, but in a special part the concept of mental or physical state is used. The question is: shouldn't the general part also be used to return the mental or physical state? For two reasons. The first reason: the concept of mental or physical state has already occurred before, it is encased in judicial judgments, we already know exactly what this is about. And so this state of health must be re-digested by the legal system in order to be implemented effectively. In the meantime, we want this law to work as soon as possible, so it might be better to refer to something that already exists. That's the first reason. The second reason: isn't the concept of mental and physical state more general than the concept of health? Please note that your condition... Perhaps you can say that these concepts do not overlap completely, but maybe it is so that the concept of mental or physical state includes e.g. The question of intoxicating someone for a moment to hurt him, to commit a criminal act on him. That's the first line. Second question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 240, which is an obligation of denunciation, has so far been a crime calendar, that is, a set of crimes. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Yes, set.]] Now we add crimes against young, helpless people. Good, very good. But at the same time, we add lips. 2a, which disables from this directory... I mean, according to this provision, he does not commit a crime of non-denunciation to the person who has been wronged. And the original version, the draft mentioned the offences referred to in Article. Two, but there were also clearly excluded terrorist crimes. So everyone was obliged to report a terrorist offence, even if it was his victim, and it doesn't exist at the moment. Note: the effect is that it kind of softens this article, the whole article. 240. Because right now it's mouth. 2 refers to paragraph. One in full. That's the whole art. 240 gets softened. Well, the obligation to denounce certain crimes, the most indecent in public interests, doesn't stay... This duty of denunciation is not that I'm going to put it this way, tough, he gets softened. [[Thank you.]] And one last question... [[Voice from O.R.: 3rd.]] ...third, concerns transitional provisions. Don't you think the Minister should be on the bill? [[Please be more succinct, Mr. Senator, because the minute has already passed.]] Good. One sentence. Shouldn't such legislation be there, especially as regards the Juvenile Law? There's some time episodes out there. Perhaps we could use some transitional provisions here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u42	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u43	Dear Marshal, Dear Senate, Dear Senator, I will answer these 3 questions. As far as the article is concerned. 53, that's what we're dealing with here is a general standard. Well, the wording that we propose now looks like this: The court takes into account, in particular, the motivation and behaviour of the perpetrator, especially in the event of an offence to the detriment of a person of age or health. The continuation is as it has been so far. And indeed, the senator rightly pointed out that there is a difference between the writing here in the article. 53, which is a general standard and already detailed records, where the state of physical or mental health is referred to. But why is he here... There's no problem here. Because... please note that this is a general rule. Here, you don't tell the judge exactly what to pay attention to, you just talk in a general way. However, the definition of health status is a more general concept than a physical or mental state. This is a broader concept. Well, really, we've been looking into it. This is a broader concept. And it covers all aspects of what we are talking about. We've really discussed this, we've consulted it. And none of our consultants noticed that this type of record would pose any problem of interpretation for judges. A judge who has a record that he must examine the motivation and manner of behavior of the perpetrator of acts in relation to those who are not able to act on account of age or health, in particular when the perpetrator of this motivation and manner of behaviour... Well, it's a record that doesn't raise any interpretational problems. And that's what the judges told us, that's what the practitioners told us: this is not a problem. In turn, specific provisions must already be very precise. Because they refer to specific states and here there can no longer be general considerations, these provisions must be very precise. That's why there's no dissonance here. The judge simply has to have room for interpretation in general standards. And that's why in general records we use standards that have this dimension. And where there is already a reference to a specific, specific type of crime, the records must be very detailed and refer to specific, such or other premises. About the second question, why isn't there... You took it so that it was a certain softening of this duty. I wouldn't take it that way, there's no softening of the obligation under the article. 240. Please note that the existing standards, the provisions listed in Article. 240, which are an obligation to inform the authorities of the State of certain crimes... This was about crimes that had a dimension, let's call it statewide. We're talking terrorism, murders, etc. So far, we have not talked about the victims in this context. Right? If someone's dead, so to speak, she's not a victim because she's dead. If we're talking about terrorism, we're talking about a threat to all of us as a collective, a society. In the case of these specific crimes, and we are talking here about pedophilia, severe damage to the body, etc., there are people who, under the law, are victims, victims. The point is that these people avoid secondary victimization. For example, if we had imposed this obligation on a rape victim, but for various reasons she wouldn't have reported... This is a terrible experience, a terrible trauma. If we hadn't written it like that, she would have to be punished again. Right? The perpetrator did this ugly thing on her, and you would have to punish her for not telling her. That's what this is about. This record states that it is not punishable by the act mentioned in §1, which has failed to notify it. That's the essence of the record. This provision applies only to those articles that we have now brought in. Before, there was no need to include this because there was no sense in the sense of criminal law for the victim. Right now, they're gonna be... The rape victim is a victim, a child who is a victim of a paedophile is legally a victim. The person closest to you, representing... These crimes are carried out in different... the obligation to inform is, but the point is that the person who is wronged under the law should not be punished again. ♪ 'Cause once ♪ By the perpetrator, two by the justice system. And that's why it's written like that. There is no question of softening this obligation. And the third thing. - Juvenile proceedings. These changes adjust the proceedings in juvenile cases, in cases in which we are dealing with... There is no need for transitional provisions because... the amendment to Article. 240 will require a very high level of information, which is linked to the fact that new legal obligations are imposed on society and sanctioned. It's something on the principle that if you don't do these duties, you might get punished. Hence the three-month period of vacathio legis. The point is to give that information. There is no need for transitional provisions, because the rules of criminal proceedings are clear Only from the date of entry into force of the Act will it be effective... It's about the perpetrators who commit crimes after the time when the bill becomes a law. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u44	Thank you, Minister. The question is asked by Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I fully support the need for such a law, and I would just like to ask what the legislator suggested setting the upper age limit at the age level of 15. That's the question. not only in the context of this law, but in the context of the problems of protecting children and young people, which are often addressed by teachers and psychologists and parents. Shouldn't that age limit be 16 and 17 years old, or maybe even 18 years old, that is, getting a child's age, so that his rights are protected by applicable laws... Then we would have guaranteed the protection of the child from early childhood to mature age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u46	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u47	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, this division is already functioning today. Well, there's a division in criminal law that distinguishes between minors under the age of 15 and under the age of 18. Why did we decide here... Because this discussion, of course, was. And why did we take the first compartment, the age of 15 years? Since some of these crimes involve... Maybe I'll say another way. We're talking about protecting the kids, right? Please note that the law allows sexual relations with persons who are not over 18 years of age to be treated differently. And today, in order to get to the perp's motivation, well, that line has to be clear enough... Well, it's hard at this point, I don't know, a 16-year-old girl to treat like an e.g. 13 or 12 years old. And that's where this clear division was introduced into... 15 years, particularly protected... Because here we're talking about pedophilia, here we're talking about rape, here we're talking... And there are different circumstances, aren't there? And in this case, putting the limit of 15 years is a direction, so to speak, on childhood. That there's this threshold of up to 15 years, that it's treated as particularly protected, looking generally at minors... Well, there's a difference, as I said, between people who are 17 years old or older, and those who are 14 years old and how many months old who are not above this threshold and are treated, in terms of development, not as almost adults, but as children. And here's the thin line that works. We did it consciously, after thinking about it. We clearly point out that children under the age of 15 are subject to special protection in terms of criminal protection. Because if we put them in this second catalog by the age of 18, it would be a big problem, especially in the 16s, 18s, 15s, and 18s, to be precise. This would cause more difficulties, more problems explaining why we are entering this age group. So we've clearly shown here... what the child's spokesperson's interest in was also this first threshold, until the age of 15, was to clearly articulate it. [[Thank you... the senator wants to ask, right?]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: It was I who would only ask for confirmation... It was with the full acceptance of teachers, psychologists with whom...]] Yes. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: And, as I understand it, the spokesperson for the rights of the child...]] Yeah, that's right. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: You consulted on the age limit, right?]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u48	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Antoni Szymanski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u49	Mrs Marshal, Minister, Dear High Izbo, I would like to ask you about the issue which is important, and I would like to ask how far you think this amendment is solving this. Namely, I am referring to the problem of parental abduction, as well as the problem of parents' contacts, which one of the parents, despite the decision of the court, despite the appointment of these contacts, blocks, does not allow them. I think when it comes to parental abductions, it's the altered article. 211 responds to this to some extent, but I don't really see the issue of securing contacts between parents, a child to whom children have the right, which the court does not question and which, well, often also designates if the parents so wish. Does this amendment respond to these issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u50	He's not answering, I'll tell you right away, Senator, because it's art. 211 does not apply to parental abductions. This article says that anyone against the will of a person called to care... In the light of the law, both parents are called to care, supervision, so we are talking about other situations where an unauthorized person, i.e. one who has no rights to a child, takes them away, and this is written here. Parental abductions we've excluded from this. We talked about this at the beginning, but the child's attorney also agreed... There was even a conference on this subject at the Presidential Palace. This was deliberately excluded because it is a separate issue. In the legal sense, this is a very complex and difficult issue. In general, both parents have legal custody of their children. The problems start at the moment of the parents' conflict. In the event of divorce or separation, the court shall lay down the rules for the upbringing of children, the obligations of both parents. And parental abduction occurs when someone disagrees with it, that is, they have the right, but in some way limits the rights of the other parent. And here's the key question: should criminal law be punished for non-compliance with civil law? This is a dispute we're trying to resolve. In different countries, this is different. We do not want to run away from this problem, but it is an important issue and we want to work it well, and this still requires a lot of consultation. For now, we're at the information gathering stage. There was a conference where both the theorists and practitioners spoke. We've collected all the information. And here's where you have to take the road. Which one? Do you want to clarify civil law more in order to respect this law, which is today, or do you want to create a principle of punishment for failure to comply with court decisions? This is a very serious dispute, I would say, even a doctrinal one that continues. And there's an attempt to decide 'Cause that's the problem. not only Poland, what I want to say clearly, but also many, many countries It is an attempt to resolve this issue. Each country has a different approach to this. We must also stand up to this problem, and I think that some solutions will soon be presented, I do not know whether by your President or by the Ministry of Justice. I can say that right now the Ministry of Justice is working specifically on kidnappings that are of the nature of kidnappings outside the country, because that's also a separate problem. As far as I know. The Ministry of Justice is already working to resolve the legal liability of parental abductions of a national and foreign nature. So I think we're about to see the finale of the work by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. During the discussion of the draft at the committee meeting, one of the opinion-makers pointed out that there was a paradox due to the contradiction of the rules. Namely, the rule mentioned here was that in the case of I'm speaking in general. The severe damage to the body, the vitals, is punished from 3 years to, as we already know, 15 years old. According to another provision of the criminal code, if, as a result of such a beating, such treatment of the victim, the victim Although there was no such intention, he died, the maximum penalty is 8 years. So, paradoxically, however cruel it would sound, that from the point of view of the perpetrator, it is better if the victim dies, because then the perpetrator threatens a maximum of 8 years, and in this case 15 years. Was this the subject of any reflection on the attempt to remove this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u53	This is the case with the article. 156 §3, which says that if the result of an act referred to in §1, or serious injury to health, is the death of a person, the perpetrator shall be punishable by imprisonment for years 5... shall punish 25 years of imprisonment or sentence of life imprisonment. On the other hand, we have manslaughter, i.e. Article 2 155, in which, as the senator noted, there is a lower sentence. But these are two aspects. Firstly, in a very short period of time there will be an amendment to the penal code and the issue of involuntaryness will be uniform here, and there will not be the difference that the senator is talking about. That's why we didn't want to put in a record that... There'll be constant changes. 'Cause if we put that record in here and this way goes the punishment dimension... The aim is not to create another situation for the introduction of standards that will have to be changed in a short time. So here's the standard that should be. A standard with art. 155 will be adapted to the requirements that are here. And the second aspect, which is probably fundamental here. Well, in a sense, there is a great difficulty for the courts, because really, please pay attention to what it is characterized by... It's about how hard it is to prove to someone who's killing a child... We're talking about a particular case, someone who kills a child, causes severe health damage, which causes the child to die, but not immediately, just, let's assume, after two or three days of agony. And then a perp like that gets caught under an article. 156. And just because a child dies after two or three days as a result of a beating, he's treated differently than someone who killed the child right away. I say it so brutally, but this distinction is fundamental. In short, we want to make the perpetrator of such a horrible, disgusting act, regardless of whether the child, as a result of his brutal attack, dies immediately or dies after two days, in a legal sense, is being treated Same. And so far there's been a difference. So, in short... I don't want to judge it in any way, because it's horrible, but in this case, if you look at the calculations, you could say it's worth beating up so that the child lives for another day or two days to die in agony, because the unsub is treated differently. That's what it looks like on the other side. So it seems that this record of the perpetrators of crimes committed against children is that they will be treated in the same legal sense... Whether someone killed or beaten so badly that the child died two days or three days later, will be treated in the same legal sense. A difference with regard to Article. The 155 you were talking about will be eliminated on the occasion of the next amendment. This is a public announcement from the Ministry of Justice. So there won't be a difference. We're talking about involuntary manslaughter. This is a slightly different legal situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u54	Thank you, Minister. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski wants to ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u55	Thank you very much, Marshal. Good morning, Minister. To the question, you inspired me with your speech, quite interesting, which was to look at the problem of really adult and child relationships, especially at such difficult moments, more generally. Because you also said... And by running into the future... The question may not be exactly related to this bill. Because of course, those who are violent towards children must be punished very hard and exemplaryly. I'm the father of two daughters myself, and I can't imagine hitting children. But I'd like to ask you... Because you actually said that the relationship between parents, especially when you admit custody of children... Parents don't always agree to this, then there are kidnappings, various other very dangerous incidents. But do you not think that it might be worthwhile to continue working to prepare the Polish state or institutions of the Polish state for the fact that when parents stop getting along, when there is such a very personal dispute, however, these parents had contact with children, despite their own quarrels, so that there would be some control over it. And for justice to be here? On the other hand, of course, the point is that these feuds will affect the raising of children and that... I don't know how to put this into words, Minister. I mean, a sense of justice and control rests on the shoulders of both parents. I, when I was still president of the parliamentary club, had such a meeting with various associations; most of them were fathers' associations. And it was said that Polish law, especially in difficult moments of divorce or child care, was unfortunately closer to the hearts of women than men, which was very unfair to them, because they also love children and also want to be... And perhaps such a collision with the wall, perhaps such a situation, in their opinion, really without a way out. And the Polish law couldn't handle it, and it led to desperate movements. I'm telling you again, I don't want to justify it, but do you see the possibility of this kind of work? You as the Minister or the President's Chancellery Is it possible to introduce new rules, after looking at other countries, on how they deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u56	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u57	Thank you very much. Senator, you have touched on a very difficult issue that actually exists in the Polish system. Not only in Polish, as you have noticed. What is the problem with us in Poland? In fact, a principle that has existed for many, many years has been accepted, that a mother is really in charge of care, and the father is in charge of material security. Such thinking is already in my opinion an archaic way of thinking. The laws clearly state that both parents have the right to care for their children. Both of you. What's the problem? At times of dispute, the child shall be considered to be the subject of the dispute. And the thing is, I want to show my superiority over the other side. And then he who has power over the child wins the dispute, he says: I was right. And the baby is a victim in every case. There are really terrible situations. Because the sense of harm, the sense that someone was wrongly given an exclusive child or that someone's parental rights were so limited that they are illusory, it is precisely that children are kidnapped that children are still objects. These people think: I don't care what the court did, I'm right here. The police are helpless because both parents legally have custody, they're entitled... There are terrible conflicts and problems. I think he's here... This is the dispute about which, among other things, there were long discussions and discussions at the conference, many excellent experts in this area spoke. And it was very clear that it was necessary to change the original approach of the Polish judiciary to care for children in general, in order to give the right to both parents in the first rulings, and to limit them only in situations where it is clear that there are some dysfunctions from a parental point of view. And then it has to be clear to all parties that, because of, for example, alcoholism, I take the first example from the shore of the It is necessary to limit these rights, because in this condition it is not properly... But also not in such a way that when something like this has been decided, it is no longer changed, because it often happens, unfortunately, does. The person may get out of the habit, but he will still be treated as the one who doesn't have custody. So it would be necessary to change this approach so that the courts decide first on a mild... Maybe the word "smooth" isn't good here. It's about the attitude that both parents have rights, without limits, because that's what you can do. It's just that we've been accepted that it's established that the exclusive right has... Unfortunately, most judgments say that the mother The most common mother He has the right to care, and for some reason his father has a great deal of limited care. There are various proposals here, like alternate care, just to show... Once a kid's at his mom's, once he's at dad's. And you have to appeal to all those who have children... to say that you're a parent your whole life, that you have to do everything you can to make a child have a good one. Just because I can't communicate with my partner, with my wife, doesn't mean that a child has to suffer his whole life. So here we need education on the one hand, on the other hand The court's approach and the third party's approach The law which will be precise, which will provide that if there are already dysfunctions, if there is limitation, then there is no more self-reliantness, the law which will nevertheless be observed. So much work is still needed here, many deep reflections and from judges, and from parents, and from the Polish justice system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u58	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I am not entirely satisfied with your answers, so I will return to the second and third questions. Well, to be specific... We're talking about art. 240 criminal code... [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Yes.]] ...which has so far imposed an obligation of denunciation on every citizen in the case of a certain category of crime. Now, in this bill, a new paragraph is added. 2, which removes this obligation of denunciation in respect of all the offences that have been taken into account so far and the new ones added to that list. In part, of course. And if in the case of rape or... Let's just say, if in cases where there is a single victim, it's obvious, but in cases of terrorist offences it's not so obvious anymore. 'Cause there used to be a duty of denunciation, and in that recipe, We're taking it off. Please note that the degree of victimisation of a terrorist attack can be very different. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Yes.]] Unfortunately, this is because we are talking about this clearly: it is not punishable by the act mentioned in §1. And in §1 we have a full catalogue of old deeds and new deeds. And here you have not convinced me that, at least, as in the original text of the state of submission, it would be necessary to remove from this release the victims of terrorist acts. That's the first line. As regards transitional provisions, i.e. First of all, the Juvenile Procedure Act... Take, for example, because it is best to say examples, art. 87. It's about parole from the Correctional Facility. In the added... sorry, not added, just changed lips. 3a new offences are being brought against which there is an appeal from this conditional release. And now, before the law came into force, a young man was paroled, committed a crime that wasn't on the list when he was paroled. What happens when this bill comes into force? And now the question is, are we calling him off his parole or not? It's a crime committed after the law came into force and before the end of parole. And this is precisely about transitional provisions. Shouldn't that be clear?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u60	I'm gonna refer to this article right away. 87. Here are the articles mentioned. As the senator rightly pointed out, we have added some of the articles on crimes that are listed in this bill. They're listed here like this... This provision says this: the court competent under the Code of Criminal Procedure revokes conditional dismissal and manages to place a minor in a correctional facility if it commits the offences listed here. So what's the situation here? That someone's committed a different kind of crime before. This is generally about crimes that are listed here, but not those that we are introducing at the moment. On the basis of the existing law, the court says this: if you commit crimes listed from the moment this law enters into force, i.e. those added by us at the moment, then... the commission of any crime from this catalogue will result in the cancellation of conditional dismissal. So the court will consider the state of the moment, whether, while on this parole, he committed a crime or not. If he has committed a crime from this catalogue, the court shall decide to revoke his parole. In short, this person must return to the penitentiary because he committed the crime that is listed in this catalogue. So in any case, the court is considering the situation at a given time, whether this person, while on probation, committed the crime. And that's the basis for the cancellation of the conditional release, which is to say it refers to the moment at which the offence was committed. If this crime was committed at a time when there was no such right, then of course there is no grounds for dismissal. If that's a crime, just like right now... Let's say we have a state today, that record isn't there yet, because the bill didn't come into force. If someone commits this crime right now, there will be no grounds for absolving it, because this crime is not mentioned in this catalogue. But as soon as the provisions of this law enter into force, the commission of this crime, considered by the court, will cause the conditional release to be revoked. There is no reason to introduce transitional provisions here, because the court is considering the circumstances, whether or not it was listed in this catalogue at a given time when the offence was committed. That's the way it is right now. So there's no problem here. Now, as for the recipe... Because you said you weren't satisfied with Art. 240 § 2a, who says, is not punishable by the act mentioned in §1, which has failed to notify of this act. Terrorist crimes are so important in the public perception that state services have no difficulty identifying their perpetrators, so here we are not dealing with a person who has been harmed in a legal sense, who informs the authorities of the state that someone is planning, suppose, a terrorist attack, in this light is also the victim of this crime. Well, we're talking about planning. If someone did a terrorist attack, in this situation, it kind of doesn't apply... How exactly do you say that? Maybe I'll say another way. If we are dealing with crimes that are committed on a given person, e.g. In the event of rape, the person concerned is the victim of this crime. Well, she was raped. If we hadn't put that record in, that person would have to... Because it used to be a crime that was prosecuted on application, and today it's being raced from the state's office, and the prosecutor can go on like this. If the person concerned had not reported that she had been raped, it would still have been in the light of today's law if we hadn't written it down here. It must be judged by the justice system for not having reported that it had been raped. And that's to protect...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u61	Minister, let's leave these rapes alone because terrorism... The point is, this record has too much scope. In my original version, it was correct, and now... [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: But...]] ...has been simplified, but it has too much scope and includes those crimes where there should be an absolute obligation to denunciate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u62	But we are clearly talking about not being punished by those who are being wronged under the law. Well, we can't talk about people who are the perpetrators of crimes, that they're victims of murder, terrorism, etc. Who's gonna be on this case? Who are we talking about? I don't know, Mr. Senator, it's hard for me to say that it's too general. We are all victims of terrorism as a society. Yes? And in this case, each person has a duty to inform about the planning and execution of the crime. Each of us has this duty. And there's no secondary victimization here. It is simply our civic duty to inform the authorities of the state that someone is planning a terrorist attack, a crime, a murder, etc. However, the situation is different when I am a victim of a crime that has been committed on me. And this is about not being punished by the justice system by this particular person who is the victim. That's all this is about. And that's why this record is what it is. He wasn't here before.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u63	Thank you, Minister. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You are Minister Marcin Warchoł, but you do not want to speak. Good. At present, the Senators may submit no longer than a minute of inquiry to the Government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[I'm sorry. May I?]] Oh, Mr. Senator. Please, Senator Marek Borowski. Come here, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u64	In view of the announcement made by Minister Dera... [[Minister, please come to the podium here.]] In view of Minister Dera's announcement of this paradox between the two articles of the Penal Code The announcement that this will be eliminated by the amendment of this code prepared by the Ministry of Justice, I would like to know what your predictions are. When can this amendment enter into force?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u65	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, High Izbo, the work in the Ministry is currently ongoing, the project has not yet been submitted to the list of works. I estimate it's going to be the second half of this year. The senator is asking directly about the date of entry into force... I don't think that's happening. This year, due to the time of work in Parliament. Therefore, this will probably be the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u67	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski wants to ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u68	Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I will return to the matter we have discussed with Minister Dera, the representative of the applicants. At which legislative stage is this provision On the one hand, the original project was generalized and on the other hand simplified? I'm talking about art. 240 criminal code and the fact that there is no longer an obligation to denounce e.g. Victim of a terrorist attack. When did this change? That's the first line. And two. What's your comment on that? Is this really the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u69	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the project has been consulted with us by the President's Office. It's hard for me right now to tell you at which stage... Maybe my legislators could tell you exactly what the stage was. Is this the way it's supposed to be? Yes. I present here a position in line with the position of Minister Dera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u71	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the Minister another question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Mark Knock.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As rapporteur, I feel obliged to speak in the debate. My speech will be brief and axiological. Well, often in our discussions about good law, there are arguments in the field of liberal law and repressive law at all. Some say that the law should be strict and others say that it should be the opposite. I think that one of the basic criteria for assessing whether the law is good and fair is whether the law protects the weakest. I think that in this case, although we have talked a lot about extending the scope of punishment, about increasing these forks, about changing the category from ordinary crimes to crimes, we should not miss the fact that the main ratio legis of these rules is precisely better, more complete, more appropriate protection of a particular category of weak people. The well-being of both minors and people who are unhelpful for health, mental reasons, but also for various other reasons, social or developmental reasons, should be at the heart of the legislator in a democratic legal state. And that is why I am pleased that the rules that properly protect the weaker have been more fully reflected in the Penal Code. Thank you for this, Mr President, who is the main initiator of this amendment. Especially shocking are those things that happen in the family, in the privacy of the home. There is still much to be done to break some conspiracy of silence in the Polish society, to minimize certain mental raids. If there are certain criminal offences Some of them are now going to be crimes, and they're in the privacy of the house, and you can't see them, it's as if they weren't there. There is much still to be done in Polish society when it comes to some respect for people with mental, physical disabilities. I think that these changes in mentality should also not take place outside criminal regulations. And that is why I see this amendment mainly in such a way that we approach this issue comprehensively. Of course, just increasing the penalty doesn't solve the problem, it doesn't give any guarantee. But the Penal Code is the most important law in the criminal policy of the state, the basic code in which all generations of lawyers, later judges, prosecutors, as well as people who are involved in rehabilitation, etc., are educated. I myself am of this generation of lawyers who have been educated in such a paradigm of liberal law. And it can be said that in various areas of criminal policy, certain canons today are painfully proven. So I think that we should, as those who create law in Poland, definitely show that these are crimes of a particularly harmful nature. Ladies and gentlemen, I was somewhat amazed at the meeting of our committee that during the discussion there was a very polemic position... that there was a difference of opinion between the spokesperson for the rights of the child, who was, as far as possible, in favour of these changes, one of their initiators and the spokesperson for civil rights. It seems to me that the Ombudsman, however, emphasizes this liberal paradigm in law enforcement all the time. I think it's more convincing for me to think of this specialized body as the spokesperson for the rights of the child. To conclude, I believe that this is a good initiative, of course, as I say, effective if it takes place in such a broader context, but giving, especially to courts, an important instrument to combat these crimes and, as I say, to introduce even more of what I call legal humanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, referring to a bit of a scaly discussion about conflicts between spouses and the various illegal activities resulting from this, like kidnapping children just now, I would just like to say that Senator Napieralski, who was not a senator in his previous term of office It states that both parents are equally responsible for taking care of the child in the future, after divorce, and that the court is obliged to take this into account, well, unless the parents agree otherwise, they will come with a concrete proposal, then of course it may be different. This change was very well received, among others. it is because of the fathers' associations who have claimed such a change. Now, of course, everything depends on the judicial practice and it is worth investigating. Turning to the topic of today's debate and this project, I would also like to refer to the polemics that took place at the committee meeting and the position of the Ombudsman. It's not like that, Senator Pak, that this is a conflict between a liberal and a non-liberal approach. The Ombudsman did not question the fact that penalties are being increased, he questioned something else. He questioned that in the explanatory memorandum to this bill there was no analysis of the jurisdiction so far, of how the punishments so far were presented, whether they were low, whether they were still being ruled somewhere in the lower limits and therefore need to be introduced a lower limit and increased the upper limit, etc. And about that, ladies and gentlemen, he was absolutely right. Unfortunately, we're watching. And it's not just the government or president Andrzej Duda, we've seen it in the past, too. In order to prove their concern for security, the ministers of justice use the simplest form, which is that when there are certain signals that, in some situation, one or the other decision is wrong, they propose to increase penalties. It's supposed to be about their particular concern. Ladies and gentlemen, this is easy, let's face it. I'm not a lawyer, but if I were a minister of justice, I'd be very happy to use it because it would show that I care. It seems inappropriate to me that such projects do not include such an analysis, and I know that there have been projects which have included such an analysis and which actually justified it. To make the matter clear, I will say that I am neither a supporter nor an opponent of increased punishment. It matters. Punishment is also a recompense, that is clear. Too low punishments, even in the opinion of the public, are simply negative and give rise to the belief that "colloquially speaking" There is no justice, so this aspect must certainly be taken into account. Only that it must be seriously documented, and in this case unfortunately it was not, and in other cases it happens that it is not. I can only appeal from this place. You're here, Deputy Minister of Justice. However, in the case of such proposals in these justifications there is something that will convince us of such a decision, and it was not simply a decoying of the case, it was not that we accept higher penalties, we go to people and we say: please, the matter is settled. I would add, by the way, that this is generally related to the prevention of such phenomena, as we have been talking about here, for example. domestic violence. Punishment, but the problem remains how to prevent it. Recently, however, we have heard that serious associations, foundations that deal with the prevention of such violence or the care of its victims, have not received any subsidies at all, e.g. Blue Line Foundation. So on the one hand, yes, punishments, but on the other hand, we drop the case somewhere else. Extremely speaking, such conduct may result in more violence, we will, of course, be more severe in punishment and a vicious circle will arise. To conclude, I am once again appealing and to the President, who has a legislative initiative and has presented it here today, and to the Ministry of Justice, to carry out a thorough analysis in these matters and present it to the parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u75	Thank you, Senator. And you will speak again, Senator Marek Pęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In answer to my previous speaker, Senator Borowski, I would like to say that I do not think that these solutions would be an easy way to go. It is difficult to imagine in the area of the criminal code other than changes in the area of a certain system of punishment, i.e. in terms of increasing penalties, changing categories of individual crimes. And I would like to remind you that this is not just about increasing the penalty itself, but also about the fact that some crimes become crimes, which is also very important at a later stage, in the very process of prosecuting these crimes, in short: in the criminal trial. Also very important for judicial case law is that these regulations... I apologize for the fact that these actions will, as a matter of fact, constitute an incriminating circumstance, which is also very... This will simply affect specific judgments in specific cases. And going back to the Ombudsman's argument... It seems to me, however, that there was such a thread at our committee's meeting that... well, for me, it's such an absurd justification: why increase the penalties if the courts are still ruling sentences within the lower limits of the forks? Well, here's a certain reversal of roles. The legislator, through the law, is to act in order to mobilise the courts into stricter judgments. If there is no such motivation as a result of increased penalties, the court will continue to move within the lower limits of the forks. Senator, looking more broadly at criminal policy, one can say that we in the Polish justice system are very often dealing with something like this: an act is at risk of punishment, for example. from 3 to 15 years, and the penalties imposed are still at this lower ceiling of 3, 4, 5 years. The judges, as I said before, have been for generations... well, maybe not for generations, but have been raised in a certain paradigm of liberal law for years, in which it is constantly said that punishment should not be severe, but inevitable. This is the most common slogan of this trend. I myself remember that when I wrote my master's thesis on the fight against recidivism, I read dozens of books and studies that showed faith in the idea of rehabilitating the heaviest criminals. But these myths fall. Well, unfortunately... What you said about punishment also has an element of payback... She must simply be just, and the immanent element of a just punishment is her harshness. If, in some cases, punishment is not severe, it is unjust. So it seems to me that there is a problem with this legal liberalism and that the Ombudsman is a good target for criticizing this idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear High Izbo! I do not agree with Senator Pak's argument that the liberal school, as if the caselaw of the courts, leads them towards such a gentle treatment of the perpetrators. Indeed, the most important change here is the change in the article. 156. It's like the key to this change because we're dealing with here, ladies and gentlemen... Well, apart from living as a protected good, I guess health is in second place, that's what I think. All the more so here, in this article, where we deal with severe disability, severe disability... And there can't be a liberal school here. It's really here. Senator Pęk will stress this, he pointed out, and I also want to emphasise that we have a change in the fundamental crime from crime to crime, a crime that has been punishable for 3 years of imprisonment. It's the bottom line here... Of course, there are consequences to crimes, including conditional early release, etc. It's not just an artificial division. Criminal law entails a number of more serious, more qualified consequences. I have been a long-standing practice and I think that punishments for deprived of human sight, hearing, speech, ability to produce or cause other serious disability have not been ruled within the limits of the lower danger, have not been ruled so. I think that, given the rank of a protected good, this possibility of a sentence of between 3 and 15 years gives the court the proper opportunity to decide the actually judicial dimension of the penalty, and not by any liberalism, but normally on the basis of the coded principles of punishment, which have a very broad scope, starting with the way of life before the crime was committed, the motivation, the degree of guilt associated with this effect, of course... Because, let's face it, everything is relative, proportionate. Another is the situation when we are dealing with deprivation of the ability to produce, e.g. a young person or a person of a very advanced age, it all matters. There's a principle of individualization of punishment. Of course, it is important to behave after committing a crime or all issues related to attempts to make amends, etc. And this is supposed to be the basis of the penalty dimension, not some completely abstract liberal guidelines. Because, however it may be, always the gross mildness of the sentence was the basis for appeal and judgment... and gave the possibility for the prosecutor's office to challenge the decision. I can't see. Although I always agree with Senator Borowski and I never had any doubts as to the correctness of his statement at the moment of inconsistencies in the case of the article. 156. Another issue is to act unintentionally, where there is punishment for up to 8 years, and another issue is to act, if its consequence is death, then it is a crime for which there is punishment from 5 years to 25 years, and the basic form of punishment is from 3 to 15 years, which means there can be no calculation of the perpetrator. It's obviously... If there is a man's death, the responsibility is much stricter, because the lower limit is higher, and you can sentence 25 years of imprisonment or life imprisonment. And these proportions in my opinion are preserved. I don't know what direction these changes are going to be in. But I don't see any inconsistencies in this article. 156. I believe that having confidence in the judicial dimension of the penalty, which will be the basis for the code-setting of the penalty, in the social sense, given the importance of the good protected by law... Seems like Because punishment also has the purpose of general prevention, not only specific That the minimum penalties of 3 years for deprived of human sight, hearing, speech or causing another serious disability will be and will be, in my opinion... And I agree absolutely with Senator Borowski that I see this lack, I see the lack of these analyses, because perhaps it is the caselaw I've had this experience. It wasn't that liberal, Senator... [[Maybe.]] ...as you say. If we had this analysis, we could say clearly: they were within the lower limits... And we don't know that, and hence these allegations, and hence the doubts of Senator Borowski, which I absolutely fully share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski will speak again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As regards the conflict between these two articles, I was based both on the discussion in the committee and on the confirmation of this fact by Minister Dera. I do not know in such detail these provisions or, let's say, how to understand them, what they do. means manslaughter... Whether manslaughter is just that I pushed someone, he fell over, hit his head on the side of the table, and... [[Yes, yes, sir.]] ...and died, or for example. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's I'm sorry to bring this to you, but it's never gonna happen. I beat him, didn't I, and somehow I hit him so hard that he died... [[But that's a possible intention.]] Yeah, that's right, so that's... That is why I have relied on the authority of Minister Dera and I would still like to rely on him, especially since he has just announced a change, that these issues will be settled... And by the way, I would like to say that if this conflict actually exists, then it is a failure of this law. These are quite essential things, and in consultation this issue should be captured. From Minister Warchoł I learned that the entry into force of this amendment is not even a matter of this year, but of next year, and that maybe halfway through, which is almost a year and a half. For a year and a half, judges will rule, and hopefully they don't get this kind of case, because if they're forced to punish them for eight years, even eight years, and it should be 15, I can see how the media will react to it, how the public will react... There should just be no such difference. And last but not least, after what Senator Zientarski said about this matter, in agreement with me, I will only say this: Mr. Senator Pęk, with all due respect, but you have briefly repeated your thesis which you had made earlier, to which I am not referring at all at the moment, I refer to the fact that an analysis should be carried out. You said yourself there are cases where judges find things so strangely, within the lower limits. But that means there was some kind of analysis. That is why it is known that they judge under the lower limits and that this raises doubts. So that's what I'm getting at. In any case, the legislator is fully convinced that the penalty must be increased. 'Cause it seems like we might not be talking about reducing punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has run out. For the sake of order, I also inform you that Senators Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Robert Mamytkow, Maciej Łuczak, Andrzej Kaminski presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 436 and the report of the Commission In print No 436 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, a report on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 24 February this year on the amendment of the Criminal Code and certain other laws. As regards the committee's meeting, it took place on 8 March this year. The meeting of the committee, apart from the senators, was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Justice in the person of Minister Marcin Warchoł, representatives of the Ombudsman, representatives of the Supreme Court and representatives of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. With regard to the content of the Act, its purpose and subject matter, it follows from the obligation to implement in the Polish legal order Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the freezing and confiscation of tools for committing crime and the benefits of crime in the European Union. This results in the introduction into the Polish system of law of a number of changes, which in short The aim is to increase the effectiveness of legal mechanisms to deprive offenders of the benefits of committing a criminal offence. The law in the amendments to the criminal code contains a new structure, so-called. an extended confiscation, also referred to as an extended property loss. The basis of this institution is the application of a legal presumption team, the result of which is the transfer of the burden of proof of the legal origin of the property at risk of losing to the accused or another person with that property. The rationale for applying presumptions is e.g. to prove the perpetrator of criminal offences within an organised criminal group, to make the offence a permanent source of income or to commit a crime with a specific quality weight. The result of such presumption is the determination of the criminal origin of all or part of the property in the hands of the perpetrator. It can be said that this is a rather unusual legal structure, which results from a particular belief that everything must be done to remedy the damage. And in the case of such crimes, the damage mainly takes the form of massive material damage, which comes from committing such a crime. We often hear of various appalling public opinions when the perpetrator avoids this basic obligation to make good the damage, even sometimes mocking the justice system, saying that he has nothing officially, he does not know anything about it. Everyone around them knows that he is a wealthy man, that he has greatly enriched himself with criminal activity, just very often of an organized, mafia, international nature. However, the law does not have instruments that could effectively restore legal order violated by extensive theft. I think it should be stressed that this legislative initiative comes from the obligations imposed on us by European law. So it fits in with some European standards on combating organised crime as much as possible. The very difficult to fight, let us not hide, and use the various mechanisms of the rule of law to avoid the legal consequences of very harmful acts. As regards the committee meeting itself I'm just talking short for now. The discussion was quite lively and, I think, thorough. A very extensive opinion has been presented to you by the legislature of the Senate. It proposed a number of amendments. During the committee meeting, the senators also tabled numerous amendments. The most reservations were in relation to the article. 23 of this law, because the constitution of this article is that it introduces certain exceptions to the basic principles of the criminal code, which are the principle of non-action of the law backwards or the fundamental principle of nullum crimen sine lege, i.e. there is no crime without the law. The arguments of the legislator in favour of the hypothetical non-constitutionality of these provisions were resisted by the Ministry of Justice. I think that the Minister present at the meeting will certainly present such an in-depth doctrinal, criminal analysis, because he is an expert in this area. As rapporteur, I will limit myself to indicating this issue. In addition, there were some observations of a terminology, such conceptual nature. They concerned the concept of moving things and the concept of moving things. These issues have also been discussed and refined in the relevant amendments adopted by the committees. There was also an issue of competence in the operational activities of certain services. It is known that specific measures, such as wiretapping, are also needed to effectively combat this category of crime. And here, too, there are differences in positions and concerns as to whether the law is going too far by chance. In conclusion, the committee's meeting ended with the adoption of a law with a number of amendments and a minority request was also tabled. Well, maybe that's it for starters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u83	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! In fact, I would also like to stress, like the rapporteur, that the sitting was long. However, I have the impression that it was very substantive. The discussion was very intense, so to speak, deepened. Of course, the doubts we had in the case of many cases remained the minority's request. However, we have managed to clarify a number of issues. I think it's a basic issue. This was mentioned earlier, in the case of that draft law, and now there is a continuous extension of a certain scope, some screw screwing, i.e. more and more wiretapping, more and more services to deal with it. I will show you how many services are currently in charge of the supervision of the citizen. We are aware that it is an obligation to implement this directive, but we are also aware that, until now, this law has probably been too lenient towards criminals who have been too easily disposed of. for the benefit of third parties, their assets, they disposed of this property, there were difficulties in enforcing the law or with confiscation of the assets. There's been a collision, so to speak, two views of this bill. I would also like to say that there were also allegations of violation of the Constitution in this debate that we are talking about. The point is, there's a lot of points. This is mainly the case for Article. It violates the basic principle that the law cannot act backwards. And in this case, not only did it work backwards, it was with immediate power, because I will remind you that in the article. 26 We took a very short vacathio legis, because it was 14 days. I would like to say a few words before I present amendments to the High House. This draft law, which concerns amendments to the Criminal Code And I would like to say that also about 20 other laws have, among others. to introduce into Polish legislation the 2014 European Union Directive, which should probably already be implemented in December last year, concerning confiscation of the benefits of large-scale cross-border offences. Because the criminals are hiding this property. I've been talking about this. They're also handing it over to third parties, investing in something else, introducing an extended confiscation structure. The point is that you can also confiscate property where the court had the conviction that it came from other crimes, not those for which the criminal was convicted. In the case of the bill which the government presented to us, which the Sejm was debating at the beginning and then the Senate or the Senate committee, this raises our serious doubts. First of all, the question is whether the measures applied in our bill will not hit honest businesses or honest citizens who will get ricocheted, for example. They won't be able to prove it. It's very dangerous. That property acquired by them within 5 years before the crime was committed is property derived from legitimate sources. The law is to apply immediately, and no one's thought of providing security for any such suspicion. This bill not only assumes that this must be demonstrated, but will also work backwards. This is a rare case, if any, in our legislation when the article is repealed. 4 of the Penal Code, which states that in the event of a new law, the provisions of this law, which is more lenient to him, or the one still in force or the new law, which is milder, apply to the criminal. So far, such rules have been in force. This is where this more restrictive law will apply right away. She assumes that it is necessary to prove the legal origin of the property from five years before the crime was committed, i.e. if the crime for which someone is being tried has taken place, e.g. Four years ago, he must present evidence even from nine years ago that the property he acquired came from legal sources. It might just be impossible. I was also aware of how it was formulated in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council. Those terms are much more so, so to speak, perceptible. If that's possible... In any event, it is said that the court, on the basis of circumstances, facts and other things, must be convinced that the person's property may also come from criminal activity. Unfortunately, with us, there is sufficient evidence to suggest that it comes from criminal activity, the presumption of guilt of this person, the presumption that it was other crimes, and it is she who must prove her innocence. This is a restrictive requirement, especially when the law is unfortunately to act backwards. I'll keep reminding you of that. Nor does the European Union directive provide for the extension of various surveillance measures. There are several paragraphs in this law regarding the extension of activities only CBA. Military Police are moving in. I don't know why you're doing this when it's the Military Counterintelligence Service. There are also various other services, for example. The phone bugs. It's all there. This is a very dangerous precedent. It also extends the ability to use a wiretap, it can be used even if property is at risk of confiscation, only at risk. The property at risk of confiscation is the property of the perpetrator, but not just the perpetrator, for example. the trader whose company was used for this purpose. It will only be necessary to prove that this entrepreneur had to know about this, either assume it or have sufficient evidence that this property could also be used for criminal purposes. In this case, the wiretap may be used earlier before this evidence is carried out. So this is an extremely large extension of the scope of the wiretap. Moreover, the police are empowered to obtain different information from banks, from insurers, from investment funds at all without the permission of the court, I stress, without the permission of the court, that the court's consent is not necessary. These are precedents. I am addressing this to you because we are creating really very dangerous precedents, although I know that once again I will stress that there can be no agreement on the procedure so far. In our view, the question of securing property that can be confiscated is also debatable. We realize that the criminal would like to hide it somewhere very quickly, liquefy it, pass it on, but there is an answer elsewhere in the bill. It may be that if a forced administrator is introduced by decision of the prosecutor and only a post-factum court is to investigate it, it may take a few weeks, and a fully-functioning company may, unfortunately, be dismantled at that time. Because this forced administrator has to control every decision, take responsibility for every decision, and it can paralyze the company's activities at all. We propose that judicial review be immediate, that the court act immediately at the request of the prosecutor, because then at least this review is increased. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that the services and bodies that are involved in this matter are: Police, Border Guard, Tax Intelligence, National Tax Administration, ABW, CBA, Military Police, under this new law, Military Counterintelligence Service and Military Intelligence Service. Well, like I said, now it's the military police. I wouldn't want to introduce one here, so to speak, too strong a language, but I would say we're heading towards the police state. In my opinion, this is probably too much interference, too extended, without the possibility of judicial control, as I said, I mentioned. These amendments, which I mentioned earlier, are therefore the same as the conclusions of the minority. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 point 1 is deleted. This amendment aims to remove from the Police Act a provision which entitles the police to use operational control, including wiretapping, to disclose property for which the property may be transferred. The deleted provision allows operational control in the event of any offence from which it has been or could have been obtained, even indirectly, a property benefit. The contested provision does not mention the type of offences suspected to be committed by the police for the application of operational control, but merely indicates a general condition relating generally to all offences and tax offences. This provision is incompatible with the current case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's what I'm paying attention to. On the principle that the law does not work backwards - with regard to Article......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 23, so that the Court is not put in a difficult position and does not rule on unconstitutionality and that we do not again prolong this process into infinity; that is, The absence of an indication of the types of offences for which control and recording of telephone calls may be applied is in breach of Article. 2 of the Constitution requires the definition of law. Amendment 1 should be combined with the deletion of the equivalent power introduced by Article. 6 to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The wording of this amendment should be as follows: 6 point 5 is deleted. Second amendment: the entire Article is deleted. 23. That's what the Senator rapporteur mentioned. The provision excludes the application of Article. 4 of the Tax Criminal Code, which regulates the principles of inter-temporary criminal law, ordering in the event of a conflict of standards at the time of application of a more favourable standard for the perpetrator. But, most importantly, it follows from the principle that a person who has committed a criminal offence cannot be held liable under a subsequent law. than the law in force at the time of the act. And I think that's the basic premise. Finally, Amendment No 3: "In Art. 26 the words "after 14 days' shall be replaced by "after one month'. We think that vacathio legis in the form of 14 days is really too short, because it is too serious a bill. We discussed this and reduced our proposal because we wanted the vacathio legis to be 3 months first, but we reduced it to a month, knowing that it was urgent. Finally, I would like to mention what the rapporteur also mentioned, that of the amendments tabled by Senator Martynowski and adopted by the High Commission, according to the information submitted by the legislator on the article. Point 6 of Article 1 Point 1 (8) and amendment in Article. 1 adding point 9 goes beyond the matter of the law. Therefore, it could be another one as if assigned... There should be a proposal to withdraw from this, because this whole law can therefore be declared non-constitutional. I'm putting a marshal in your hands... [[Thank you very much.]] ...our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute of questioning to the representative... excuse me, to... [[Voice from the Chamber: Rapporteurs.]] ...to the Senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome. Anyone else? Mr. Senator. And tell me, Mr. Senator, who is this asking, okay? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u86	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for you, Senator Shark. This criticism of this law, which we have just heard, could indicate that the state of the applicant of these amendments and those comments which have been made, are in favour of maintaining the status quo, which is a situation in which the Polish state is quite powerless, because we are dealing with situations where property of great value, especially organised crime... Well, these criminals just remain practically unpunished. Even serving a long-term sentence on income... This indicates that they have excellent income a month, because you can count how much it pays them just to serve their sentence. If this is a multimillion-dollar asset, then no one or almost no one is making that kind of income. And isn't this the objective of maintaining the existing situation with such very noble intentions, concerning certain legislative clarity and mechanisms, the legal instruments that you are applying? I'd like to know the senator's answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u87	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u88	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, if you had been since the beginning of my speech, my speech, you would have heard that I am absolutely aware that too often there is such a phenomenon as the disposal of assets, etc., etc. Seeing the dangers, we are defending this law, but we point out that if we go beyond the right matter, this project may be rejected by the Constitutional Tribunal, as we already had an example in our previous term of office when we had to work again on the project. And that's the only kind of concern we've had. The aim is to ensure the legal quality of this law, so that it is compatible with the Constitution. The basic constitutional principle, the rule that the law cannot act backwards, is here, Senator, broken at least twice. That's why we care. Our Care But even less, as I said during the discussion between us at the committee meeting, it is also due to the fear that the excess of wiretapping and the excess of services that watch over us may be a cause of chaos rather than a contribution to ordering this matter. And that's it. The concern is directed by all of us, but let it be in accordance with the constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u90	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. First question: Mr. Senator, are you not concerned that the measures applied in the bill will mainly hit honest businesses and honest citizens, who will be given a ricochet, because they will not be able to, for example. to prove that property acquired by them within five years before the crime was committed is property derived from legal sources? This is my first concern and my first question. Second question. Nor does the European Union directive, Senator, provide for an extension of the scope of the various surveillance measures. There are dozens of paragraphs in this law concerning only increasing the capacity of CBA, MPs and various other services, e.g. on phone taps. Phone taps can now be assumed with the permission of the court, but only in the case of serious crimes, also against property, even in the case of organized criminal groups. It's all about this kind of crime. Here, however, the possibility of eavesdropping is introduced even in cases where property is at risk of confiscation. The property at risk of confiscation is the property of the perpetrator, not the property of the perpetrator, but the entrepreneur whose company was used for criminal purposes. We just have to prove that the entrepreneur had to know about it. - Or at least suppose it was. So he had sufficient reason to believe that his property could be used for criminal purposes. And here the wire can be set up earlier. Why this record, Senator? And third question, last question. The government proposes new regulations for the establishment of a compulsory company's management as a form of safeguards for a future court ruling. The government proposes that, at the stage of the preparatory procedure, such a decision be issued by the prosecutor with the subsequent judicial review. This regulation was criticised at the stage of the work, Senator, not only by opposition Members, but also by the business community. My questions arise only from the concern for reliable entrepreneurs who have been working hard and paying taxes for years. Wouldn't that be an abuse?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u91	Thank you, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u92	Mr. Senator, when I answer the first question about honest entrepreneurs, I would like to say that I am not afraid of this. It seems to me that in Polish law, in the Polish economic and legal system, it is relatively easy to demonstrate that you are an honest entrepreneur. I would like to deal primarily with those entrepreneurs who are dishonest. And I think this bill is about hitting them, and honest entrepreneurs can be calm. In addition, I can say that my private conversations show that honest entrepreneurs are waiting for this bill. Because these phenomena, which will try to fight this amendment, are unfortunately also hitting honest entrepreneurs in a very wide way. If there are too many unfair entrepreneurs in the economic system, all this, as we know, is affecting the conditions of fair competition and freedom of business. As for the fact that eavesdropping solutions are not included in the directive... Well, that's the nature of the directive. The Directive sets out a certain desirable condition to be achieved and leaves a certain degree of flexibility to individual Member States in the choice of instruments to achieve the objective that the Directive provides for. As long as they are standard instruments It is with a constitution, with European law As far as I am concerned, there is no reason why they should be introduced, even if they are not mentioned in any model of the directive. It's like a splash of a wider debate, which, of course, often takes place here, because you often criticize solutions related to wiretapping, surveillance, and meanwhile I... Well, it's been a long time since we introduced a new law on the Police, a law on the prosecution, and somehow I don't hear any particular information about Poland being flooded with wiretaps, surveillance of honest, innocent people, entrepreneurs. So I think these fears are burning. In a democratic legal state, all of this is under control, and there is also control of the prosecution and the court, and so there are many procedures that ensure that these instruments are used fairly within the limits of the law. It seems to me that in this context it is illegal to present the prosecution as some repressive foreign body which is intended to oppress honest citizens. The prosecution is a very fundamental element in the structure of the justice system, in the law enforcement structure... well, maybe not so much a criminal investigation as a court order, so we should give the prosecution the right instruments to carry out its constitutional tasks. I don't think there's any abuse here. It's kind of related to the answer to the third question. Because you were talking about these special powers of attorney. Well, as I say, there's a dispute between us about what status, what powers, what specific powers the prosecution should have. But it seems to me that in relation to this type of crime we are still suffering from a certain deficit of specific instruments that would give justice the ability to respond to these crimes in a concrete way. There's an incredible imbalance between how favorable these crooks work, these mafia deals... Because they're just mocking the justice system, and often using all these guarantees, all those legal mechanisms that should protect honest people, and certainly not them. So that's my view of the case. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u93	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Bogdan Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u94	Senator Cracks. I'll start by saying that: sometimes it's very important to rephrase. Well, you said the D.A.'s office was I quote: From bringing justice to justice. I remind you that the prosecution is a criminal prosecution, and it's courts, common courts, it's a court of justice. Unless, in the meantime, something has changed in Poland. [[While we were gone.]] The bugs in turn have that in mind, too, as to what you're about to say, Senator. That you just can't hear them. And as for electronic surveillance, let's take this into account that the Police Act introduced the possibility of surveillance in the event of only prevention and not suspicion of crime, and district courts are informed once every 6 months about the statistics of online surveillance. No wonder you can't hear about it, because what court will ask without any signal whether Jan Kowalski or Józef Nowak are being watched or not on their profiles. I would therefore like to ask you, Senator, if there is enough of these tools. After all, a law on police has been introduced, called surveillance, which significantly extends the capabilities of existing services. The Anti-Terrorism Act was introduced and we remember when, before World Youth Day and NATO summit. But the powers of the existing services remain. Why introduce additional powers for existing services and why equip military services, e.g. Military police, the next toolbox? And aren't you worried about the threat of a situation that could lead to confusion, which, under completely different circumstances and at a different level, was probably the reason for Al-Qaeda's effective attack on the United States on 11 September 2001, when one service didn't know what the other was? Based on the experience of that time, the Americans introduced the so-called. the national intelligence community to integrate activities, and the state enhances the powers of individual services, equip existing services with an additional tool, without integrating the activities of these services. Aren't you afraid of that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u95	There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u96	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna start with this slip of the tongue. I mean, it wasn't a slip, I wanted to be precise, in the sense that, of course, the prosecution, like the police, is called to prosecute crimes, but in some broader context, participates in the process of bringing justice. That's what I'm talking about. I didn't mean that he was doing justice instead of court, but that the justice system couldn't exist without the D.A.'s office. I think it's pretty obvious to everyone. In the textbook, I would say, the definition of the prosecutor's office is a statement that the prosecutor's office is an institution that upholds the rule of law. My point is that, in a democratic legal state, it is entirely illegal to show the prosecution as some kind of repression authority, where it is not known where it is rooted, carrying out some wicked plans and having evil purposes. The scope of all these instruments, which we are currently equiping the prosecution with, which, of course, the agreement is wider than that of a dozen months ago, is intended to ensure that the rule of law is applied more widely in the country. This is my answer to the next part of your question. However, we believe that our justice system still has not enough instruments to effectively implement the rule of law, especially in colliding with the most difficult crimes to prosecute, organised crime, mafia crime, economic crime, which are by nature very difficult to determine the perpetrators, the extent of the damage, the establishment of this whole chain, which leads to the fact that suddenly we find out that the Polish state or individual citizens are suffering losses, sometimes counted in millions, in billions of euros. That's what I'm looking at. And I must remind you with a snack, too, that even though during the reign of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, the prosecution did not have the instruments that we are currently giving it, the scale of the wiretap was record. So that it is a matter of more will, of certain intentions, which are no longer so easily captured, cannot be written down into a specific legal framework. Well, as I'm saying, for several months now, there's been a new law on police, an anti-terrorist law, a new law on the prosecution's office, and, so far, we're not getting any scandalous information about the abuse by these institutions of their new powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u97	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Anna Shark. Namely, I would like to return to the motivation of the senator and the group of amendments you are proposing. This fear of possible retroactive action of those provisions which the government in this law proposes... Well, I'd like you to comment on that. After all, in a fairly common opinion, the extension of the retirement age was also a violation of the principle that the law does not work backwards. Because someone who took up a job 30 years ago on a certain basis, and then extended his retirement age, had the right to feel that the law was just working backwards. And that was also the conclusion to the Constitutional Tribunal... interestingly, the Constitutional Tribunal did not share this opinion. Thus, there may be different opinions on the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of the provisions or the law in question, but the final word, in fact, is the opinion in this case, which is binding on the legal system in Poland, is the verdict or judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. So here this motivation of the state does not convince me personally that only the matters of the tribunal are the main motivation for these amendments. Because if that were the case... After all, it is possible to challenge this law to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Tribunal can decide whether it is constitutional or not constitutional. Thank you. [[Now?]] [[What Court?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u99	Thank you. [[What Court?]] [[You laughed.]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not see here as a correlation between an offence outside the scope or outside the scope of the law and the Act on reduced retirement age, because this is not a judgment of the Court, that is, the implementation of the EU directive, which we should, of course, implement. And for the third time, I will say that she is necessary, necessary. What you just said was that the golden rule... the rule of choosing the lesser evil shouldn't apply... we should be a good and legal law. And I think we all, as Senators, as High Chambers, should agree to that. I also want to say that it cannot be considered, for example. The Legislative Council in front of the President of the Council of Ministers as a centre that favours the opposition, and I must say that the Council has also put forward many criticisms. Mr. Senator, there's generally a principle that we should take care of: let's not violate the law... Abstracting from the Constitutional Court, which we believe... Here there may be a different assessment, but it is a law that will probably be challenged to the Court. As I said before, such a serious law has already been challenged to the Constitutional Court. Believe me, this is not one offense against the Constitution. An article in the Constitution that says... That should be a tough rule for you, too. I'll say it again. And every time, I'm gonna repeat it. The others will come for you. I would like to remind you that these others may have a slightly different approach to the application of the law and, by drawing on this example, maybe... Then I would not want to be in our situation or in your situation. By giving any opportunity outside the law, we give such authority to successors. We should really be very careful and very strict about the rules of law, because... Senator, this should be a fundamental principle that applies not only in the Constitution, but also here in this Chamber. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you. I don't know if I've satisfied the senator... I'm going to address one more fundamental issue with regard to these bugs, etc. We are talking about this and we are going to talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, because we believe that we have a great deal of wiretapping under the current legislation. I will only talk about one example that a representative of the Helsinki Foundation asked a representative of the government. The point was whether there was a provision in this law that if we witnessed such a conversation by chance, but did not give such information to the authorities, we might be being prosecuted. This bill is so tight... The excess services that are entitled to... I repeat, it's a wiretap that's not approved, controlled by the court. If they were controlled that way, it wouldn't be... That would be a problem, of course, but at least we'd know it's under some kind of control, and here it's out of control. Ladies and gentlemen, any citizen may unwittingly, e.g. About the purchase... That's what we talked about at the committee meeting. The parent who bought the ticket for the kid, and then this kid makes a felony... Because there's a record here that this could be punishable. I know that maybe it's an exaggeration, but... ladies and gentlemen, the law must be effective, not so repressive that everyone is afraid. And there was a conversation that citizens should be afraid. No, citizens should obey the law and feel attached to their homeland, because they pay taxes here, do not cheat, etc. The increase in penalties, ladies and gentlemen, as we know from previous examples, is not entirely working out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u101	Thank you, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj asks questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u102	Mr. Marshal, I have questions for Senator Marek Pęk. Mr. Senator, as I see it, you're very familiar with wiretapping cases. You said there's been a lot more wiretapping in the past few years. I therefore have two questions and I ask for specific answers. If you use such data, tell me how many bugs there were in 2016. Because you say it's less now. That's the first question. [[Yes, sir.]] And second question. Please indicate the number or approximate value on the basis of which you say that in previous years, for example in 2011, in 2012. 'Cause I've got this data in front of me, there's been more wiretapping every year. Do you know the difference between... [[Asking for a subscriber.]] ...the setting up of a wiretap and asking the operator for information about the owner of the telecommunication equipment? Can you tell the difference? [[Yes, sir.]] If you can tell the difference, I'd ask you to answer the numbers in both cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u103	Well, I don't have that precise data, I'm resisting... [[Then why are you saying things like that?]] [[Well, that's the problem.]] I'm based on what's common in the media... [[Where? In what way?]] Sir, I don't... [[Don't argue.]] I think that such detailed data is able to present the Ministry, if not here, in this discussion, in writing. And I think that maybe that's how I can satisfy your senator. I am a politician and I have the right to say from this speaker what I think is appropriate, in such a way that the issues that are common to the media are such that they can be repeated. The intention of my speech was, however, that the state here is tearing apart its garments on the fact that we are tearing down some constitutional order and order by extending certain powers, and that you yourselves, within the powers that had been given power before, were also on the sidewalk with many laws that you are fighting for now and that you are so critical of us. I, in order not to have such a barren argument here, will return to the essence of this matter. It's not the first time we've faced the challenge of modern crime that if we're such purists and legalists in the field of all solutions, we're finally facing a wall. It means that this legalism is in fact a kind of opportunism, it allows for an increasing development of certain criminal activities in the majesty of law and evident impunity. And here's the fundamental argument that we have to settle. And there are certainly areas of crime for which radical changes are required. Well, let's not pretend we can deal with crime in white gloves like this. Because she's just gonna grow, and the social damage is gonna get worse. That's all I can answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u104	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Warchoł like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question or repeat... [[Senator Zdrojewska.]] Senator Zdrojewska, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I will have a question later. Unless there are no other questions. But now I would like to ask you about this extension concerning the surveillance of citizens by the Military Gendarmerie. Please tell us from which point of the EU Directive this is specific. I am asking this question because I asked whether the law only concerns the directive or goes beyond it, and I heard the opinion that it does not go beyond it. However, the opinion of the legislator and our analyses show that it is significantly higher. So that I would like to include specific provisions of the EU directive, in which it is expected to be extended to surveillance by the Military Gendarmerie. And yet, to reassure the citizens, please tell me whether the Military Gendarmerie, because here we are only familiar with the changes, while I do not know the entire law concerning the Military Gendarmery... Tell me, does this also mean that the Military Police will be able to monitor citizens and not just military services? Answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u106	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Senator! High Izbo! About that. - I'm answering some questions. Whether the law is a faithful commitment to the directive or goes beyond the directive, it must be fair to say that it goes beyond the directive. That's the answer to the first question. Second question: whether or not which provision of the Directive does this provision refer to? It refers to Article. The 9th Directive, the title of which is: effective confiscation and enforcement. Pursuant to that provision, the Member States shall take the necessary measures to enable the detection and tracing of the property to be covered by the security and confiscation, including after the final conviction, and to ensure the effective execution of the confiscation order if such an order has already been issued. The speech here is clearly about effective confiscation. In order for this confiscation to be effective, we need to introduce a number of measures to identify this property. Without these means, the property will not be identified, because, let's not fool ourselves, the criminal, when we ask him where he hid the property, will simply not answer us. Therefore, the EU legislator pointed out this in this article. 9 and we are also introducing appropriate provisions. As for the question specifically concerning the Military Gendarmery, I will say that the Military Gendarmery operates within the scope of its empire. As with a number of other services, he has the power to conduct and conduct preparatory proceedings under the supervision of the Prosecutor. Therefore, I do not see any reasons why it should be excluded from dealing with e.g. laying down tenders, for example concerning military property, or a number of other crimes that form part of their empire. These are the laws that form part of the military police empire, none other than what's under it. It is normal for each service to apply such measures to identify this property. I would also like to stress that the application of operational control is carried out under the control of the court and operational control, as has already been rightly noted here, of course it is and should be distinguished from the question. This query, however, concerns a completely different level of data, asking for so-called. the nature of the hit/no-hit, i.e. the question of whether or not someone has an insurance policy, whether or not someone has a bank account, and not concerning the operations carried out on this bank account, does not concern the details of this insurance policy. This query is not a form of intense interference in the rights and freedoms of citizens. So these are the answers to the senator's questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u108	Thank you, Minister. Senator, one more time. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u109	I'm sorry, but ad vocem, because I don't think we understand each other well enough. To me, this is the case: the police department is dealing with what concerns the military, various types of crimes, including those we speak of in this bill. But what I'm saying is, and I asked if the M.E. in these cases, which are set out in the bill, would be able to monitor outside, except for the army of other citizens... [[Voice from the room: Cyril.]] ...civil cases related to a given case. And I'd like to ask you to answer that question. By the way, I would like to remind the Minister that at the committee meeting I asked the question whether this law goes beyond the European Union Directive, and I have been informed that it does not come out that it applies to the directive. Meanwhile... And thank you for confirming now that she is going beyond this directive, in my opinion significantly. But I don't think you're surprised that when a bill threatens citizens' rights, we feel worried. So I would also like to ask if the Military Gendarmerie will be able to perform various types of operations in relation to civilians on the basis of this record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u110	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u111	Thank you very much. As far as the Military Gendarmerie Act is concerned, we are dealing with a change in the article. The 31th Military Gendarmery Act, which refers to the disclosure of property at risk of loss in connection with these crimes. About what crimes? Crimes in connection with which the military police are involved. And the rule of art. 30 explicitly states that in order to prevent these crimes from being committed, the Military Police are taking these actions. And here we speak of a soldier of the Military Police, talking about people who are subject to a cognitive, power of this service... So that I answer directly to the senator's question: no, this is not a service that is used for the surveillance of civilians outside the scope of their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u112	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u113	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I sign with both hands under this law, because it is high time that you were simply effective, it was fair, but above all effective. And the worst would be if this law could be overturned because of cases that the State might not have foreseen and which, no, may be contrary to the general principles of law. One of these principles concerns the operation of the law backwards. But I am referring to a specific case related to this act of law backwards. Art. 23 but also Article. 24 refer to cases relating to acts committed before the date of entry into force of this Act. What does that mean? These could be actions that aren't being pursued yet... There was a criminal act, we don't know it was, we'll find out about it, well, I don't know, a month after the law came into force. It's bigger problems, at least for me, it doesn't. This may be about actions that are being prosecuted, but the pursuit isn't over yet, and we're applying... I would like to remind you that the new wording on the benefit of the crime, the property benefit of the offence or the tax offence is extended to the definition of that benefit. But also And here's the biggest threat, in my opinion. This may apply to acts which have already been judged by a final judgment in which, as in Article. Twenty-four, it's been ruled a property loss. Please note that these are not actions that are temporarily marked. And in the article. 45, added to the Penal Code, amended and added, is clearly indicated a five-year period of threat of property which may be regarded as having been obtained by crime. What could be the situation, why five years? It's about accounting evidence, because we have a duty, so I heard on the committee, to keep that accounting evidence for five years. And here's the situation: the act was judged, the property was lost, I don't know, 5 years ago, the act was 7 years ago, let's say that the court's conduct lasted short, only 2 years, the act of 7 years ago, the judgment of 5 years ago, so in such a case it would be necessary to keep accounting evidence in order to free yourself from this extended definition of the proceeds of crime for 12 years, including 5 years before the act was committed. It's against the rules. Minister, maybe we should modify the article a little bit. 23 and point out that it is a matter of actions which will be judged or are being judged, not those which have already been judged. Do you really care about those actions that have already been judged? Well, the verdicts have been made. Is this a new way to collect debts and property benefits from criminals?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u114	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u115	Thank you very much. The provisions of the Article shall apply. The 23 and 24 cases in question relate to acts committed before the date of entry into force of the Act. Art. 23 provides that it shall also apply to acts committed before the date of entry into force of that law. The retroactivity referred to here is, you can say, regulated in a similar way as in the famous law called the Law on the Beasts by the media, i.e. the perpetrators of the particularly dangerous. Namely, in that case we were also dealing with allegations of violation of the Constitution due to the retroactive action of the Act. It was then about the perpetrators who had already committed certain acts and were judged, convicted, and that the state had changed the rules of the game during the game. But what did the rules of the game involve? The state of emergency those perpetrators created. In this case, we also change the rules of the game, but let's ask to what extent. In terms of illegal property. Yes, the act was committed on the basis of an old law, but we do not introduce any new types of criminal offences, nor do we state that something that was not a crime yesterday will be a crime tomorrow or on the date of the entry into force of that law. We do not criminalize new behaviours, but we do refer, as in the Act on the perpetrators of particularly dangerous, to this state of danger, which this time comes from the illegal possession of property. Those perpetrators were the source of the threat to society and the state had to bring it in. And it's very good that the previous legislature did it. The solutions that are currently working. Similarly, we introduce these solutions during the game, but we do not introduce the loss as a new institution. The loss has already existed since 2003. As far as my memory is concerned, since then we've been dealing with a misdemeanor and a reverse burden of proof. And we are already dealing with the fact that, according to the article. 45 §3 of the Criminal Code If the property has been transferred to a third party who is not the perpetrator, it is presumed to belong to the perpetrator. We are dealing with a whole range of solutions that are already in place. We're merely modifying the rules and the grounds for the forfeiture of property, which is why the retroactivity charges don't matter here. As in the case of that law, we introduce solutions with retroactive effect, yes, but completely constitutionally acceptable. In addition, Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution, from which the principle of lex retro non agit is based, speaks of criminal liability. Criminal liability refers to the commission of a criminal, unlawful, guilty and criminal offence, i.e. a four-fold structure of a criminal offence. It does not refer to matters relating to the settlement of property and to matters relating to the modification of the way in which such property is held. And I here, Mr. Senator, see no constitutional doubt. These solutions are absolutely parallel with those and meet constitutional requirements and standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u116	You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u117	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... Minister, as I say, I have no doubt that this law is correct and art. 43 is right, but in connection with the assumption of 5 years. We're giving you the opportunity to... Because here's what we're saying: 12 years before today's state of affairs, before the law comes into force, you've been given one, and that's a property benefit... I don't know if I'm making myself clear... 7 years before this was a forbidden act, which was judged as a crime 2 years later, i.e. 5 years before the law entered into force. And that's where it's all right, all the arrangements are fulfilled. But here's the problem: only five years stick to accounting evidence. The State, by preventing the proof that this property 12 years ago has been properly achieved, is preventing the defence. That's where we're gonna start. I don't know if I'm making myself clear... The point is that the problem is not on time, it's on time, it's on time, actually, but indirectly, because it's about preventing the defence from being held back by such, rather than other locations of a transitional provision and a material provision. Their mutual correlation causes that, yes, since the entry into force of this law, everything will be In quotation marks It was true, but... Although you can also invent such cases that you do not, it is depending on what the statute of limitations is for 10 years, you can also, in quotes, throw out this law. But transitional provisions plus this material provision make it impossible by definition for the legislator to defend himself, that is to say, to prove by the convicted But still having certain rights That the property was obtained correctly by him. I don't know if I'm making myself clear. This is not about transitional provisions as such.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u118	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, we're talking, considering it on different levels. In this case, it is essential that the perpetrator should not wonder how to legalise property, only in the situation of legal acquisition of property, he is able to demonstrate it with certainty and of course. We're not dealing with... we shouldn't give protection to behaviors that are illegal behaviors, and then we'll figure out how to legalize it. Here a slightly different perspective is taken into account in the senator's question, and another is the perspective from which we look at it. We say this: if the perpetrator has acquired the property legally, then there is necessarily evidence to prove it. There are flows in accounts, there are transfers. It's obvious. I am certainly able to demonstrate how I bought an apartment or a car 10 years ago. But if someone acquires property illegally and then wants to legalize it, collect evidence, documents, yes, they will have a problem. So we're burning for this problem from two different perspectives. He absolutely doesn't deserve the protection of the criminal who acquired the property illegally, and right now he's wondering how to legalize it, how to prove the opposite. And we're not gonna help him with that. I don't see the need for us to put in the protection of people who... and this isn't just a matter of someone losing the receipt, it's lost the invoice. The property acquisition system is, you can say, a network of connections, so it's not that easy and simple... It's not gonna be like somebody lost a receipt, an invoice, and they're gonna get convicted. No. Yes, it leads to evidence, there's a presumption here, but the presumption consists of a presumption and a presumption. And after all, the D.A.'s gonna have to prove something to charge him with illegal property, too. He will have to prove, first of all, that there is property, that this property is connected with a crime, that this property was eventually transferred to third parties... And only then will this result in the presumption that this property is thought to come from one crime or another. That's the basis of presumption and the conclusion of presumption. So that the defendant will not be left alone, he will not have to command, colloquially speaking, that he is a camel, he will not carry out the entire command. It will be the prosecutor who will be burdened with quite a burden of proof in terms of proving the whole presumption. And the presumption? Yes, it will be passed on to the defendant, but, I repeat, if he has purchased this property legally, he will successfully prove it. On the other hand, they do not deserve to protect those criminals who acquired this property illegally, and now they will try to legalize it, seek witnesses, seek evidence that they have acquired it legally. These people don't deserve protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u120	Thank you, Minister. Minister, I have a question about the wiretap statistics you asked Senator Blackobay about. I'd like to ask you that question. I'm not talking about phone records. In this press release, several hundred thousand bugs were reported, but most of all, they were phone records. How many of these bugs, according to your knowledge, were there in 2015 and how many in 2016?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, when it comes to phone records, the question is... [[I'm not asking about the phone records.]] No... The wiretap? [[The wiretap.]] Sure. So we're talking about... [[...the wiretap.]] ...to obtain data from retention, retention data. Here we have 3 levels: geolocation query, i.e. asking if a person logged in at a given location; asking if the phone number belongs to a given person; asking if there was a connection between this number and this number. We're not asking for that. We're asking for operational control. Right now, we're asking for a wiretap. Mr. Marshal, straight answer: I don't know. I'm sure... I know that such data have been presented to the High House or the Sejm in previous years. It's official, but I can't remember it right now. I'm committed to giving the Marshal a written reply. These data, as far as I know, were prepared by the department of home affairs and administration. I suppose, in agreement with our department in previous years, but I didn't handle it, I didn't follow it. So that when it comes to operational data, the data from the operational control of conversations, we will prepare and transmit this data.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u122	Thank you very much. In that case, I will ask for information in writing concerning 2015 and 2016. The D.A.'s office, as far as prosecutors' applications are concerned, as well as judicial conclusions... Service requests are a separate matter. Such statistics are communicated only to the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate when it comes to parliament. Senator Silence is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u123	Minister... [[Voice from the room: The microphone is not on.]] Can you hear it now? I can hear you. [[Voice from the room: Now it is.]] Minister, I have a question about a possible civil action to determine that the property in question is not derived from a criminal offence and is not subject to forfeiture. Such an action shall be provided for The right to claim it is given to the person who acquired property from the perpetrator of the crime by transferring it. Such a person, i.e. the purchaser, may act against the presumption in Article. 45 §3. The point is that, despite the disposal of such property to a third party, it is assumed that the perpetrator still owns it. And art. 45 §3 gives the buyer from the perpetrator the right to bring civil action, or something like that, to call it an anti-executive action, if he were to seek here an analogy to the C.P., an action which seeks to prove that the purchaser is the owner, not the perpetrator of the crime. And my question is: could there be any similar action here in relation to the perpetrator himself who is affected by this loss? If yes, whether or not such civil action Is it in the first instance that I was talking about by the buyer of property from the perpetrator, or would it be, if he accepted, which, in my opinion, is doubtful that the perpetrator himself could bring a similar action, affect the suspension of criminal proceedings? I'm sorry to ask you this, but it's, of course, within the framework of such a legal inquiry. The Minister must not necessarily be prepared for this at any time. But I wonder what you think of as a lawyer and a vice minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u124	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u125	Thank you very much. Indeed, the action has its reasons, because if the perpetrator transferred the property to a third party, it is under Article. 45 §3 which I have already mentioned today, the criminal code is presumed to belong to the perpetrator himself. Right? Therefore, this property will be lost and therefore the protection of this third party is necessary and justified. And that's what's behind the protection of this third party and its interests. But in the case of the perpetrator, I don't see the need. Why would we protect him in this case with an action? I find it hard to imagine now, so hotly, who would be charged with this action, who would be charged with such an action. Besides, the unsub's already running an anti-doubt on the grounds of art today. 45 §2, is subject to an antidote. And that's where he has to show it. Therefore, it would be unnecessary to construct another action under which such evidence would lead, but it would be unnecessary, you might say, to multiply the existences. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much. I think so, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u126	Thank you very much. That's what the senator thinks, too, isn't it? Are there any more questions? [[No questions.]] No questions, so thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! For many, many years I have worked as a man of the economy, but also for many years I have worked on all forums of the economic self-government. And in these forums of the economic self-government we often wondered how many more of us, entrepreneurs, will meet the various hard-solving issues of every authority that came to rule in its own time. Today, Ladies and Gentlemen, High Izbo, Poland is obliged to introduce rules on expanded confiscation. We all understand that, especially honest entrepreneurs. It is clear and obvious to us, but as it has often been for the past year and a half I observe it personally. The Government of Law and Justice has often used this as a pretext to equip the special forces and uniforms with further surveillance instruments. Very often we hear from representatives of the PiS that this is intended to improve effectiveness. I'm also in favour, just remember that we heard the same thing in the Police Act, we heard the same thing in the Internet surveillance, we heard the same thing in the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, and now we hear again that surveillance must proceed to ensure effective prosecution of criminals. Let me remind you that you have already imposed a penalty of 25 years, e.g. for misinvoicing. What else can entrepreneurs expect? Soon all public entrepreneurs will be treated as potential criminals. Of course, High Izbo, Dear Senators, we are in favour of punishing dishonest entrepreneurs. I speak to you not as a politician, but as an entrepreneur for over 25 years But, as I said at the outset, dishonest. I am absolutely in favour of punishing dishonest people because I have struggled with them myself, we often met at tenders and lost only because they were dishonest. However, applying such a pattern to all entrepreneurs puts them in a single bag and it may be that everyone can become guilty because everyone will be able to observe. Ladies and gentlemen, there are several paragraphs in this law regarding the extension of the capabilities of the CBA, the Military Gendarmerie, various other services, e.g. with regard to the use of telephone bugs. Now phone taps can be assumed with the permission of the court, and only in the case of serious crimes, including property, in the case of organized criminal groups. That's all, that kind of crime is in there. However, there is a greater possibility of eavesdropping, which can be used even in cases where property is at risk of confiscation. The property at risk of confiscation is the property of the perpetrator, but not just the perpetrator, for example. the trader whose company was used in connection with the offence. It is only necessary to prove that this entrepreneur had to know about it either assumed it or had sufficient reason to know that this property could be used for criminal purposes. Here the wiretap can be used earlier before this evidence is carried out. So this is an extremely large extension of the scope of the wiretap, once again, this is an extremely large extension of the scope of the wiretap. Moreover, the police are empowered to obtain different information, e.g. from banks, insurance, investment funds, without the court's approval at all. There's no court consent at all. Should this certainly be the case in a state of law, or should it be in an authoritarian state, where at any time it is simply possible to close? The government also proposes new regulations on the establishment of a compulsory management board as a form of safeguards for a future court ruling. At the stage of the preliminary investigation, the government wants a prosecutor to issue such an order with the subsequent judicial review. In this way, you will bankrupt many companies. I believe that this is an assassination of Polish companies. The D.A. will therefore decide the fate of the companies. What if he was wrong? Who will return the money to these entrepreneurs? Dear Senators, isn't this bill worth improving yet? Senator Anna Sztark also called for this. Why am I talking about this here? For there were honest entrepreneurs from Małopolska: Paweł Rey, Lech Jeziorny. They were honest entrepreneurs. So often we talk about the integrity of prosecutors, and we've seen what the prosecutor did to entrepreneurs who, as bankrupts, wrongly accused, struggle with the law. Even Senator Czerwiński, who is not from the Platform, but from the PiS, has doubts here. Isn't it right to appeal not to make a bill on your knees and then not correct it again? I'll leave you to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u128	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I fully support what Marshal Anna Grażyna Sztark has presented to you as a minority motion. I support amendments that have not been accepted by the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I will clearly focus on this matter and return to, to a delicately speaking, very conversional, and in my opinion, the non-constitutional provision of the article. 23, which is of the nature of an intertemporal standard. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first law in which, with noble assumptions, the European directive is here, and it is right to introduce... This was the case with VAT rules, where, by the way, completely different stories were introduced concerning e.g. surveillance in criminal cases and other minor cases. And here, unfortunately, the situation is similar. Minister, I absolutely cannot agree with your argument that it is the same, that it is similar to what was in the so-called. The beasts bill. There have been judgments, including international decisions, on issues relating to the security of citizens. There, indeed, the principle of lex retro non agit has been touched, but it has been duly justified. And there's absolutely no analogy here. Here we are dealing, maybe not with the principle of nullum crimen sine lege or the principle of lex retro non agit, but with the violation of the principle of nulla poena sine lege, i.e. there is no penalty without a law. Artificial, completely unconvincing, or even, I would say, the wording contained in the justification for the submission is frivolous. They are contrary to what you just said in your speech. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, it is stated that it is indicated in the article. The 23 provisions of the two codes, namely the Penal Code and the Tax Criminal Code, do not refer to penalties or criminal measures, and the change in the scope and manner of application of the rules consisting of the structure of the offence does not affect the principle of lex retro non-agit criminal law, since these provisions do not affect the principle of lex retro non-agit criminal law. I quote: It cannot be regarded as aggravating with retroactive effect the penalty for committing a crime. Today you admitted that this is a retrospection. Of course it is. Even in the area of the criminal code, the forfeiture of objects constitutes a kind of criminal measure. And our Legislating Office would say clearly: with a snake, which is a thick font. It stressed that. According to the doctrine, the directive of the judicial dimension of the penalty applies to the forfeiture. The position that the offence is not a criminal measure does not take account of the multi-level nature of the measure. The doctrine is very broad in this area. So artificial separation doesn't mean it's clearly not a criminal measure. Where's the principle of nulla poena sine lege? Of course, we are in favour of felony offenders taking away the proceeds of crime, but taking into account the sacred principles of the law. Let me remind you, Minister, that right now there are measures that have tax offices, just a 70% tax, if I remember correctly. From undisclosed property. Well, excuse me, there's an instrument. 70% that kind of property that is not justified can be taken away; we have an instrument. [[That doesn't change.]] What are you waiting for, I ask? There are certain rules that should, of course, be applied in the future. And in this case, there's full law... [[Yes, sir.]] We can't seriously argue and violate the rules. I'm not surprised, because Senator Jackowski is not a lawyer, he compares criminal cases with pension cases, etc. I understand he's completely confusing the range. It's clear. Because he's not a lawyer. But I'm addressing the Minister. There can be absolutely no agreement to this. However, this does not mean that the perpetrators who illegally acquired their wealth can go unpunished in abundance. That's not the point. The services are from actually operating, but the legal instruments must be implemented in accordance with the rules and there should be no derogation from that. That's right, that's the cobweb. This has been mentioned here before. The services, which have different powers, can undoubtedly have a different effect, because the services are very often competing with each other, do not work properly, which makes them ineffective, according to the principle where the cooks six There's nothing to eat. I don't think that's the way. I would therefore like to say, in support of the need for a directive and without questioning what is the merit of the law, that unfortunately this transitional provision, in particular the article. 23, in my opinion, absolutely cannot stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u130	Thank you, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. For the record, the senators... [[There isn't.]] Oh, good. Nobody gave a speech to the protocol. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Anna Sztark. You too? [[No, no.]] Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[No.]] Would the Minister like to comment on the conclusions? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No, thank you very much.]] As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and... Oh, yeah, closing the discussion. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts. The text of the Act is contained in print No 426 and the report of the Commission In print No 426 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions on... [[Louder, louder.]] [[Louder, Mr. Senator.]] ... concerning the law adopted by the Sejm on the amendment of the law on the system of common courts. The proposed amendments to the Act lead to the orderly functioning of the Boards of Directors because of the need to improve the efficiency of human resources management in common courts. They concern the rules on the appointment and dismissal of the directors of the courts and their alternates, the rules on the professional independence of the directors of the courts, as well as the taking by the Presidents of the courts of activities with financial implications. The amendment provides for the separation of functions in the field of judicial administration, which fall within the competence of the President of the Court, relating to the performance of judicial tasks and administrative activities, which fall within the competence of the Director of the Court. The draft introduces changes to the service liability of the Director of the Court. The head of the court will be the Minister of Justice, while the President of the court will act in the field of labour law with respect to the head of the court, excluding the activities reserved for the Minister of Justice. In line with the proposed amendments, the appointment and dismissal of the directors of the courts and the deputy directors of the courts will take place on the basis of the establishment of the Labour Code. With regard to the appointment of deputy directors of the courts, the principle is maintained that appointment to that position is possible if special considerations so warrant, including the size of the court and the size of its tasks. At the committee meeting, two proposals were made: a motion for rejection of a law which was not supported by the committee and a proposal for adoption of a law without amendments, which was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u132	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? Senator... Senator... [[Yes, I do, sir...]] [[Voice from the room: Zdrojewska.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u133	Mr. Marshal, well, Mr. Marshal... [[At my age, it happens.]] Dear Senator rapporteur, I would just like to ask, because I am not a member of the committee that has given this opinion... Please also state the reasons for these changes. You're welcome. Thank you. [[I just gave you a reason. The justification is to increase the efficiency of the management of the court's staff.]] But so much deeper. Well, I understand that... because it's very general. Well, what's gonna improve, how I'd like to find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u134	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u135	First of all, the amendment is intended to prevent situations such as those of the court in Krakow, where allegations were made by the director and some of the court's employees. Well, the prosecutor also filed for the waiver of immunity to the President of the Court himself. I think that this amendment will significantly improve the possibility of recalling such directors and setting up new directors in their place.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u136	There you go, Senator. Senator Zdrojewska again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u137	I'm sorry, but I think this is, as I understand it, a more likely justification for the change, which is precisely the reference to such a case as this. happened in a court of law in Cracow. And I understand that. However, I do not understand what this is to change the bill. That's the reason to change the head of the court. Well, let me give you an example. If, for example, The rector will commit the crime, and we will change the law on higher education by subpoenaing the rectors of the minister? But it's... So I'm gonna keep digging and ask you to give me a reasonable explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u138	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u139	The contest procedure didn't work out, we have some very clear examples. The amendment provides for the separation of functions in the field of judicial administration, which falls within the competence of the President of the Court, and functions in the area of the administration of the court itself, which will belong to the Director of the Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u140	That and I have a question, Mr. Rapporteur. The explanatory memorandum states that, according to this draft law, the competition procedure will not be applied because it was long-lasting and does not always provide for the possibility of quickly and effectively filling the position of director or deputy director. Do you know any statistics that would justify it or show it? Was there anything to be said about this at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u141	At the committee meeting, there was no question about this prolonged competition procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u142	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u143	Mr. Senator, you say this is about separation of administration and case law. But this is nothing new, because such separation has long been the subject of a decision of the Constitutional Tribunal of November 2013. And this principle has been confirmed by the Court. However, the Court expressly stated that, in such a situation, the authorities, the President and the Assembly, should have an impact on the appointment and appeal. Then why does this law go against the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u144	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Because the solutions that are now have not worked out. The President of the court in Krakow had an influence on the appointment of the director and, as all points out, acted in an organized criminal group. Well, the D.A.'s office is talking about filing charges, which is why she's requested the waiver of immunity. It just didn't work. [[But that's a crime.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u146	All right. And can it happen, Mr. Senator, that the director appointed by the Minister will also be in a criminal group? In theory?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u147	I'm sure it can't be ruled out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u148	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Minister Patrick Jak, wish to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u149	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The proposed amendment is, in fact, a small amendment, essentially changes 2 elements. First of all, he arranges matters relating to the supervision of the Director of the Court in such a way that the Chief Executive of the Court will not be the President of the Court now, but the Minister of Justice. What is the cause of this? This is caused, among other things. a discussion on the efficiency of the judiciary that has been under way for months. One of the basic demands of the judge's community is to... Otherwise, judges often say that they could work faster, that the duration might not be as big if we didn't. In the sense of executive authority They better organized their work and had they not had to deal with many responsibilities that were not relevant to case law. This project is a bit of a match for such expectations. From now on, the President of the Court will no longer have to supervise how the Director of the Court is acting strictly administratively, how he solves simple cases starting with those related e.g. with paper for printers for matters relating to the remuneration of individual employees, etc. The President of the Court will have more time to concentrate on the most important activity, which is the quality of case law. This is one element introduced in this amendment. The second element concerns the competition procedure. She's gonna change first of all in such a way that it's gonna be much faster. These are the two changes I'm proposing to the High Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u150	Thank you, Minister. Are there any questions for the Minister? Senator Piotr Zientarski, and then Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u151	Minister, I can't agree... I don't know why you're putting things in such a way as if, at the moment, the directors of the courts were appointed... The discussion of this duality has long since passed, so to speak. I remember the presidents were against it, but the directors were rooted in it. It's a relief you've been talking about for years. The presidents don't do paper. There are directors and these directors are now under the authority of the Minister, preparing the budgets of the courts, etc. There's nothing different about the division of powers between directors and CEOs. However, the directive was broken, the Court's justification, which had already settled these issues in 2013. The Court knew that this dualism could remain, but the President and the Assembly of Judges should have an influence on the election. This does not, of course, mean that he is not to be subject to the Minister, as it has been so far. I ask why, then, this discretionary authority of the Minister is introduced and these judicial authorities are deprived of these powers contrary to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u152	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, nothing that is presented in this amendment is contrary to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal confirmed this dualism in 2013 and actually mentioned that, for example, at least an opinion, optionally, may be expressed by the General Assembly in the procedure of appeal of the Director of the Court, e.g. Judges, within the institutional framework concerned. But the fact that we have so far had a situation in which, despite the dualism found in 2013, the Constitutional Tribunal... He has clearly separated that there is a judicidal activity of the court, which is part of the administration of justice, and we cannot really go in, but there is an administrative activity where the executive authority, which is responsible for the budget, is responsible for the efficiency of the organisation, the spending of the budget, should play a key role. The only problem was that there was one point left that caused a mess in the system. This point stated that the head of the court is the President of the court. And it made the head of the court often didn't really know who to listen to. And in practice, he was just listening to the president of the court. And there's been a situation like this. I've got some examples here. As in the District Court in Świdnica, where the decision of the President of the Court exceeded the financial plan by almost PLN 1 million. We want... And there were more examples like that. If it's right, I'm the one here... [[But where's the rule that the president is the headmaster? There's no such rule.]] Well, he's been to the U.S.P. so far. [[No, there's no...]] He's been in the U.S. so far, Mr. Senator. That's what we're changing. I'll find you in a minute if you want a senator. We'll find it in the middle of a discussion. We want to make the situation clear and to make the division of competences clear. The President of the Court of Justice issues. Director of the Court of Justice of administrative matters. I've got a U.S.P. here somewhere. And I'm about to find the senator, precisely, the recipe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u154	If you don't mind, at this time... Senator Zdrojewska, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I hope the Minister has a divisive attention, so I'm asking you a question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: I will try.]] Minister, you said that with this short bill, the competition procedure would be quicker. I'd like to ask you to describe how she's gonna look and how fast this contest procedure is gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u156	Yes, sir. In the meantime, I'll answer... Yes? [[Yes, yes, please.]] Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Senate, in the meantime I will answer the senator's question: this provision is Article. 21 §3 of the current u.s.p.: The President of the Court is the Head of the Service of the Court. And that's the answer to that question. I promised I'd find it, and I found it. And the divisibility of attention, Senator, I do, and I answer your question as well. What will be the procedure for the appointment of a director now? After a possible dismissal of the director of the court, the Ministry of Justice will announce recruitment in the Public Information Bulletin, will pass on the criteria that, I remind you, are very high because there is talk of 2 years of experience in management and directional education. And he'll be picking up offers. We have already prepared such internal rules on how this procedure will be carried out. This procedure has 11 or 12 elements. And finally, after this procedure, the decision will, of course, be made by the Minister. So I hope that this procedure will be clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u157	Does that exhaust the answer? You're welcome to ask questions. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u158	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, it is clear to me that there should be a very clear division of functions between the director of the court, whether it be an appeal, district or regional, and the President of the court, like you That's what he described right now. But is what's happening at the moment disturbing? That's my first question. I am referring to the situation of such an emergence as is currently taking place. That's first of all. Secondly, do we have any... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: I don't understand this question, Senator. I'm sorry, I'm just a little tired. If you could just...]] My point is whether this situation that is taking place at the moment causes the powers of the President of the Court and the Director to become intertwined with one another, or whether there is a distinction that you say should be very clear. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: What's it like now, right?]] Yeah, I mean, what it's like now. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: Okay.]] Secondly, do we have any analyses, except for the analyses that were carried out at the Ministry... Were there any external, commissioned analyses that would indicate such a need for change and such a location? And question three. Well, if that's the case, if the Ministry of Justice is running these competitions, it's a huge burden for the Ministry of Justice. Is this a good solution, in short, from the point of view of, well, a significant burden on the one hand to conduct competitions, but also to oversee this entire staff? Because then we have this transformation. It's not the president anymore, it's the authority of the minister, and if so, it's also a certain supervision. Isn't that excessive?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u159	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, what does it look like today? Well, there's a mess today, because the competition procedure for the selection of court directors, first of all, is very long, but second of all, it causes that, for example, because of the subjective element involved in the conversation, i.e.. the stage of the conversation in this competition process, and the fact that all this recruitment is under the control of the President of the Court... Most of the courts' directors are sorry for such a colloquial term, but I have to use it for the majority of the courts' directors are the people of the Presidents of the courts. Yes? And that's what's causing this situation, even though the minister gets to sign it at the very end... The minister can say that he signs or refuses, and then the procedure starts again, and then the procedure goes on for a year and a half and it's a complete mess in court. You asked me what it looks like in practice. And there are situations where we have such experiences as those already mentioned. It's not just Krakow, it's Wrocław, Szczecin and many other places you've heard about. This is, for example, an example. The spokesperson of the National Judicial Council says: but this is the fault of the Minister of Justice, after all, he signs the appointment of such a director of the court. What's my fault? These were people who worked closely with each other in Krakow, who knew each other and the procedure for selecting the director of the court from the beginning to the end was controlled by the President of the court, and the spokesperson of the National Judicial Council says: but it was the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. And that's the mess. And now we want to say, okay, if we're going to be responsible, then we want to influence what people are for, and we want this responsibility to be clear, clear, also from the point of view of the public, so that people like that. that spokesperson of the National Courts did not mislead the public. We are convinced that this sit-down of the Director and the President of the Court, based on our experience to date, will cause no one to doubt who is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u161	Did the Minister answer the senator's questions in full?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u162	I also asked about the burden of the Ministry of Justice with new tasks. Because it is a new task, but also a certain control from the ministry, which will be systematic, is not just a question of competition and recruitment. Right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u163	Mr. Marshal, the Senate, it is true that now the Ministry of Justice will have more work, but we have made such a decision that if we are to bear public, real or alleged responsibility, then we want to have a full impact on what is happening in the courts, of course in this administrative element, and even though we count on having to work more, to analyse better, we want to take on this challenge, because we have not found a better solution after our experiences at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u164	Thank you very much. Marshal Borusewicz, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u165	Minister, in the justification of this law, it is said that the competition procedure was long-lasting and did not always provide the opportunity to quickly and effectively fill the position of director or deputy director. How many of these were there?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u166	Dear Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Marshal, well, pretty much all of them, that is, all the competition procedures... So this contest procedure is set, that it usually lasts from six months to a year and a half. [[Oh, yeah, like, six months to a half-and-a-half?]] Yes. [[Yeah, but I'm interested in how many situations there were when it lasted, let's say, a year and a half...]] At the moment, I don't have precise statistics, but the situation, when it was over a year, was a significant amount. If Mr. Marshal wishes, of course we'll make very precise data available in writing, because I don't have it at the moment. [[Yeah, I'd ask for a written answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u167	Okay, so I'll write it down: there'll be a written answer to that question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Yes, sir.]] Please, another question for the Minister. [[I have a question.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u168	Minister, I'm here about this question of sovereignty because... who's the head of the unit, the court? [[Please...]] [[It follows that the president is simply the head of the unit. Is the director the head of the unit?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u169	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u170	I mean, it's... [[So who's the unit manager?]] I mean, it settles... [[Who, according to the law?]] According to the law, this is settled by the U.S.S.A., Dear Senator. Art. 8 shares this responsibility and says what the President for... and the President of the Court, and the Director of the Court are the authorities, both are the authorities, each of them has its own responsibility. Art. 8 U.S.P. indicates what one person is responsible for and what one person is responsible for. [[I understand that, but I'm asking if there's a unit manager or not.]] Well, there's, in terms of related... [[Is there two?]] I mean, no... Within the scope of the judicative issues of the manager... [[No. By law, every unit has a manager.]] Right. [[I said, who's the head of the unit?]] Mr Senator, I answer: the President of the Court is the head of the court on matters relating to the judicacy of the unit, in turn on matters relating to the administrative issues referred to in Article. Point 8 (2) shall be the head of the court. [[You're talking about division of powers. And I'm asking about the manager. Is the manager here or isn't the manager here? Because that's what the headship is about. And you're avoiding the answer right now.]] No, I'm not. I'm answering. [[So I'm asking, is the manager here, or is he not?]] They're here. There are two managers, everyone has their responsibility. [[Oh, two managers. Two managers. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u171	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u172	Minister... [[I don't know a unit like that. Two managers?!]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: I didn't invent this. It's a platform.]] Good. May I? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Yes, I'm sorry.]] [[Mr. Marshal. You're welcome.]] This is one of the laws that entered the Senate, which concerned changes in the judiciary. There is also a law concerning the National Judicial Council, which has been prepared by the Ministry. Are there any other laws being prepared? E.g. the system of common courts, etc.?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u173	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u174	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr. Marshal, the answer goes a little beyond the agenda, although I will give you an answer. Yeah, there's another change planned. We have announced that we want to change the Polish judiciary in a systematic way, and all the laws that affect the Polish judiciary, because in total there will be several of them, it is not so that it... Yes, there will be further laws. And we say what is the purpose that we have in preparing these laws. First of all, we want the judiciary to work more efficiently. Chronicity of proceedings is a great gangrene of Polish courts. We could probably also discuss the academic nature of why we do, but we want to take this challenge and we want to try to change the judiciary in such a way that it simply works more efficiently than it does now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u175	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u176	One more question about the whole thing... And will these new laws come into force this year? Are you going to send them to Parliament, or is it going to be a complex, and this year we're going to be working on it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Marshal, yes, I think that this year at least a few more laws on the judiciary will affect the High House, but whether or not they will be passed is... here, of course, all depends on the wisdom of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u178	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u179	Thank you for that answer. I have another question. I am now returning to the issue of the law about what were the opinions of the Supreme Court, the National Council of Courts, the Association of Polish Judges... And if there were any other opinions, like lawyers, I'd ask for information, too. What were the opinions on those, as you say, minor changes, positive and negative?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u180	Dear Marshal, High Senate! For all opinions it is impossible to describe their character, because some elements had such an ambivalent sound. But if I were to be tempted to do so, I think they were negative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u181	You're welcome... [[I just wanted to say thank you for the specific answers.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u182	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you this. You were talking about the length of proceedings. I would like to ask about the ratio of the number of judges in Poland to the number of residents compared to other EU countries. And I would also like to ask if the decline in chronicity had an impact on growth... Was there even a decline in these long-terms? I don't think there was, but... did the length of time have an effect on the increase in the number of judges' assistants?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u183	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u184	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I don't have all the data now, because that's not what the bill is about, but I'm happy to answer the question from memory. I won't be able to name all the countries and tell them what it looks like, but there's a little memory left. Namely, yes. As far as the number of judges is concerned, it is 3,3 in Scandinavia, on average 6 with a piece, in Denmark it is 5 with a piece... in Scandinavia it is approx. 6 with a piece of... And in Poland there are 26 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. As far as chronicity is concerned, if you count off the EPU, which is the electronic reprimand, which is that, I'd say... You know how electronic reproving works, i.e. in an automatic manner. If these proceedings were deducted, it would turn out that Poland is almost at the summit in terms of the length of proceedings throughout the European Union. I am talking about an electronic reminder procedure because in many countries it is not considered a court decision, which is why there are some discrepancies in the data. As regards the third element of the question concerning the number of assistants, the last rule of law and justice, i.e. Since 2006, the number of assistants in courts has increased by more than 100% , and the duration of the procedure in 15 criteria per 17, according to which the duration of the procedure is measured, has increased.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u185	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the long-term nature of the procedure is a major problem that needs to be solved. That is the social expectation, which is obvious. But does this have anything to do with what we're debating today, which is the way we choose, and who should choose the heads of individual courts?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This has something to do with it, although it is not a key law, which in our intention will be a recipe for solving this problem. Well, in our opinion, one of the most important reasons why the judiciary in Poland works chronically is that for more than 10,000 judges, more than 4,000 of them perform some functions, including the functions of presidents, which... I understand that they are natural for the system... Of course, the question is whether there must be such a large number of CEOs. For example, there is a question that, since the Presidents have been the superiors of the courts so far, they have necessarily spent a great deal of time analysing the work of the directors of the courts. Is this the way it's supposed to be? In our opinion, no. In our opinion, the Polish state spends enormous resources on the education of judges' elites, on the training of judges, so that judges focus their time mainly on judgment. The state has developed this elite, the judges, so that they can rule. And this is the system that almost half of the judges represent the judiciary and not focus on the judgment. Right? Of course, this bill will not solve this problem. There'll be more, we have some ideas on how to do it. But he's gonna do a part of the problem. With this bill, the President of the Court will certainly have more time for judicial work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u189	Minister, you gave the statistics on the number of judges per population. Tell me what statistics look like when it comes to the number of judges per number of cases in Europe. It's about the bedding.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u190	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u191	It doesn't concern the subject, which is why I don't have such statistics here. We would be happy to bring the appropriate material for another meeting. The debate on the judiciary in the High House is probably going to be a lot this year in relation to the laws that we are going to bring. We're going to give this data very precisely. To answer your marshal's question in general, if I were to include the EPU, it would probably turn out we're in the middle. But if we count off the EPU, which in many countries doesn't count for statistics, our statistics would be terrible. There are several million cases in the electronic proceedings and smarter commentators who defend the current status quo, including these proceedings in the overall number of proceedings. And here it all comes from a vending machine, it doesn't require any... In case of opposition, the process is required and not before. Well, I think it's some kind of manipulation. There are two types of statistics. Let the High Chamber decide which statistics is in the assessment of the High Chamber more fully, more effectively.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please, until we're exhausted... [[To run out of who?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[To the exhaustion of the questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u193	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Two simple numbers, please. How many vacancies are there in the courts right now? That's the first question. Two. How many judges have been seconded to the Ministry of Justice and how many are currently working at the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u194	In this case, I am not prepared to answer either, because this does not concern the subject matter. I'll tell you by heart. I may be a little bit wrong about the facts, but I'm sure I'll be close. As far as the number of vacancies is concerned, I think there's about 400. With regard to the number of judges seconded to the Ministry of Justice, this is certainly a number of over 100. In order to answer the marshal's possible further question immediately, this number has not increased significantly since our predecessors.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u195	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u196	I'll answer it. There's 500 vacancies. The number of judges... I think 153 judges are working at the Ministry of Justice right now. Is it still this number or is it already...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u197	It's like I said, Mr. Marshal. I said there's over 100 judges. I can't give you a precise number, but it's similar to the number of judges working in the days of our predecessors. And I'll tell the marshal what that number comes from. This number comes from among others. by judgment of the Constitutional Court, which was polite to specify that only judges may exercise administrative supervision over judges. That's why the Ministry of Justice has no choice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u198	That's all. Thank you. Senator Łyczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u199	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! I'm aware of two cases that show a remarkable length of proceedings. These cases concern farmers who hoped they had sold grain. They didn't get the money for it. One case concerns Jantur, the other concerns Szudzik. Things have been going on for about ten years. In the case of Jantur on 13 November 2015, after 10 years, the sentence was finally passed, of course illegal. The crooks, so to speak, received seven years in prison. It's been almost a year and a half and the appeal is finally due. In the case of Szudzik, the procedure has been going on for more than 10 years. I have a simple question. What's the Ministry gonna do? How does he want to reform our damn courts? Whoever took part I took part in at least one court hearing, this will be for a thorough reform of our judiciary, a reform from scratch. What does the Ministry want to do to make such matters as I have put forward here permanent, as in civilized countries, 5 and 6 months?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u200	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u201	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Yesterday I received a letter from one of the citizens who wrote to me: Minister, you on this television are talking nonsense about Polish courts. You say that the proceedings last in Polish courts for 7 or 8 years, and my case lasts 18 years. And he sent me an attachment showing me what it looks like. Mr. Senator, you say there's a ten-year trial going on at first instance. Well, I can... [[I've got the papers.]] What can I say? I can only apologize for the way the courts work in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u202	You're welcome to ask questions. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that the Minister has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Marshal Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I didn't have to deal with this bill because, in fact, as the Minister said, it is a minor change. These are two changes, Minister, but it could also be one change. Instead, it is possible to introduce the law into the law. It would be a very small change, and it would be decisive. You have answered my questions sincerely, Minister, and I thank you for that. You answered without wrapping it up, and I want to tell you honestly that this bill is part of the law complex that the Ministry of Justice is preparing. Some of them, of course, you oversee, just like this bill. Well, I understand you're responsible for this bill. This is the first law on the judiciary. The next law is intended to be taken over by a government majority, which at the moment belongs to the Law and Justice, control over the National Judicial Council. This is the law that gives the minister the one that we are now looking at. Control of the administration of the court, as well as a significant part of the finances. The next bill, the National Judicial Council Act, will give you control over the appointment of judges. The next law you prepare in the Ministry is the general law on the system of courts, which will change the names of the courts, probably also the territorial scope of the courts. With the help of this bill, you will implement what you are implementing on the occasion of other laws. Judges who do not receive a proposal to be appointed to individual courts will go away and be absent from the courts. I am predicting this very worst option, because it will not only concern the exchange of court presidents. It's going to be about the exchange of all the judicial staff, because those charges you're making and the ones your television broadcasts, called public... public television is actually a good name. Well, your allegations and the information on public television, which is the reason for this kind of action, concern all judges. Because I hear that all the judges are working badly, chronicly, and that this is a company of mutual adoration or some clan that needs to be disarmed, and then everything will be fine and the courts will act smoothly and properly. If it were just one law that would improve the functioning of the judicial administration and the courts, I would believe it, but I don't believe it. PiS wants to own two fields that are outside the control of the governing party: self-government and judiciary. You're the judge. If it was really about improving the functioning of the courts, you would have given the possibility to influence the cast of directors of the courts. And what powers will they have after this bill? Just giving awards? What competences will they have, and what impact will they have on directors? And yet the President of the court will continue to be responsible for the functioning of the court. The Director shall be responsible for administrative matters. You're essentially taking away from the presidents any authority that concerns the administration. You also take away their financial control and responsibility for these finances. Is the individual case of the President of the Court who was involved in a case or a matter concerning purchasing procedures or any other... And your principal can't be involved in a case like this? I know a situation where the director was involved in a case like this. But if there are such irregularities, then there are appropriate authorities, as well as procedures allowing such people to be dismissed. And I would have agreed to this bill if the President's appeal procedure had been simplified. You're welcome, but that's not the point. It is a matter of ordering the administration and the directors of the courts to subjugate the minister, a politician. After all, Minister Ziobro is a politician and any other minister, if this arrangement, this system will function, will also be a politician. That's a bad bill for that. I will submit amendments to the renewal of the competition for the positions of directors and vice-directors and to introduce or maintain the appointment principle at the request of the President. I would also agree that this should be done in agreement with the President, but you are taking the President's tools away from the whole administration, because the administration will depend on the Director. The secretaries, the janitor, the whole administrative section... what you're doing is breaking the separation and independence of the judiciary, which is breaking the article. 173 constitutions. The Constitutional Tribunal, which has dealt with this matter, has basically defined what it should look like. You're not trying to draw any positive conclusions from this. That is why I will vote against not only this bad but dangerous law, which is the first step in subjugating the courts to politicians. It's not a good way to go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u204	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am also against this law, because the arguments that Minister Jak quoted, explaining that the presidents will be relieved of administrative work... This is not in this law, because there is no new powers nor the director of the court, who has existed in court for years, nor the President, who is no longer in the current legal state of administration. So this isn't about relief, as the Minister explained. It's happened a long time ago. And, as has been said here, the issue of this dualism was raised in the ruling of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Tribunal dealt with this issue, as Marshal Borusewicz had just said, but not optionally or very gently there. That's what the Minister suggested working together here. Only in a clear way. The Court said: since the administrative activity of the court is an auxiliary activity, a service to the main function of the court, namely the exercise of justice and the exercise of legal protection tasks, the judicial authorities consisting of judges, the general assemblies of the judges of appeal and the President of the court I stress here what the Court says should have a significant impact on the appeal of the director of the court. Not only should it, but it still has significant influence. And this is what the Court has said clearly, accepting this dualism. It's the relief you said was some kind of proof... No. And that's the problem, because the bright thing is... And that's why there's this issue. He's dual, but he's the unit manager everywhere. There is no unit where there is no so-called. the head of the unit, whether his name is the president or the director or whatever... And that's why it says there's a CEO. He represents the court as a whole, even though he is indeed dealing with case law. He, Minister, doesn't do analysis. Right? For this reason, there are directors of appeals courts who come to the National Judicial Council once a year and report on the financial plan, the budget. Right? The presidents don't do it, they don't even build it. But the point is, it's to work together. The directors answer to the minister, and it's a good thing they do. As a member of the National Judicial Council, I was in favour of the Minister having this influence. It is obvious that it should have an influence, because it is responsible, let's call it logistics, for creating conditions for judgment, etc. Yeah, but that's what happens when you interact with the president. Right? You said there were two unit managers... Well, this is a totally weird situation. Who represents the unit? This is a completely unprecedented situation. And of course, traditionally already, competitions are eliminated, as in other areas, in the Civil Service, etc., because competitions are unnecessary, because there must be official, political voluntarism here. We can't agree on that either. It's a clue problem. Like I said... The Minister may know that, along with the National Judicial Council, I was the initiator of the restoration of assesura. It was a good step. I was against what I was very clear about. It didn't like the judges to increase the number of assistants. I think the judge should write his own statement of reasons. Of course, it's not what it is now, it's 20 pages, it's just... This should be 1.5 and 2 pages, this should be the essence of things written by the judge. Indeed, there is a problem with statistics and with the wrong assessment, the criteria used by the visitors. The problem is that a week later, there's a justification, while the principle of concentration of evidence lies... And you can run the case for years, every six months you do the so-called. action, interrogate the same witness again because you don't have a concept About the end of the case. These are the issues that the Ministry has to address, including the establishment of criteria for assessing the efficiency of the procedure. I've got 500 cases pending. This is the judge speaking. And he doesn't really control the situation. Of course, it's not gonna be the way it is in the UK that the judge doesn't get a case until he finishes the last one, because it's impossible. If he's running a parallel 500 cases, then it's like once every six months he sets a deadline... It's completely insane because he doesn't remember what happened last time. He's asking the attorney what his position is, and he's asking him that they're the same as before, and the judge: but I don't remember, maybe you'll remember. That's the practice. Of course, when it comes to the speed of proceedings, the judiciary requires reform, but also appropriate procedures and evaluation criteria. I think it's possible to close the case within six months, even the most complicated case. And that's how it used to be. As a lawyer, I remember that 15 years ago, the first judges were able to question the case of an affair of 30 and 35 witnesses a day. At the moment, the court of first instance appoints 3 or 4 witnesses once every 1.5 hours, for 2 hours, etc. That's the problem with the intensity of work, I agree with that. I will also agree that there are too many judges. I absolutely agree with that. At a time when my father was a judge, there were those judges 1/3 of what they now do, and they personally wrote the justifications. The level, to put it mildly, was not lower than... The judiciary, of course, requires reform, but not in terms of personal changes, but above all, as I said, procedures, evaluation criteria, assessment of work intensity and statistics. We know that civil cases first register in ordinary mode, then they change into simplified mode, and how is the complaint? Or a turn... As a result, one case has four numbers. This is often the case and hence the statistics of this kind. I know that very well. This absolutely requires the intervention of the Ministry and its supervision. I was a scientific editor of one of the positions on supervision issues, and I believe that such administrative supervision should be carried out, but in this context, which I am talking about, but not about the question of the selection of judges or... We hear that this is not the subject of this discussion. It will be the case that the National Judicial Council will be entirely elected by politicians. That's what politicians are there for, 4 MPs, 2 senators. It shouldn't be that the judges are elected by politicians, but that's the case. Not for today. For the reasons that you mentioned here, Marshal Borusewicz, and which I mentioned here, this bill of acceptance absolutely does not deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u206	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm signing off on what he just said about the reform of the courts, senator, patron. The Minister claims that this bill is intended to improve the work of the courts. If that were the case, I would never speak because I agree, Minister, that many things in the courts are incorrect. If we look at this bill, we'll see that it's nothing more than a jump on the entire judicial administration. How can the work of the courts be improved because the director of the court will appoint a minister without a competition? Who will administer this court: its president or the director? For the last 20 years, actually, all parties. You too, when you ruled, tried to move the parties away from the courts so that the justice system was truly independent and the judges were free to go. Today you want to introduce a bill to subpoena the heads of the courts of the Minister of Justice. He will be able to set them up without a competition and cancel without any justification. You want the directors to be such governors of the Minister of Justice. The Director of the Court shall be the direct superior of the auxiliary staff of the court in question, who shall be responsible for carrying out a number of judicial activities. It is up to these workers to prepare pre-emptive orders, prepare and send court letters, prepare files. In this situation, the Minister of Justice, if he does not like the judicial activity of the judge concerned, may issue a commission to the Director of the Court of Justice, e.g. It has affected secretarial staff to make it difficult, to limit the possibility for the judge to carry out his judicial activity. This situation, according to the lawyers I have discussed and consulted on this matter, is unacceptable, especially as regards the democratic state. Ladies and gentlemen, the ruling party has been fighting judges for a year, whether they are judges of the Constitutional Tribunal or they are now judges of the general courts. There are many discussions on this subject in our country. However, you are striving to control every aspect of citizens' lives. I really understand that there are a lot of things that need to be fixed, too, as far as the courts are concerned, and I talked about this at the very beginning of my speech. However, changes must be caused by genuine concern for the State, not by the willingness to submit to the functioning of the courts. I don't think there's gonna be any competitions, that the directors are gonna set up a minister. The question is: on what basis? Who will ask his fellow Members of the Parliament who is to be the head of the court in Gorzów or in Zielona Góra. They must be managed by competent people, not by parties. I will vote against this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u208	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk made his speech in the debate on the minutes and that you submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Marek Martynowski and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Minister? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u209	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Very often in this discussion there was an argument that now court directors will sabotage court presidents or judges, they will take assistants away from them, they will be angry if some judge doesn't like them, etc. The problem is, it's not legal. The rules of law precisely separate the duties between the head of the court and the President of the court. Well, on the other hand, using this kind of argument, as I point out, completely unauthorized, also shows the state of mind of some judges who are convinced that this can be done. To be honest, this reminds me a little bit of this famous case from Krakow; thieves are caught by the hand and yet there are important representatives of the judiciary who defend them. For example, the spokesperson of the National Judicial Council in relation to the President of the Court of First Instance, who was charged with an application for immunity, was polite to say: "No, maybe he signed something, someone set something up for him there; I quote the Ombudsman of the National Judicial Council. Well, if we think that way, we're absolutely not going to come to any consensus. It is precisely your responsibility to respond decisively and decisively in such situations. Unfortunately, it is often the case that the Presidents of the courts expect them to be partners in the public debate, that we will take into account their assessments. But since these assessments often come down to defending many pathological cases, it is difficult to find an area for constructive discussion. If a thief is grabbed by the hand And we're not just talking about Krakow, I've given you a lot of examples. It is difficult for us to have a constructive discussion in such situations and try to defend it so ostensibly. And in the end, I would like to say, High Senate, that I do not know the examples of the director sabotaging the president. I'm saying this after our previous practices. But we do know many inverse cases that the president sabotaged the director when he repeatedly decided to exceed the financial plan and was not interested in anything. He wasn't interested in where we'd get the money or if it was against the plan. I'm the president and I'm setting some options here. And this is the way the Polish state has to end. I know that this bill is brave, but we often have no other choice, citizens expect us to change here and now, and this is just one of many projects changing Polish judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u210	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining. The text of the Act is contained in print No 444, and the report of the Commission In print No 444 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation a brief report on the amendment of the law on hard coal mining. The committees expressed an opinion on the matter yesterday and propose that the law be adopted without amendment. This is a short change, in principle based on the amendment of the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. The second case concerns underground workers in the mine, the possibility of their early retirement. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, the Minister reported on the matter quite extensively. There were no major comments. Most of the law supported, some abstained, and the opposition, as I recall, was small. So that I ask the High House to support such an urgent bill. The Minister asked that this law enter into force as soon as possible, so that the mine restructuring activities could continue this year... this month. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u212	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I would like to welcome Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski. Welcome, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The notification of this draft law is related to the ongoing restructuring of coal mining. This restructuring involves profound structural changes in terms of the operation of mining, including ensuring that only mining-related assets remain in mining companies. Immediately after the first transformations, after 1990, entire state holdings were converted into companies with all kinds of other activities that took place at the time. Thus, in the context of this restructuring, these property issues are also settled. As part of mining companies, due to the situation in the mines, which are transferred to the Polish Mining Group as part of the merger of the Polish Mining Group with Katowice Holding Węglowy There are agricultural properties. I in accordance with the Act on the formation of the agricultural system, these agricultural properties may be transferred with the permission of the Agricultural Property Agency only to farmers engaged in agricultural activities and only in certain cases to other institutions, but with the assurance of proper conduct of agricultural activities. In the mines there are agricultural parcels on which agricultural activities have never been carried out, because once, years ago, mines were built and these areas were handed over to them in such a way that these agricultural parcels simply remained agricultural. And now we have, for example. as regards Katowice Holding Coal, which is transferred to the Polish Mining Group... As far as the total scope of its activities is concerned, its territory... the parcels that are agricultural and partly agricultural are 0.6 hectares, and the areas all over... other parcels that are not agricultural and not mining are 26 hectares. So if we take this into account... It turns out that because of these 60 and we can't make this transaction. The same is true in the case of part of the site of the former mine, Mysłowice, which is transferred to the company restructuring the mines... But also because there are agricultural parcels there, we can't make that transfer. This is precisely the reason for this short law, in which we assume that its implementation will not violate the principles of the Agricultural System Act, will not violate its objectives or interests protected by the Law on the formation of the agricultural system, because companies... these parcels of mining companies are not parcels for agricultural activity, and on most of these plots there are heaps related to mining waste. Therefore, in the text of the Act we assume that only the possibility for the mining company to transfer to a mining company, mining plant or part thereof, which consists of agricultural property. And we assume that this takes place only between mining companies and only if their buyer is the Treasury, a state legal person or a mining company. So this way we do not go beyond the scope of this provision, and at the same time there may be restructuring, which will already lead to such a completely market operation of mining companies. And the second part of the bill is connected with mining leave. In order to restructure employment with the consent of the European Commission as part of the notification of public aid, we can turn to mining leave for miners who have remained until the end of work, i.e. to retirement, less than 4 years, which is 4 years and less until retirement age. Then they can go on mining leave. There is a group of employees who have been selected and active in social activities or functioned, for example. in trade unions, at this point they have the right age to obtain mining leave, and only this social activity of their choice was excluded from typical mining work. And since these are people, you can say social trust, who have been chosen, are now being punished in such a way that when their mining plant ends functioning, they cannot benefit from mining leave, they must return to work underground, and they are usually at the same age as chronic diseases associated with mining work increasingly affect workers. For this reason, we have included this group of people in a group entitled to mining leave. But this range of benefits is so small that it does not affect our notification as regards the European Commission. At this point in time, this is part of the current notification, so we are not violating agreements with the European Commission. I ask the High Senate to adopt this law without amendments, because the situation is that this merger, this integration of companies because of their financial situation we are forced to do this month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u214	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Ambrozik's question, please. [[Voice from the room: Previously, he came forward...]] Oh, I'm sorry. You first.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a few questions. I would like to find out, Minister, what area in total concerns the article. 8e. I mean the areas brought to PGG in connection with the connection with Katowice Holding Coal and Just like you said. Also to the SRK, entities brought to the SRK. What's the total area? If the Minister is able to indicate it now, say it, I would appreciate it, and if not, I would like to receive written information if I could. The second question concerns these areas. As you have mentioned, Minister, these are areas which are agricultural land, agricultural land in the records of land and buildings, and in fact are not agricultural land, because these are post-industrial areas, which are actually often degraded, with remains of mine work, with heaps, often with burning heaps. The question is this. What will happen to these areas demoted at the time of the transfer of these heaps, these areas to the PGG or to the SRK? Are there any plans for the development of these areas? Are there any deadlines? That's my second question. The third question concerns measures which are somehow linked to this. You pointed to the notification by the European Union of aid during the restructuring of our Polish mining industry, there is an amount of more than 8 billion. I would like to know, Minister, if you have such data, whether these funds have already been used in some part and how many of them have been used at this moment after notification. That's the third question. And one more question, really related to the second question. Wouldn't it be appropriate at the time when the land was transferred to PGG or SRK, and this is a law that needs to be adopted quickly, converted, converted into other land than agricultural land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u216	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u217	Thank you very much. As regards this operation involving the Polish Mining Group and Katowice Holding Coal, the total agricultural parcels and partially agricultural parcels constitute 101 ha. What's next with this area? These areas are in the same situation as they were, as they are still part of a mining company. The problem of restructuring where there are mining heaps concerns restructuring in a situation when this company moves to SRK, i.e. when this part of the property passes. And we have these situations. As far as SRK is concerned, it is time for notification of public aid for the restructuring of the mining sites until 2018. Later we have to talk in another formula, because in this period until 2018 it is essentially public aid related precisely to the restructuring of the current mining industry. And the public aid for the restructuring of the mining area now also covers this part, but only during this period of validity of the State aid. We will certainly not complete the process of restructuring the area at that time, because especially as far as the noise is concerned, this restructuring process is very difficult. We will probably notify these things separately in the European Commission. The possibility of employee restructuring ends at the end of 2018. And in this area... That is why we are now focusing on reorganisation and restructuring activities and workers. Hence these mining holidays, because there is a possibility - To what extent? - I don't know. It'll come out, we'll see that about 10,000 miners go on mining leave. This depends on how many parts of mining plants or mining plants will be transferred at that time to the Company for the Restructuring of Mines, because mining holidays can be spent by as many miners as possible, how many are employed in a given mine, how many have been employed on average in the last period in a given mine that passes to SRK. That's what it looks like. As regards the participation in almost PLN 8 billion in this public aid, which we are talking about in today's Act, which concerns the granting of mining leave to these people for up to 4 years, this is about PLN 20 million, which is intended for this purpose if it were taken together. Well, right now, we estimate that there's going to be about as much as possible. It doesn't affect anything at all... This is not entirely a significant amount and does not require additional notification, but is also an important social component of this solution. As far as the funds used are concerned, the funds used at the moment are about PLN 2 billion in terms of this amount. Well, it has to be said that this year, if we consider the current year. I'm just looking to see if I missed something...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u218	I'd like to ask you a question. [[Please?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u219	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If you don't mind me asking... As far as I understand it, Minister, you estimate that it will be PLN 20 million for four years. In a relationship... [[Because it's going to be a few dozen people.]] A few dozen people? [[Yes.]] I was just gonna ask what group of people it's gonna be about. We're talking about a group of unionists, I understand?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u220	Basically about a basic group of union workers who have the right to mining holidays and who have their CV... were miners and at the same time were selected for social activity, but for this reason, if we literally looked at the existing regulations, we could not take up mining leave, and now they are at such a age that it is actually difficult to even... We regard it as social injustice, that although they have 10 years of social activity in the interests of miners, others are going on mining leave at this point, and they cannot go and must return to work underground. That's where we decided... And I'd like to add that the union didn't ask us to do that. This is the idea that arose after the signing of the social agreement, when it turned out that some trade unionists are very embarrassed by the existing situation and wonder what to do next. But we didn't have a situation like this. That's where I'm telling the High Senate. They should insist on it, all the more so, during discussions at the Ministry with the board of directors of companies. We all thought that this solution would be a little bit of justice, because not everyone can drive, not everyone is chosen, so it's also... He cannot be punished for being chosen, a man who can act in the interests of others.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u221	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u222	And if I may... Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I still have a question about the scale to go on mining leave together. How do you estimate? What's the number of employees? I already know that dozens of trade unionists... what will be the number of employees and what will the total cost in this period of four years leave mining as a result of the restructuring due to this notification? And how much is that gonna cost?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u223	That money we're planning right now is about to be planned for those possible departures. The miners entitled to leave for mining holidays are about 10,000, and these workstations, those parts of mines and those mines, which are currently typified to move to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, indicate that about 7 [[If I may... what will be the total cost of passing these estimated 7 and 8,000 employees over the four-year period? How much is this gonna cost?]] I think it's going to be about 2.5 billion zlotys. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u224	Senator Spider. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u225	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have a question about mining leave. This applies precisely to those who will pass and will be taken into account in the marriage by virtue of their choice functions. I got a call from one of the union reps who said it didn't apply to all the union guys in all the relationships. E.g. There's a connection... They called and said it didn't apply to everyone. All relationships and all unionists from all relationships are not included. Only some of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u226	The provision of the Act clearly states that an underground worker is entitled to a worker employed in a mine, mining plant or its designated part, who, due to age, is entitled to a combined internship of work, including an internship during the period of union selection within a union organisation which is representative within the meaning of the Social Dialogue Act. So these are the most important union organizations. [[Oh, that's good!]] As far as trade unions are concerned, there are more than a hundred union organisations in the mining sector, and some of them count a dozen... [[Exactly.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] If we were to adopt a different record here, we would in fact almost be mobilizing for the creation of new relationships. It seems, given the experience of our democracy, that trade unions have the opportunity to establish trade unions. You can even choose a union organisation with a social and political profile. So this creation and multiplication of trade unions from an economic point of view is quite difficult. We didn't want to mobilize this bill to create another trade union. We therefore considered that this provision would still fit in with regard to the provisions of the Law and the provisions on State aid.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u227	Senator Spider. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u228	I'm very short. I suppose it's like the Minister said. That's because it was a representative of a union, which I don't think is, so to speak, such a great union in the mining industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u229	Contra... I don't remember if Kontra is representative of mining. There's a relationship with a similar name, just another one. Because the Kardra is representative in mining, and the Kontra is hardly representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u230	Senator Infantry. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u231	I am very touched by the Minister's attitude that he has such a good heart for trade unionists, but my assessment is a little different from the conditions set out here. The importance of these changes is assessed completely differently in the mining environment, namely as a form of bribery of trade unionists, so that they do not protest about the merger of Katowice Holding with PGG and the elimination of certain mines, which, as far as we know, by specialists, may be independent of the Ministry, the assessment as such, which are suitable for liquidation. I mention the Krupinski mine. It will still be loud in Poland, because it is an example of a mine which, I think, has been mistakenly qualified as one which is not suitable for further mining. Her decks are about 50 billion... The property of Deck 405 is between 4 and 17 m. My question... In fact, the Minister has already answered how many people it will involve. You signalled that the trade unionists did not participate in this project, as confirmed by today's or yesterday's interview with President Cherkawski, who is surprised by this bill. He doesn't want her, he thinks she's bad, bad, and she's just gonna compromise the union. In the light of such facts, and therefore in a situation where a mining union representative officially says that no one consulted them, no one asked them and they did not wish it, you continue to maintain it. As I understand it, the Minister represents the parliamentary side, because it is a parliamentary initiative, not a government initiative. Is there a need for such changes? They will create image costs for this social group, while at the same time real costs of tens of millions of PLN. It's one question. The second concerns agricultural change. That's the point. Pretty weird. I know the ministry was in a lot of rush last year, as PGG was built to make it before the agricultural bill came in. So this knowledge, this awareness that the agricultural law will limit the possibility of transformation, was. For me, it is somewhat incomprehensible that only now are these changes taking place, in the perspective of the merger of Katowice Holding and PGG. That's such a loose point. There was knowledge, there was consciousness. Besides, I don't think it's quite that these transformations are going to be difficult. This land will simply go to the Agricultural Property Agency, only that is the consequence. I'll ask you another question after I've answered the questions I've asked at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u232	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u233	Thank you very much. I'll start with the last question. Well, Mr. Senator, I would like to make it clear that we thought the same at the time. We didn't exactly analyze it, but we knew there would be much bigger problems with the transfer. However, we assumed that this transfer would be possible and that these parcels would be taken under its wing by the Agricultural Property Agency. Well, it's also our oversight. I have to admit, my colleagues and I haven't read this bill to the end. More interestingly, at our request, the Agricultural Property Agency began at an early stage to examine whether it could agree or not to accept whether it would care, etc. However, after a deeper analysis, also from the Ministry of Agriculture, it turned out that the State Treasury had no right to dispose of this at all. It's not... it's not like the agency can take it differently. It turned out that the company of the Treasury, which is a mining company, cannot dispose of agricultural property in Poland at all, is completely banned from selling it. This recipe... I think that in this respect the Minister of Agriculture will have to work on this provision, because it may also occur in the case of other types of companies. This provision is rigorous in this respect and for this reason we are introducing this amendment to the law. As far as the law on the shaping of the agricultural market is concerned, the provision is so formulated that it does not affect it, because it concerns only mining companies. That was one question. And the other. The social agreement was written on 2 March, and with this law we left exactly before 7 days when it turned out in cooperation with the Agricultural Property Agency that we were not able to carry out... By introducing this provision, we thought that we should add this second provision by the way. Earlier about the second person practically... He has already appeared in our discussions, but we have not come out with this recipe, but we have decided that since there is already a bill, it should be added, so it is not really the bribe of the miners. If you want me to refer to Mr Cherkawski's commentary... He's a businessman, so it's hard to say he's interested in something like mining leave. However, in the case of those unionists who live only on their salary, this is a different matter. I'd like to refer to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, I'm sorry, I got the wrong name. I must have made a mistake because it's about Mr. Markowski, who is an entrepreneur, not Mr. Cherkawski. So I straighten it out. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, I'm getting my speech straightened out because... [[He's involved in Krupinski.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. My name's changed. I didn't want to use that name so that I could straighten out my speech right now. As far as the mine is concerned, it is part of the restructuring agreement of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Her shares at the turn of the year cost about PLN 7.5 and actually ended her operations. In January, the president of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa would have to declare bankruptcy because the funds were running out, because banks lending the company, especially banks with western capital, in terms of debts had a security on the property around the hill, such as coking plant, Victoria, coking plant JSW, SEJ or PEC, which Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa once bought from local governments. On this property they actually had most of the funds secured and for this reason Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa threatened bankruptcy. The restructuring program we negotiated... The bank's experts, but not only because the experts of the Mining and Steel Academy and the Mining Institute also spoke on behalf of the board of directors, indicated that the most dangerous element in terms of the finances of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company is the Krupiński mine. In 8 years it suffered a loss of PLN 970 million; it is huge money It's like we're giving 40 million zlotys to every county in Poland, and that's the scale we're talking about. And to this mine, $270 million just... This was one of the reasons why Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa was found. The proposal for a 3-year coal mine 35 is presented, hard. Perhaps it would be coal, which would prove profitable, but we need to take into account the faultiness of the Krupinski decks and the access to this coal, which would be exported by conveyors for 7 km of the mine corridors. In the case of all mines, experts clearly show that the path to the shaft of more than 5 km is... [[There's a mile and a half up there, Minister.]] Please? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, but I... Anyway, the amount, let's say... I will not argue in this area, because I am not an active miner nor have I worked in mining, but since 2006 I have been doing a lot of mining and know... I can say that I know a lot about this area of the economy. Here I would just like to add that for 3 years, i.e. in time until around 2020, there would be 300 million as costs of excavation and about 150 million... about 250 million subsidies for coal mining in those decks that are. So the cost would be about PLN 550 million. Meanwhile, from this restructuring, which has been carried out so far... And yet it was accepted in the restructuring agreement an additional issue of shares, which can significantly reduce the share of the State Treasury for rescuing the company. And for this reason, because the existing measures did not secure full restructuring... This means that in order for the restructuring to be complete, large investment costs must be incurred, calculated at more than PLN 2.5 billion, and this concerns Jastrzębska Węglowa herself, so that it can be fully marketable. For this reason, instead of directing funds for the continuation of this mine, all experts were recognised, but also the financial side that signed the restructuring agreement. That this mine will be removed from mining. The fact that this decision... In connection with this decision, I have asked the financial side twice to renegotiate this agreement, but there is a refusal to renegotiate it. The point is that if we made this agreement, it would be an immediate obligation to repay the entire debt. However, the repayment of the debt at Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa has been postponed, the start of the repayment period has been postponed by 2 years, and it has been spread out from 5 to 10 years. So today Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa found recognition thanks to this restructuring, thanks to the fact that the Krupiński mine... Well, unfortunately, it's her fate that she's leaving for the S.R.K. So JSW found recognition and people who have money... Because the shares of Jastrzębska Węglowa Spółka Spółka Węglowa have been sold over the past year, and not by 10, 20 or 30% , only from 7.50 to... The price is in the area of 70 PLN, so also those miners who have shares for privatisation gain a lot. And there are many indications that if the process related to the Krupiński mine comes to an end and it is actually in the SRK, these shares will also be used in addition. So that everyone is watching whether this restructuring will actually be carried out, despite the pressure. Following the signing of the restructuring agreement, this restructuring agreement was notified to the European Commission. So this operation of the Krupiński mine to SRK was notified to the European Commission. And here is the condition that in total about 2.5 thousand employees of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa will go on mining leave. If we give it up, it's not just that, please, High Senate... Because we have such a situation that there is a problem with the restructuring agreement, but we also have a situation that we have a surplus in employment at Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, which includes almost 2 000 people, and then we will not be able to carry out all this in a humanitarian way. And today in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa there are just enough people who have the right to mining holidays to go away. And we leave the company in very good shape. So these are very difficult choices. I understand that they cause social emotions. Wherever you can, we explain it. But I would also like to convey to the High Senate one thing: the crew, knowing how difficult it is to work in this mine, how there are deposits there, completely - i.e. those who do not have permission for mining holidays - signed the agreement to move to neighbouring mines. In practical terms, every employee of the mine, Krupinski, has assigned his/her place of work. In addition, it was possible to organize it so that workers pass the entire brigades into other jobs to work there in the same environment. So from a social point of view, there's no problem here. From the point of view, there are deposits... Well, these deposits are and they're not dying. As far as the Krupinski mine is concerned, this mine is shutting down. Secondly, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa also saves around 350 million for dismantling equipment in the mine of Krupiński and transferring these equipment to other mines, e.g. as part of the reconstruction of the conversions to the mine of the Knurów-Szczygłowice or the mine of the Budryk. Otherwise, it would be necessary to purchase these devices as part of the modernisation of the conversions. So it all decided that. In general, the financial indicators of the current activity have decided and there is no possibility to bear the additional investment costs required in the following years. You had to decide something: do you improve these diggings, where you already have good results, and increase the extraction, or try to go in a different direction? And the financial side, and most of these experts, so to speak, spoke in the preparation of this project for the fact that this is the right thing to do. Well, after a while, after signing the restructuring agreement, others began to appear, who began to preach other things. Well, that's the way things are, it's always hard when it comes to restructuring. That's how I'm gonna flower it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u234	Thank you very much. Senator Infantry. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the custom that the senator exhausts all his questions so that he does not lose his thread, and I go to the questions asked by the next senator. So now you're Senator Infantry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u235	Complement. Thank you for explaining it quite deeply. Of course, the Minister did not mention that this acquisition of coal could be different and today these technologies are more extensive, it does not have to be reaching these decks as before, conventionally, it can also be done by gassing. Such technologies are already in Australia and other countries. So if the Minister mentioned that these resources would remain in the Treasury and would not be used to sell to someone who would benefit from it now and make a lot of money... Because these decks, as I mentioned, are according to the documentation of 4,11 m of pure pulp, and these losses of the mine were mainly due to the fact that the part was inefficient, with a large amount of stone. So here's the question of why this mine, and not another mine, will go to the S.R.K., might be questionable, especially since you know it too. I won't mention it, because it would require a separate debate. There are independent centres that raise this issue quite seriously. And I think that this topic will have to be taken seriously by the Ministry, because this is not an easy matter to assess. So much for that. Thank you for explaining.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u236	You're welcome... [[I'll take that as a yes.]] Just explaining, right? [[Yes.]] The senator has no questions. Mr. Senator Grabowski. Questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u237	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two more questions in connection with your quite extensive statement, your explanations. The first question concerns those trade unions which are representative. Does the Ministry know how many representative relationships there are, and how many relationships under this law are not representative unions? That's the first question. The second question concerns the merger you mentioned, the Polish Mining Group and Katowice Coal Holding. I would like you, Minister, to say a few words, literally a few sentences, about the strategic objectives of such a merger, the effects that are intended to be achieved, and how long it will be possible to examine these effects in some measurable manner. And that's it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u238	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u239	Some 30 trade union organisations participated in the negotiations we conducted in PGG. There were about 20 union organizations in KHW. They overlapd, i.e. those representative together will be about 30. [[Thank you...]] I'm talking about those who took part in the conversations, which means I understand it's these organizations that just... Now, going to the second question, I'm going to say that we're based on the experience that we already have. The Polish Mining Group was formed in a formula Only mines with mining assets were separated from the Coal Company, and all non-mining property remained in the Coal Company for transfer to SRK. As far as apartments are concerned, they will be used for development or sale to employees. This subject is quite open. The restructuring programme assumed that the Polish Górnicza Group would begin to achieve a positive financial result in April 2017. However, the positive result was already achieved in October last year. It is clear that the formula of the new structure is fully passing the test. The mines have been reconstructed. With 11 mines operating at the moment 5. It is clear that restructuring, including organisational and internal cooperation, is effective. Some mines were merged and formed so-called. The mines are complex. As far as Katowice Holding Coal is concerned, it is a question of the kind that both the mine of the Supper and the mine of Silesia... These are mines that will be transferred to the SRK by the end of this year. This has to do with the state of their resources on the one hand and the economic impact on the other. This is very important in this restructuring. Everything is so prepared that some of the resources, when it comes to mines, will be used by neighbouring mines. These things will be ready by the end of the year. All indications are that in these mines... It's a natural process. This was agreed in agreement with the social side. The entire business plan was accepted by the social side. These actions do not arouse such controversy as they were in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. At the same time Katowice Holding Coal due to its previous problems... It is about an overemployment of almost 2.5 thousand people. Holding didn't have the resources to make a voluntary leave program. Now it gives to the SRK part of the mine a supper, referred to as the Supper of 1 and i.e. He gives away all his employees who have mining leave. It is probably 501 people who go to SRK and on mining holidays. There is still an over-employment surplus of more than 2 000 people. It would have to be reduced by the method of layoffs, so that in any way one can think of Katowice Coal Holding. Meanwhile, the Polish Mining Group... It turned out that the Sośnica mine acquired new decks and has a year-long operating life Instead of the end of this year, it will continue until the end of next year. At this point, this mine does not transfer people to the SRK. In the Polish Mining Group there is a surplus of people with mining rights. After the merger it turns out that almost 3,000 people will be able to leave for mining holidays and the effectiveness of the work of the Polish Mining Group will significantly improve. I would also like to add that, as part of the notification of the mining restructuring programme in the European Commission, we have been given permission to employ workers immediately after school, i.e. young workers, graduates, if workers leave for mining holidays. And at the moment it can be determined that in Silesia there are currently about 900 people employed in this way, graduates. So that it somehow helps solve in Silesia the problem of those young people who so far had problems directly after schools... even those who graduated from vocational, professional, were not employed. So it is also a significant refresh of staff and gives the possibility that, so to speak, the reconstruction of staff in Silesia. This project, from a financial point of view... Creditors, that is, banks that approach this restructuring very rationally, but also investors, because to get straight again, after the merger... It's not just about the merger, it's also about the investment money. And from this programme it is clear that about PLN 1 billion must be transferred to investment. In this way, capital will be raised in cash when it comes to the new Polish mining group, after the merger. It's just a guarantee that she'll be, according to the experts who gave... Both creditors and partners Because the Polish Górnicza Group is still a limited liability company They all see clearly that after recapitalising PLN 1 billion is a guarantee that not only the group will benefit but will also repay its debts. I would also like to add that, at the initiative of both the board of directors and shareholders and creditors, it is the intention that the Polish Górnicza Group should be transformed into a public limited company as soon as possible. And also... preliminary analysis suggests that within five years this group should become... maybe a stock exchange company. So that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u240	I'm asking you for more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u241	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me, Minister, just the last two questions. One question slipped my mind earlier about your explanations about the entire amendment of the law. I'm talking about what you said about your mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8e. You pointed out that some of these... Because, as I understand it, this is a transfer due to the merger of PGG with Katowice Holding Coal, as if absorbed by PGG of Katowice Holding Coal... There's a problem with these agricultural parcels, isn't there? And the same problem at the time of transmission... [[S.R.K.]] ...to the SRK. But you used the wording for further transmission, which is the result of the above-mentioned wording. To the Agricultural Property Agency. As far as I'm concerned. So by these entities... Is that the plan for these agricultural parcels, really unused, to pass on to other entities? Well, that's the mouth. 3 makes it possible. And now the question... If so, it is de facto possible to get rid of the problem by PGG or SRK. Because the transfer of heaps or demoted areas eligible for rehabilitation to the Agricultural Property Agency would certainly remove the problem from the mining industry. But the problem would actually be shifted to one of the agricultural agencies, which will also be transformed. Is that the idea? Did I misunderstand him, misinterpreted it? And the second question, if I may, quickly, briefly. I'd also like to know... Because you used the phrase that Katowice Holding Coal transfers assets to SRK. That's what I know. But he would like you to tell me what will be the assets and whether the entire entities, including companies that are part of... otherwise: companies for which the founding body is Katowice Holding Węglowy... Will any companies be brought into the SRK as well? Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u242	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u243	Well, the situation is that a significant part of these parcels is... I mean, not all agricultural parcels are available and have a separate access to... It is not always possible to reach them, because they are often located in the vicinity of other plots, which are industrial sites. Somewhere over the years... After all, this happened before 1990, and property matters were not given much importance at the time, and for this reason only some of the parcels located somewhere on the outskirts are suitable to be transferred to the Agricultural Property Agency. If that's possible somewhere, we'll pass it on. I was just talking about the possibilities that this bill gives. It will be transferred from SRK rather than from active mines. And that's basically everything. About the second part of the question... Did you mean the senator's share? Like I said...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u244	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You used the wording for the Coal Company and the transfer of assets... [[Oh, yes, it is. About the mines...]] ...Company of Coal to SRK. And in this context, I ask what assets will be transferred to the SRK and whether the assets will also include some entities around the mining industry, i.e. companies whose founding authority is the Coal Company.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u245	At the moment preparations are underway for further proceedings with the Coal Company, but it is not envisaged to transfer companies that operate effectively in the Silesian market to the SRK, because the SRK is, as its name suggests, also a non-targeted institution. She's supposed to do some tasks, like. land restructuring, removal of workers on mining leave, drainage, etc. We do not envisage expanding the scope of SRK's activities at this time, so these things will be managed in some way. He goes here, among other things. about the housing company of Katowice Holding Węglowy. Discussions are being held to ensure that this company takes over the State Treasury, as it were, for taxes and for all public benefits, so that these issues are settled by the KHW. And that's how this company will be transferred. The point is, so she can still get those benefits that are due... I mean a 5% purchase of apartments. It should continue its activities, which result from the previous obligations of the State, the commitments entered into when the state companies were transformed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u246	Thank you very much. Marshal Borusewicz, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u247	Minister, the first question: is it true that only three relationships are representative? [[No, 30...]] That's new. I mean, solidarity, OPZZ and an autonomous relationship, because the principle of representativeness is that such a relationship must have structures throughout the country. Well, maybe that's changed. [[No, no...]] [[There's still one.]] [[Please?]] [[There's still one.]] [[Those relationships that talked to us...]] No, no, but this is... [[Yeah, maybe I got it wrong.]] And that's one question. Yeah, I guess so. It used to be, but maybe something's changed. The principle of representativeness is... [[I used it here like I didn't quite...]] Okay, I'm not gonna pick on that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u248	I used that phrase, but I made it clear that this is how we can treat these trade unions with whom we have talked. Well, I said there were so many, but to ask you how many representative relationships there were, I wasn't able to answer, because right now... [[Bad word.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u249	Good. This agreement could also apply to those who are not representative, and are representative, I think, three. [[I'm sure it's more than that.]] And now I have a question that seems important. On public television, the editor Gargas issued a program which shows that the entire restructuring of the I also heard Senator Platform here, as I understand it, in this direction he asked about a pulp up to 11 m thick. In any case, the whole restructuring is only so that the German capital takes over these deposits of coal, and even so that the German government can have some connection there, in Silesia. What does the Minister say? Are there any elements of the truth here? Were there any elements of the truth in this program, or is it a complete begging?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u250	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u251	In all this the truth is intertwined with the untruth. It is true that the Orzeszé deposit, i.e. the concession to the Orzesze deposit, which is adjacent to the Krupinski mine, is owned by a German entrepreneur. It is true that the German businessman tried to use the Krupiński mine, but not to reach for the deposit of this mine, just to be able to use his deposit, because the construction of a new mine costs more than PLN 3 billion. There was a preliminary agreement, probably signed in 2014, at 100% I am not sure about this date, in any case somehow at the turn of 2014/2015 or in 2014 an agreement was signed between Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and the German entrepreneur regarding the possibility to export coal from the Orzesza deposit through the excavation and through the Krupiński mine, and it was also about the use of processing in Krupinski. In this agreement, an appropriate remuneration was offered for the use of the Krupiński mine. I would like to add that after the decision to withdraw the mine from the SRK, the same trader came to me and asked that the mine should not be liquidated, and said that he was ready to raise the amount of payment by about 30%. However, the analysis carried out at Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa indicated one thing, that this mine would not be able to make full use of its mining capabilities, because significantly, somewhere almost 70% conversion, coal purification would be carried out in favour of the tenant and internal capabilities would be much smaller. Hence, this case was rejected and a decision was taken, which everyone together, so to speak, in the framework of the restructuring agreement we maintained, I mean the board, the authorities of the JSW company and creditors, as well as representatives of investors who are represented at the general meeting. So much for this case. So the reaction was the opposite, it was not that the German entrepreneur, so to speak, sought to close the Krupinski mine, but did everything to keep it from being closed. The lessons from this can be drawn from what is happening. For him, it would be huge savings if now the Krupinski mine were made available to him. We cannot do this because we need mine equipment for PLN 350 million to use for Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, and we do not want to use this deposit, so this mine goes to SRK.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u252	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u253	So, as I understand it, he didn't want to buy the mine. [[No.]] It's just... [[He didn't express his will, he just expressed his desire to rent the hallways...]] A lease hallway, yes. [[...and parts of the remake...]] I understand. It's clear to me. Because if he wants to buy a mine for good money, then why not? I have one more question. These coal holdings, as a result of the Ministry's suggestion, invested funds from energy companies. And it's basically all energy companies, it seems that now PGNiG is also going to invest, Tauron, Energa, PGE, etc., quite large funds. Minister, how will this affect the price of energy? Because it looks as if as a result the final cost would be paid by the buyer, unless, of course, these companies recover the money. In fact, I don't know what the perspective is... But will it have an impact, or does it affect the price of energy that we're going to pay? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u254	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u255	Thank you very much. The price of coal has a significant impact on the price of electricity when it comes to coal energy. I would like to point out that we are at the final stage of cleaning up the technological sequence system in terms of electricity generation. In 2007, when I was also responsible for coal mining at the Ministry of Economy, I agreed to an experiment. Two mines were transferred to Tauron to see what it would be like when it was somehow integrated into energy. And the direct control of the energy company concerning the costs of extraction had a rather positive translation... These mines throughout this period, until today, do not experience much trouble, are somehow moderated when it comes to their operating costs. There are internally established prices related to extraction costs and, as you can see from the advertisements, Tauron is quite actively competing with the sales, with the price of electricity on the market, so this does not have a negative impact. And in order not to cause the situation that there will be different dealers on the market and will manipulate coal prices in different ways, this is putting coal prices under the control of energy companies, which through their own... even additionally, outside the board... A special audit committee is set up in the Polish Mining Group outside the supervisory board, which oversees the restructuring on an ongoing basis. And energy companies that look at this and take into account Tauron's experience, it is not necessary to encourage them to agree to take mining under their patronage, de facto under their management, because they... This money is not a grant for mining, it is a buy-in of shares in mining companies, and therefore the share in power is transferred to energy companies. In the Polish Mining Group, energy companies already have more than 50% In fact, they manage the Polish Mining Group. And this capital merger means that transfer prices can be used for this purpose, so there will be full transparency of costs. And there won't be any mistrust that you let us into the cost, there's some foreign services, somebody takes money outside, some other stuff. After all, there are many different types of truths and semi-truths or rumors about what is happening in mining. Here will be full transparency, independent audit committees supervise costs. So, in my opinion, it's going to be good, and if it's going to affect energy, electricity generation, it's positive, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u256	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Dobkowski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u257	Thank you very much. Minister, you say that the Polish Górnicza Group will be a limited liability company for the time being, will become a public limited liability company and then become a public limited liability company. What will be the amount of the company's capital in the end? And does the company provide for the issue of bonds? And will these bonds be able to buy private individuals on the market, simply natural persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u258	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u259	As regards today's situation, in addition to the measures that the company will receive from the recapitalisation, there is no need to continue to raise funds or issue bonds. If the company gets back on its feet and will We're talking about a five-year period in which it's supposed to happen. Economically efficient, then because there may be a need to build new mines, because the old ones, as you can see, are exhausted, additional financial needs may arise and then the company can issue additional shares and enter the stock exchange. We assume that after 5 years, it will be possible for the company to raise funds for the construction of new mines through the stock exchange, because in some mines which are still operational, deposits will run out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u260	Thank you, Minister. Senator Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Although I come from the other end of Poland, from the opposite side, because from Chełmszczyzna, Lubelski, I always listen with interest to debates related to mining and coal mining. But I have to say that I'm starting to separate these two problems, because by looking at how much time we spend here in the Senate, for example, on the discussions involved, I see one thing: that these human problems, such as local ones, industrial ones, etc. a great deal was created, while coal itself and its extraction are beginning to disappear somewhere in all this. We have various structures that overlap on this Silesian conglomerate, trade union structures, some other organizations, restructuring mines. Once this mine is in this, another time it's in something else, it's in coal, another time a rock, they say, they sell it, they put it on the heaps. And the country really doesn't know. Today in the country, wherever we go, most people start buying Russian coal. And Silesia is constantly experiencing such human problems, which we do not really see a solution to. And what I'd like to say is that, even though they're going into all this billions, for which you could build mines that could mine coal a few times cheaper, it doesn't lead to anything. We know how much money went last year on the general issues of mining restructuring in Silesia, what other things are happening. For example, trade unions... Well, that's a pyramid where I find managing an institution almost impossible. Something's gonna have to be done about it. Maybe. something like this: to deal with solving these problems They're natural. And the coal mining itself separate and start organizing it from the beginning. This web, which is now attached to the mines, the web of all organizations, all human problems, as well as artificial problems, is so expensive and so difficult to understand across the country that I would propose to do this: let's separate mining problems from coal mining problems. This coal is, wait, excellent coal. In Lublin 2 mines thanks to some gold If you compare this with the sums mentioned above What Prime Minister Pawlak has dedicated to their preparation, in the vicinity of Chelm, where there is excellent coal, perfectly located... And Professor Kaliski, in his inaugural lecture, estimated that while Bogdanka was mining for 150 PLN, in those two prepared mines coal can be mined in the range of 100 and 120 PLN... [[Senator, question, question.]] Yeah, I got it. 250 PLN This is Russian coal. Okay. 400 zł. This is coal from Silesia. And I have a question. Could we take some decisive action that would change this situation, which is becoming more confusing to us and actually there is no light in this coal corridor, for example, a mining lamp that would mean that we're actually going to something? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u262	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u263	Thank you very much. It is here that the senator raised the problem of coal used by the population for fuel, heavy coal. As far as our mining is concerned, we meet the demand for heavy coal in the range of 65-70%. That is why it is not a problem of possible imports of a part of coal, because it complements the shortcomings that are on our market. The problem is the import of coal, or energy coal, which we can extract in Poland in sufficient quantities. In this area, imports also decreased in 2016. And now it's not too big either. So as far as the situation on the coal market is concerned, it is now normalized. And separating mining from the very issues that caused confusion... Because also holiday resorts, and sanatoriums, and various types of service companies are all that, so to speak, actually kind of blew up the real picture in terms of mining costs. Therefore, as part of the restructuring mentioned here, mining companies only deal with coal mining, nothing else. Only clean mines, together with windows and storage areas, were transferred to the Polish Mining Group. All that is not related to the extraction of coal has been separated. And that's what's going on right now, because the Coal Company still exists, and it's working on the development of this property, so to speak, out-of-miner. In the same way Katowice Holding Węglowy remains, as a company with a lot of property, various types of functional and non-functional plots, with areas for which various types of activities will need to be undertaken in the course of this restructuring. And this will be done in such a way that some of this property will be transferred to the SRK as the part that requires restructuring in connection with the liquidation of the mining sites, and the part will be disposed of, ordered. And that's gonna be a liquidation process. So that the said 2 companies that remain are companies that will be in liquidation during this period, so it can be defined in terms of their future management of this non-core property. That's why we do it. And what I said earlier, that energy companies are taking control of the extraction of hard coal, will cause them to care that this coal is not too expensive from the point of view of power generation. These are listed companies, public companies, which must inform about all their activities and financial movements. They are subject to financial supervision and the management of the stock exchange and the Financial Supervision Commission. For this reason, it is already clear that these companies, so to speak, have grown into such a formula that, although they have shares of the State Treasury, their functioning is typically market functioning. All indications are that this will also move to coal mining. I hope, and I believe, that this restructuring, through the introduction of capital energy into mining, will have a positive final effect.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u264	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to ask you a question? No. Minister, thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the law on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. The text of the Act is contained in print No 440 and the committee report In print No 440 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on 14 March 2017. The Commission at this meeting considered the law on the metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship, adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 9 March 2017. The Act sets out the principles and procedures for the formation and functioning of the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. It can be said that it is a special local government law, because it concerns only one entity, which is the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship. And for this reason it was prepared. The law was adopted on the basis of government submissions. This association will be established by the Council of Ministers by means of a regulation establishing the name, identifying the seat of the authorities and establishing the area and boundaries by identifying the municipalities of that association. The decision of the Council of Ministers will be made following a proposal which must be submitted by the Minister responsible for public administration. In turn, this proposal to establish a metropolitan union will be prepared by the City Council of Katowice and the President of the City of Katowice. The Act specifies what the proposal should contain so that it can be positively assessed by the Silesian Voivodeship. The Silesian Voivode within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request for the establishment of a metropolitan union shall forward it, together with its opinion, to the Minister responsible for public administration. The regulation we are talking about is to be issued by the Council of Ministers by 30 June this year. The Union will be established as from 1 July 2017, except that the implementation of the tasks of the Union will only start on 1 January 2018. After the regulation and the creation of a metropolitan union on 1 July... From that day on, there are two months at the convening of the first assembly. The assembly shall appoint a union board. Until the first session of the Assembly, and in the case of the Management Board, until the date of its election, the President of the City of Katowice shall act as a proxy for the formation of the Union. The model of the metropolitan union in terms of competence corresponds to the model of local self-government units. The President of the Council of Ministers will supervise the operation of the union and directly the Silesian Voivodeship. As regards the supervision of the financial relationship, it was entrusted to the Regional Audit Chamber. As far as the tasks of the union are concerned, the law lists them in the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Its main tasks will include the development of spatial governance, the social and economic development of the union area, the pursuit of public transport and passenger transport tasks in the whole range and cooperation in the establishment of communication routes in the union area. The last task of the metropolitan union is to promote the relationship and the area it covers. In addition, the relationship will be able to take over tasks belonging to the government or government administration on an agreement basis. Act adopted by the Sejm I hope that the Senate will also repeal the metropolitan union law of 9 October 2015 as the basis for the creation of metropolitan unions in other areas of the country. As we recall, such a law was adopted in 2015. Of course, many things were different there, but this law gave the possibility of creating metropolitan relationships in other smaller individuals. In this case it is a law only for this one relationship. The Act amends the provisions of other laws. The amendments will be introduced in the Act of 8 March 1990 on municipal self-government, in the Act of 21 August 1997 on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions, in the Act of 5 June 1998 on local government, in the Act of 5 June 1998 on district self-government and in the Act of 27 March 2003 on spatial planning and development. The next law, in which changes will be made due to the adoption of the contested law, is the Act of 13 November 2003 on the income of self-government units. The last amended act is the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport. The law was adopted by the Sejm almost unanimously. 432 Members voted in favour, 1 against, 6 abstentions. The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. These are basic news about the bill. As regards yesterday's meeting of the council committee, in addition to the senators of the members of the committee, it was attended by President Zabrza, Ms Małgorzata Szulik, who is also the chairman of the Board of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union, and Mr Wojciech Skrzypek, director of the Management Office of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union in Katowice. In addition, representatives of the Ministry attended the meeting with Deputy Minister Sebastian Chwałk. The Minister represented the government, which was the inventor of the bill. The discussion took a long time, but it must be acknowledged that it was going on in a very calm and factual atmosphere. As for this bill, even I remember... I think the discussion's been going on for about 15 years. There were voices to organize and adopt such a metropolitan law for Silesia. As far as representatives of the government are concerned, the president represented this institution. The president encouraged, asked... She represented That's what I'm convinced of. The self-governments who today sign up for such a bill. She was very positive about the bill, and it was obvious, even after her behavior, that she was enthusiastic about the bill coming into force as soon as possible. As far as the senators are concerned, the speakers took the floor, among others. Senators Artur Warzocha and Arkadiusz Grabowski. Well, I can understand that, and I'm sure the voters will applaud them for taking the floor on this matter, because they represent this part of the voivodship, those municipalities and districts that are probably not going to enter this district. The main question was whether this law would not result in the voivodship itself As it is said today, given the European Union's emergence of two-speed communes. Those affected by the metropolitan law will have more resources and it is possible that this will result in their better development, but it may be at the expense of the others. In this case, the Deputy Minister took the floor and said that there was no such threat, because the law on equal development is valid and valid. But I think the senators are not going to give the Minister some peace, and I'm sure there will be some questions about it. The legislator made proposals for amendments, and it can be said that these amendments were a little corrective or not quite substantial. Senator Piotr Florek took over three of the proposals for amendments tabled by the legislator, i.e. Two, five and six. These amendments were put to the vote. The Commission rejected them by votes. 4:2. At the end of the vote, the whole law was passed without amendments. The Commission unanimously adopted the law. I therefore recommend that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u266	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u267	I'm gonna put a little more pressure on the senator, but that's gonna be a question for the minister, too. This law is a version of the bill that has been prepared for a good few years, a ready-made law on metropolitan unions throughout Poland. I'm asking because I always have doubts. on such specific laws concerning one area or another, not the whole country. The question to the Senator of the rapporteur is: haven't the issue been raised to create this law more widely, for everyone? Because, as far as I'm concerned, The Metropolitan Unions Act is still in force. I know that Gdansk, Sopot, Gdynia want to turn themselves in, a few more surroundings. I'm not talking about old plans anymore, because I don't know if you remember, but there was an idea of connecting Krakow with Katowice and creating Krakowice. That was part of the bill, too. Was this subject discussed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u268	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As for the last issue you mentioned, Kraków and Katowice, I am from those areas, but I have not heard of it. About Kraków yes, even Kalwaria and other towns were considered, there were such conversations. As far as this is concerned, I'm sure the Minister will complete this reply. Maybe you can give it a little bit wider and deeper. In general, at the committee meeting it was mentioned that there was a law on other metropolitan areas, but there was also agreement to adopt a separate law. The argument put forward by the Minister was that... let's just say that cities that would run to the metropolis today have a lot of opportunities to grow. The layout of cities in Silesia is that the city borders the city. There's a lot of cities. There's a problem with urbanization, and there's also a problem with communication to coordinate it somehow. Even a city near the city... In Bytom unemployment is probably 17%, and in Katowice 5 per cent. There are so many disparities there. The idea of a metropolitan law is to try to solve these problems. Let us hope that the bill will contribute to this. There was a demand for this metropolitan area to be quite large in population. There's a $2 million limit here. There is no doubt that in the conglomeration of the cities of Upper Silesia it would be easiest to get such a number of inhabitants. That's it. If you repeat your question, I think the Minister will make even more arguments here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u270	Good. Thank you, Senator. Senator Krystian Probier. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u271	I'm just gonna fill in the blanks. The rapporteur mentioned the concern that within the Silesian agglomeration there should not be two speeds, so to speak. There are also counter-movements. Namely the municipality of Jaworzno, although it could, absolutely does not want to join the metropolis. As a response, I will tell the senator that the name Katoków was also appearing, not just Krakowice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u272	Thank you very much. I think that concerns about this, I would say, the second or lower speed may report Bielsko and the agglomeration around Bielsko, because it is further, as well as the Częstochowa mentioned here, which Senator Warzocha mentioned at the committee meeting. As far as Jaworzno is concerned, this is it. I think it's a pretty interesting case. The Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union today covers 13 cities. It was established on 8 June 2007. In the beginning, Jaworzno was among its founders, but later Jaworzno came out of it. After creating this relationship... I don't know if Dąbrowa Górnicza and Sosnowiec joined the union later. Certainly at the beginning among the founders there was Jaworzno, which followed. What the city authorities are gonna do now, it's hard to say. One more remark. As far as the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union is concerned, the towns of the county approached it. It was the district of Grodz. And in this case, not only the district of Grodzkie can join the union voluntarily, but also the municipalities, if they make such a decision. With regard to the procedure for joining the metropolitan union, this procedure is strictly specified in the Act. It shows what conditions need to be met in order to report an access to a relationship in due time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u273	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the senator? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Sebastian Gwałek, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In order not to prolong, I will speak very briefly. As the rapporteur has already told us, this project is expected by the Upper Silesia authorities. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, Madam President Zabrza, who is also the head of the Upper Silesian Metropolitan Union, repeated many times how much this law was needed and how well it happened that it was finally prepared and that it was being processed at the moment. Upper Silesia is waiting for this bill. This is a really specific bill that responds to these specific expectations, responds to the specifics of this area. The current law was intended to cover the general possibilities of creating a metropolis in Poland. Unfortunately, the practice showed that it was not possible to use it in Upper Silesia, hence the government with the participation of local governments. With their huge support and, in principle, under consensus conditions It's a bill he's prepared. The Sejm, as you may have observed, adopted this draft law in principle unanimously, hence the government requests that it be adopted without unnecessary amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, the senators... Stay here, Minister, 'cause they're probably gonna... Minister, stay here, because I'm sure there'll be questions for you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u276	I have two questions. Does this law, on which we are proceeding, repeal the 2015 Act? That's the first question. Second question. Why is vacathio legis 14 days old? [[Voice from the room: He's gone at all.]] Oh, there's no vacathio legis at all. Why is there no vacathio legis at all? Is this bill supposed to come into force in June? What are the reasons for such haste? I understand that those who are in a metropolitan relationship have somehow prepared for this, but I think those who are not in a metropolitan relationship should also have some time to prepare themselves, because the metropolitan relationship will undoubtedly have an impact on those who do not enter this relationship. I asked two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u277	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I've asked quite a few questions at the committee meeting. I'm not the only one. However, there were questions that were not answered in my opinion, so to speak, complete. Well, there are questions I just didn't ask. First of all, I would like to return to my question from the committee: what do you have in return for the municipalities who, in quotes, will not get the train to Hollywood? And there's gonna be municipalities. That's the first question. Do you foresee any form of compensation? However, the participation of cities or municipalities in the newly created metropolitan area will mean, so to speak, an additional share of PIT, which will be paid into the common budget. These measures are pretty good, because it's going to be, as you estimate, about 270 million. What do you have in return for municipalities that, unfortunately, for various reasons will not be able to find themselves in this relationship, in this metropolis? The second question concerns financial management, which is the estimated 270 million. This amount is considerable, but the metropolitan tasks set out in the Act have quite a wide range. Moreover, it will not only be PIT funds, because the Act also refers to grants. Does the government provide for grants? How high are you? will they be granted in the first year and subsequent years? Given that these are State resources, tax or grant resources I'm not talking about own income or metropolitan contributions. I'd like to know if there's any form of supervision over the spending of these funds. In addition to the statutory provisions, i.e. the rules for establishing the budget and supervision of the RIO, will the Polish government have any impact on the way this money is spent? Will these measures be earmarked e.g. for the development of the metropolis? They can also be issued e.g. to promote municipalities that are part of the metropolis, and maybe even personalities, specific people who are... [[Okay, Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u279	Good. Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer the senator's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! As regards the issue of vacathio legis, an amendment was tabled at the committee meeting in the Sejm, which eliminated the proposed 14-day vacathio legis, situation of the entry into force of the law as of the day following its publication. It's a pretty simple argument. This project, as I said, is expected by local governments. The planned date of establishment of the metropolis is 1 July 2017. The statutory deadlines which guarantee that the entire preparatory procedure is maintained are, at this point, precisely prepared that any unnecessary day of delay could disturb the fulfilment of those deadlines. Since these local authorities, who are interested in entering the Silesian metropolis, have been preparing for this for a long time, there is no danger, and it is not so that any vacathio legis is needed, which would give time to prepare these local authorities. In fact, everyone is already waiting for this, so after the President has signed and announced this act, everyone starts working, the consultation process begins, the active participation of President Katowice, who is the proxy preparing the proposal for the Minister of Home Affairs, etc. So that this vacathio legis is unnecessary, in this situation the 14-day vacathio legis will not help. The date of entry into force of this law, which shall be the day following the publication of the Act, shall fully safeguard the interests of the parties concerned. As for the liquidation of the bill, here's what I'm going to say. Of course, this draft law repeals the Act in force at the moment, the 2015 Act. I think it's worth recalling the origins of the bill. The parliamentary proposal, which was submitted in the previous term, contained only solutions concerning the so-called "new'. the metropolitan district of Silesia. At the end of the work, at the end of the term for various reasons, probably also related to the election campaign, this project was extended in such a way that theoretically it was intended to enable the creation of at least a dozen metropolises in our country. Unfortunately, as I mentioned earlier, this general solution could not be applied even to the creation of what was obvious first, i.e. to the creation of the Silesian metropolis. The specificity of this area, the specificity of the Silesian conglomerate proved to be too much of a challenge for the solutions contained in the passed law. The individualized bill for Silesia, for Upper Silesia, for the Silesian metropolis eliminates all the defects that appeared in the previous act, and actually allows this particular metropolis with its characteristics to be included in these solutions. For this reason, the draft, actually in force, is repealed. We have adopted a strategy that the better solution is to appoint Parliament, the government, adopt or prepare individualised, specifically targeted metropolitan projects for specific areas. In Silesia we are dealing with a polycentric metropolis, in Warsaw we are dealing with a monocentric metropolis. These are two different solutions. Silesia is a dozen cities on the rights of the county, whose areas actually penetrate. The current solution could not be applied to the Silesian metropolis and to its specifics. The senator asked, what alternative? The specifics of Upper Silesia and the problems that are there, in terms of common communication, spatial planning made it necessary to adopt such a legal act. And the means, among others. from the state budget, from this 5% share of PIT revenue that is intended for metropolitan areas, will be devoted precisely to the development of communication in this area. The laws currently in force, which allowed municipalities to cooperate in the field of such joint communication, are in principle no longer capable of developing this part of the tasks of individual municipalities. Hence the Metropolitan Act and the transfer by the municipalities... That is to say, the taking away of municipalities and the proper handing over of metropolitan metropolitan tasks and spatial planning issues, as well as the development of the entire metropolitan area, also required the transfer of funds. It should be remembered that the Government of Law and Justice, as part of the strategy for responsible development, provides, here specifically for the remaining territory of the Silesian province, a special strategic programme, a programme for Silesia, which includes among others. different types of incentives, funds and co-financing streams for other areas. So here the threat of creating a region that will be characterized by many speeds of development because of this law, we do not see. So that I can reassure the senators, senators, that this should not affect the development of other areas. We mentioned Jaworzno, who does not really express an interest in joining the metropolis at the moment, but this accession is voluntary, so that the decision of Jaworzna will be respected. Jaworzno, according to what we know, believes that its communication structure is sufficient at the moment and is well organized that it does not need help. Nevertheless, I believe that within a year or two years, Jaworzno will notice that the metropolis offers opportunities. I suspect he'll be joining this metropolis shortly, which is possible. Of course, the law makes it impossible to get out of the metropolis, so that this organism will not be destroyed after its creation. The area that will cover the metropolis is, according to various estimates, from 14 to 24 or even 29 municipalities. It's all gonna come out after the party, after the bill's passed. It seems to me that it will be the first metropolis created in Poland, which will have a huge potential to develop the implementation of these obligations in the field of joint communication and spatial planning. It's still a matter of supervision. Of course, the funds spent, as one of your senators mentioned here, both the Regional Auditorium and the Voivodeships' supervision... The funds will have to be spent on tasks commissioned by the Act. I wouldn't be afraid of problems here either, because the government can always come in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u281	Thank you, Minister. Now you will ask Senator Wojciech Piecha and Senator Arthur Warzocha. I'm asking that these be brief questions, because at 6:00 p.m., we're adjourned.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u282	I have a question about the authorities of the metropolitan union. We have here a record: The organizations of the metropolitan union are: the assembly; the management of the metropolitan union, hereinafter referred to as the management. The assembly consists of delegates from the municipalities, 14 of them or, as you said, 29 of them and each municipality will designate only one representative. But cities or these municipalities are definitely different, Katowice is different from Chorzów, potential is definitely different, Gliwice, Ruda Śląska, Bytom Definitely other priorities. And how will this assembly get along? That's a key question for me. Another thing, the board. The board will be five people. Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Yes.]] The board will be chosen from among whom? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Candidates submitted.]] But it's gonna be... This assembly will choose. Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Yes.]] So it won't be such a strong election mandate. Who's gonna be chairman of this board? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: He who will be elected this chairman.]] Is this going to be a passerby function, or is this going to be a passerby function? [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, are you done?]] I'm almost done. Is this going to be a passerby function or a passerby function?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u283	Okay, the Minister will answer right away. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please. And we'll ask the Minister for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Tell me, why don't you... maybe you didn't allow it so much as you didn't lead to similar metropolitan projects where they're expressed and there are conditions for it? First of all, I am talking about Warsaw, about the Tricity. Is this Silesian metropolis supposed to be the beginning of autonomy for Silesia? Why is she the first to appear? Is this in line with the principles of uniformity of the Polish state, which are widely declared? In the context of this question, I am concerned about 2 facts: a metropolitan relationship may establish cooperation with metropolitan actors; a metropolitan relationship may take over the tasks of the State. So not only the local authorities from his territory, but also the tasks of the state. There's a third... I didn't find any rules in the text of the bill. Maybe you can get me out of the mix-up. What kind of metropolitan relationship can be abolished. It speaks of how it is created that its boundaries may be changed, its composition changed, etc., but there is no way of abolishing it. Is this legal, or is this on a voluntary basis? Who's responsible for this? Whose initiative might this be?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u285	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u286	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, the matter of choosing the board. It's the assembly that chooses the board. There is no pass-by function for the Chairman of the Management Board, even at any time, if, as I say, the relevant majority is likely to change. The issue of autonomy for Silesia. I didn't understand if... There's no autonomy here. This is a specific creation that is designed to carry out specific tasks concerning common communication, spatial planning, etc. It is not, for God's sake, any reason to divide the state. Under no circumstances is that a reason to do so. It's a matter of shutting down the metropolis. Just as it was called, and thus legally, it will be eliminated. There's no exit procedure in the bill because we don't assume we can get out of the metropolis. The exit of any subject... Imagine that Katowice at some point stated that they wanted to leave the metropolis. And it's after the metropolis, it's just losing sense. It's a voluntary entrance, but it's a reasonable entrance. Right? If there's a problem with the organization, we'll have to bring down the metropolitan area by law. Hence the number of inhabitants At least 2 million. The idea is for such a metropolis to have the strength to make a conscious choice about joining the metropolis. What about her liquidation? Legal, there's no other mode. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u287	Thank you very much. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski wishes to ask a brief question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll try to make it before recess. Minister, I have two questions about the contents of the bill. I raised these questions at the committee meeting. Isn't the Ministry concerned about the situation in which... the Minister here claimed that joining the metropolitan area is voluntary, that the municipalities concerned are now 28 or 29 and that everything will be clarified in the near future. There will still be a need for public consultation. I would like to ask you if you do not believe, Minister, that too strong a mandate is on the side of the City Council of Katowice, which is in fact the initiating party. The fact that the municipalities are interested may not be sufficient, because it may turn out that the City Council of Katowice will not be interested, for various reasons, in order for any of these municipalities to join the metropolitan area. And this is the originator. Right? Another are the Minister for Administration and the Prime Minister. Yes? Isn't that a very strong ticket? And the second question, also related. Senator Piech here has already asked a question about the board, the vote... Why should there be a double majority vote? This certainly promotes the largest, strongest, agglomerative entities that have the largest number of inhabitants. In such a situation, smaller operators can have a much smaller impact on what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u289	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, decision making issues in the metropolis and most of the double, in general the rules of decision making... This form is actually based on the arrangement with local governments. There was no interested party. Even from the small local authorities involved in this process The voices that this is dangerous from their point of view. Indeed, these records have been developed in a broad consensus. I think that participation in this procedure, both the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Prime Minister, gives a guarantee that this will not be a very thoughtless decision. Where did Katowice come from? Well, someone had to take on the responsibility to create the whole organism. And since Katowice is listed here, we assume that without Katowice there can be no metropolis. From here to safety. So that somebody in the future doesn't think about discussing whether Katowice should be in this metropolis or not They were literally entered in the Act. And this is the beginning of creating a metropolis around Katowice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u291	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we must stop the debate on this point, because at 6 p.m., which means in a moment, I will announce a break. Tomorrow at 9 a.m. we will return to this item on the agenda. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Thank you very much.]] And then there's point two: the mortgage credit law and the supervision of mortgage brokers and agents. Thank you very much. And I'm asking the senator to present the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u292	The meeting of the Environment Committee will take place today, 15 March, 5 minutes after the adjournment is announced, in room 182. The subject of the meeting will be the adoption of a position on the Act on waste electrical and electronic equipment. Tomorrow, 16 March, in room 182 at 8.15 p.m., a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will be held on the proposals submitted to the Act amending the law on the system of common courts. At 8.30 a joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions and of the Legislative Commission on the proposals submitted to the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-15-senat-37-1.u293	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a recess until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 17 minutes 58]]
