ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're about to begin. I open the forty-eightth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. High Izbo! I am pleased to inform you that at my invitation to the Senate, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia, Mr. Ara Babloyan, is here. [[Applause]] I would like to welcome you very cordially, Mr. President... [[Applause]] I would like to welcome you very cordially, Mr President, along with the entire delegation. I also welcome Mr Edgar Ghazarian, Ambassador of the Republic of Armenia to the Republic of Poland. Hello, Mr. Ambassador. [[Applause]] I inform you that the Sejm at its forty-eightth meeting on 29 August 2017 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on judicial bailiffs and executions, to the Act amending the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and to the Law on Public Procurement, to the Act on the Establishment of the Day of Fighting and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. In addition, the Sejm adopted all amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Packaging Management and Packaging Waste and certain other laws at its forty-ninth meeting on 12 October 2017. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the forty-four, forty-five and forty-sixth meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. High Senate, I inform you that on 11 May 2017, the President of the Council of Ministers handed over to the Senate a document on road safety and the activities carried out in this respect in 2016; it is included in print No 508. I sent this document to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. I would like to inform you that the committees at the joint meeting on 17 October 2017 took note of this document. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points two, four, seven, eight and thirteen of the draft agenda be considered, even though the reports of the relevant Senate committees have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. and consider it as point 14. If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the forty-eightth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, as I would now like to provide some important organisational information. In the absence of legislative proposals to point one, i.e. the Health Protection Act against the consequences of solarium use, the vote will take place immediately after consideration of this point. Well, there's gonna be a five-minute break. In addition, I would like to inform you that today at 12.00 a one-hour break will be arranged, during which will be held a ceremonial gala of the winners of the fourth edition of the competition, a letter to Dad, including the announcement of the results and presentation of the awarded works. Therefore, on the desktops you will find an occasional publication containing the works of children awarded in the second and third edition of the competition. The plenary session will continue from 1 p.m. Then, as requested by the Senator's Club, the meeting will be adjourned from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. In the break... No, I'm sorry. I was surprised. After the break, we will move on to the next items on the agenda. Next important information: today at 7:00 p.m., we will proceed to the resolution on the 55th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak. In the absence of legislative proposals, we will proceed immediately after considering this point. After this vote, the session will be adjourned by 9 a.m. tomorrow. After the announcement of the break in room 217, there will be a screening of the film about Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziaku, for which I invite you very cordially. Tomorrow's session will resume at 9 a.m. from the point on the report of the Polish Language Council. We will then proceed with the review of the Law on the ratification of the multilateral convention drawn up in Paris and the Act on the ratification of the implementing protocol between Poland and Ukraine. Tomorrow, at 12:00 p.m., a half-hour break will be ordered for the opening of the exhibition "Ormian" in Poland. After the break, we will begin to consider the draft resolution on the 650th anniversary of giving the Armenians the first privilege in Poland. In the absence of legislative proposals, we will proceed to the draft resolution on this matter immediately after considering this point. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Health Protection Act against the consequences of solarium use. The text of the Act is contained in print No 582, and the report of the Commission In print No 582 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Health Committee of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Health Protection Act against the consequences of solarium use. The Commission discussed and discussed this law on 15 September 2017. It was a presidential project. I will immediately say that all the members of the Health Committee are very grateful to the President for this bill. I think that the President's representative, the Minister who is in the Chamber, will probably present this initiative and the reasons for this initiative to you, so I will no longer say what the Minister said at the committee meeting. The Health Protection Act is the result of alarming epidemiological studies, which show that in the last three decades the number of cases of the most serious skin cancer, such as malignant melanoma, has increased dramatically. It is a virtually incurable disease. We have some drugs, so-called. targeted, but they do not produce satisfactory results. The best therapeutic method is early-stage surgery, but prevention is the best way to avoid this disease. It is known that the risk factor for malignant melanoma is ultraviolet radiation, both solar and artificial, and this is about solar use, especially by the youngest. This bill So there's no doubt about it. It does not prohibit the use of solarium at all, but prohibits the use of solarium by children under the age of 18. The Minister will probably say that these are increasingly common pathological practices in solar systems, at the request of unreasonable parents. The bill is intended to promote the knowledge of the harmfulness of ultraviolet radiation. It contains bans that will be monitored by a sanitary and epidemiological station. It also provides for penalties for establishments which do not comply with this law and for amendments to other laws which are required for that law to enter into force. This knowledge should be disseminated primarily among children and young people. There are epidemiological studies that show that the awareness of the harmfulness of ultraviolet radiation and of the increased risk of malignant melanoma in adolescents is approximately 16%. The discussion was quite alive, but kept in such a consistent tone, because we're all in favour of this bill. We also know that the spokesperson for the rights of the child is in favour of this bill. I recommend that the High House adopt this law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Boris-Damian first came forward. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. On this bill to the senator's offices, as I know, there have been a number of questions, even petitions, you might say, and requests to raise certain issues. I would like to ask the senator if, at the meeting of the Health Committee, and at the hands of Mr Kraska, I have sent a few such questions as those interested in... I would like to ask you whether you have raised this issue, whether one of these questions you have discussed and whether the problem that I am about to mention in a nutshell... How should this problem be interpreted from the point of view of professionals: doctors, those who took the floor at the committee meeting? Well, the question I've received and which I'm interested in is so... It has been 8 years since the adoption of the European Directive and there are still no regulations in Poland; it is, as they say, the 2008 Directive. The implementation of the European standards developed would significantly affect the safety of society and regulate the market for services. The main issue here is to ensure that the public is protected from excessive exposure to ultraviolet radiation, the introduction of a so-called "order for use." standard 0,3. And my question is this: is this request, this proposal... could this failure to introduce a European Union directive in Poland affect to some extent on this assurance of full security, or are these simply parallel issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u5	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, here's the question: is there any medical statistics, or is there any research that would define... Was there even a discussion at the Health Committee on the negative impact of ultraviolet radiation causing these reactions that the senator was talking about? I'd like to know more about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Major's still here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Senator, I have a question about restricting promotion and advertising, because to me, to the Senator's office, that's the question. In view of this limitation, the display of solarium information in a cosmetic plant, e.g. At the exhibition, is it going to be a violation of this law, or is this something acceptable? Was there a discussion on the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u9	Thank you very much. Senator, we're gonna take a short technical recess right now, because the delegation is leaving... Thank you very much to Mr Babloy and his delegation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] See you tomorrow, thank you very much. President Ara Babloyan is a child surgeon who specializes in liver transplantology, which is why he listened with such curiosity. There you go, Senator. Three questions, three answers, and then the next one reporting for questioning. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u10	I answer to Senator Boris-Damięcka. Those letters that you're talking about that they've covered... were addressed to our offices, and I didn't get them until after the committee meeting and I read them after the committee meeting. Well, every letter is a symptom of some concern, a problem that may arise, but we didn't discuss it on the committee. With regard to the implementation of this EU law and provisions in 2008, please note that we are in 2017 and only the President has raised this and the President's Office has drawn up such a law. So that it is high time that we implemented these EU records. And as for the risks... the risks will always be there, but we can't stop everything from happening to our citizens. We can't really stop smoking cigarettes, we can't stop drinking alcohol, even though it's harmful, even more victims... We talked about this on the committee, that smoking and drinking causes a lot more Poles to get sick and die than skin melanoma. That's what I was talking about. The risk is always and there is no total ban. We're just trying to protect the youngest generation because there's epidemiological evidence for this. This will be a partial answer, but only a partial answer, given to Senator Jackowski. That the highest risk of getting sick carries short series of ultraviolet radiation at a young age or permanent exposure to ultraviolet radiation, even sunny but constant exposure. This is also linked to the answer to Senator Jackowski's question. In 1965, we had 144 cases of malignant melanoma. We now have almost 3,000 of these diseases. And what's alarming... For epidemiology of malignant melanoma is characteristic of the fact that so far the main diseases were in the fifth, sixth decade of life, in the eighth, if anyone lived to see And now he's looking forward to a lot more people, of course, and thank God But this trend is turning back and over 70% over the last three decades. The incidence of malignant melanoma increased in the group of people aged 20 and 40 years. And we can't wait any longer. Mr. Senator, what other epidemiological data... Maybe. The greatest threats: intermittent episodes of radiation at a young age, multiple sunburns, bright skin skin skin... Well, it is more common in the white race and more often in people with high social status, which in turn is associated with a certain fashion for sunbathing, with trips to warm countries. The Scandinavian countries have this problem. In those countries I'm saying this as an oncologist. In the previous century, this phenomenon was observed and became more interested in this problem. The Scandinavians began to leave in the winter on holiday in warm countries, and physiologically their organisms are not adapted to such conditions. Therefore, there are many more diseases there. In Poland, there are 50% of these diseases so far. less than in other countries of the European Union and this is the moment to take such action. Mr. Senator asked me about restricting promotion and advertising. There are records so as not to promote... The sanitary and epidemiological station will issue appropriate arrangements as to how information... Dear Senators, as we look at some solar advertising, we can see that these incentives are simply stunning. That's what we have to avoid. This is a work for the government and for the health and epidemiology services, and it is about the right regulations on the rules of promotion and on the control of this promotion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u11	Thank you, Senator. Now for another series of questions. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In the context of this right initiative, I would like to point out that the Act introduces a rigid age limit of 18 years. This means that a young person, who is 18 years old and 1 day old, will be able to benefit widely from kindness or rather from the evil of this solarium. My question is, first of all, whether, according to these health claims, these devices are somehow certified. Secondly, or as part of prevention, such as: in the case of smoking or alcohol use, should not there be attention in public space, a mandatory remark about the harmfulness of improper use of the solarium, so that it concerns not only the customer but also the operator? And finally, thirdly, who's gonna check it out? [[I mean...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u13	Senator, wait, I'm sorry... Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question. Recently, I read the information of the Polish Society of Oncological Surgery, which indicates that the United States is a good example of the positive effect of banning the use of solarium by minors. The information campaign even caused the percentage of solarians to fall by 40% among American students. Was the American case discussed at the committee meeting? Do we have any information on what this is like in European countries? Was this discussed at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u15	Thank you very much. And Senator Waldemar Sługocki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question à about a directive that you've been polite to invoke. My question is: will the entry into force of this law, so to speak, consummate all regulations in this area at European level, or will there be any further need to adapt Polish legislation in order to fully harmonise Polish legislation with European law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u17	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski will answer the questions from the end. I have already said that this will be supervised by the epidemiological services, the State Sanitary Inspection. Now the problem is 18+, 18 plus 1 day. Because now it's called 18+. [[500+.]] Yes, Mr. Senator, this applies to every case that's allowed from here to here. We're in a committee meeting... Here's the answer... Maybe not. One at a time. It's hard to tell if anyone's gonna act this unreasonablely. I think that the promotion of knowledge about the harmfulness of the solarium will also have the effect that adults will measure the use of it. We know that too. I don't know if the committee was talking about it anymore, or if I know it from other sources. That there are addicts who use the solarium, are always tan, except for the high risk of skin melanoma and other cancers, as well as faster aging of the skin. Except melanoma is the worst, because if we miss his early form, which can be surgically cured, as I said before, it's virtually incurable. So that we have no influence on such behavior. That applies to any ban. That's how you... [[Warning provisions.]] I'm sure the warning regulations will be. As I said, the State Sanitary Inspection and the government will be taking care of this. Now I'm going to answer to Senator Swede. The experience of the United States was not cited, but Senator Wojtyla spoke quite a bit about the need for wise, good promotion of prevention against malignant melanoma and the prohibition of excessive use of solarium. You, too, now I've looked at my notes like this. He asked with care whether the government would have enough money to promote it because it cost everything. And as far as Senator Slugocki's question is concerned, there was no discussion. I can't say anything about it. But we have the Minister of Health in the courtroom, and we have the President of the State Sanitary Inspection. Maybe they'll answer those questions. [[We have a minister from the President's Office in the courtroom.]] You're... I already told you, Mr. President, I'm sure... That's why I didn't... The senators are kind of forcing me here to ask more questions than they did at the committee meeting. And I wouldn't want to speak for the Minister of the President's Office because it's a presidential bill. The point is that he can present us with the intention of this initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u19	Already? Yes? Good. Thank you, Senator. Now you're Senator Barbara Boris-Damian again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u20	Thank you. I'd like to ask. As far as I'm concerned personally, I'm not in favour of using solariums, but I'm talking about being able to explain the matter in depth to those concerned before we make a decision. I would like to ask whether the introduction of a directive, which has not been introduced in Poland so far, will have a significant impact on the clarification of the control of the use of solariums in both age groups and health problems, above all on the quality control of devices. Will the introduction of the Directive have an impact on this? Is the absence of this directive a separate matter, and the issue of safety, quality of equipment and their control is a second matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u22	Solaria emits ultraviolet rays and this is one of the main reasons why you want to fight them. Did the committee's meeting mention that there are other, much more dangerous devices that emit such rays? I mean inverter welders, which are generally available and for which there are no restrictions, no information, no advertising. So on the one hand we're fighting solariums, okay, and on the other hand inverter welders are in every industrial store on the shelf without any information about the radiation in their case.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! As the result of the law will be a reduction in the number of customers who use solariums, I would like to ask if we have any data on how this will affect the labour market, the reduction in the number of jobs in this service sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u25	Thank you. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I answer to Senator Boris-Damięcka. That's why the bill... I'd have to read it all here. She's in print number 582. This bill is just to control the devices emitting ultraviolet radiation, in this case solariums. I'm sure it will. And as for the fate of the directive, I will repeat it, I will say what I said to Senator Slugock that I will ask the Minister here to help me answer this question. As for the question of Senator Pekkis... No, there was no discussion about other devices emitting that kind of radiation. I don't know much about it, although I do know, but this is another topic that every device connected to the current emits radiation, if not ultraviolet, electromagnetic, and it's also under the look of epidemiologists for cancer, because it's one of the important factors for cancer, many cancers, brain cancers, different organs. Ultimate electromagnetic radiation, trams, dryers, microwaves, everything that's online... Maybe that's the reason, Mr. Senator, for taking another legislative initiative. Senator Szymanski asked if there was a discussion about the loss of jobs. There was a short thread, but we didn't really develop it. From my point of view, I don't think there will be any job losses, because we don't ban solariums. We prohibit the use of solariums only for children and young people up to the age of 18. And since moms lead their kids there before the First Holy Communion to make them look nicer, that's the fact. commonly known. That's why we want to raise public awareness through promotion and... We have a lot of options here. The National Sanitary Inspection will also find ways to make people aware of the harmful use of solariums. I don't think it's gonna reduce the number of jobs, but that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u27	Are there any more questions for the senator? I don't see any volunteers. Well, thank you very much, Senator. This bill was introduced by the President. The Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Paweł Mucha, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Are you the Minister of... Yeah, I can see that. You're welcome. I'd like to invite the Minister. Welcome to the meeting of Professor Piotr Rutkowski at the Oncology Center. Hello, Professor. I also welcome the Undersecretary of State, Minister Zbigniew the King. Hello, Chief Health Officer, Minister Mark Possokiewicz. Hello, gentlemen. And now the Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! The Senator rapporteur has answered most of the questions. I would just like to refer in two areas to the doubts raised by the senators in the course of their questions. As regards issues relating to the current regulation, we have a regulation which has been issued in the framework of the implementation of the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, and this regulation refers to issues related to the requirements of electrical equipment. Today, this is the only regulation in force that serves the activities of solarians in terms of technical standards, technical requirements to be met by solarians. With regard to issues related to the draft health protection law presented by your President against the consequences of using the solarium, which the Sejm adopted on 15 September 2017, in this case, the aim, as it was said, is above all to reduce the number of diseases, and subsequently the deaths of Poles caused by melanoma of malignant skin. Referring to the votes à referring to European, international circumstances, it should be pointed out that the recommendations of both the World Health Organisation and the European Commission clearly indicate that solarium use contributes to skin cancer, including melanoma. We are aware that this risk applies primarily to children and young people. During this period, the skin is not fully mature, it has less natural protection, there is a much higher risk, even if you use a solarium once, the development of melanoma in the future. The statistics we hold show that several times the use of solarium by people under the age of 30 raises the risk of skin cancer by as much as 75%. Thus, the Act introduces a total ban on sunbathing in a solarium for people who are under 18 years of age. To answer the senator's question, I would like to say that this is the limit of age, this is the limit of full legal capacity. On our 18th birthday, we have a situation that... a teenage person will consider whether Despite the fact that solarium use is harmful It wants to perform this kind of beauty treatment on its body or not. For us, the primary objective is to protect the well-being of minors, children and young people, because we know that these practices are very negative, and the effects of solar systems can be the effects that will spread over the next years. Even a one-time procedure greatly increases the risk. With regard to issues related to the solutions that are in the Act, it is, of course, an obligation to inform about the risks associated with exposure to ultraviolet radiation emitted by solariums. There is a ban on the promotion and advertising of solar services, because it is information that may mislead and, as scientific data show, there is no confirmation of the positive effects of solarium use, or even the opposite. This accelerates the aging process of the skin. The circulation of opinions about the fact that there are some health benefits does not confirm. Solarium is not beneficial for vitamin D production or antidepressant. As far as the details of the incidence are concerned, we also provide these data in the justification of the Act. And here we're talking about the fact that once a person under the age of 30 uses a solarium, it increases the risk of skin cancer by 20%. We're talking about this data. They are very alarming when it comes to malignant tumors, about melanoma of malignant skin. It's included in the National Cancer Register. The senators have it included... With regard to the dynamics of registered melanoma disease in 1999 and 2014, this is a graph that clearly indicates that the incidence has increased in these years. We are dealing with multiple growth, both in terms of men and women. So that the data Very detailed, but also appalling, are undoubtedly also the basis for such legislation to be introduced. With regard to economic impact issues, it is very often the case that solarium is a certain component, whether it's a beauty cabinet or a wider range of activities. And we're talking about excluding the possibility of using the solarium only by a minor. In the case of an adult, we are talking about making sure that such a person is fully aware of all the negative consequences of using the solarium so that they are aware of this. No promotions, no advertising. In the rapporteur's speech, it was also appropriate to refer to legislation which regulates economic activity in relation to issues relating to the protection of the health and life of Poles, to legislation relating to alcoholism or to regulations introducing certain prohibitions on smoking. Here is an absolutely the same situation. This is a very serious social threat. Many European countries, many countries in the world have already taken concrete legislative action in this area. By taking this initiative, Poland will join those countries that want to fight the problem that is a very serious risk of skin cancer today. This is the tumor with the greatest rate of disease growth, hence the President's initiative. I ask the High House, the High Senate, to support the submitted project. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u30	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you about the directive, to draw up what you asked Senator Slugocki because you did not answer that question. Does this law exhaust all aspects of the implementation of this EU directive, which has not yet been implemented in Poland? Please refer to it. And correct us because Senator Czudowska here said that this is the 2008 directive, and we found the 2006 directive. Could you tell me what year this directive is from? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question, let's say the same question as before... I was talking about the Polish Society of Oncological Surgery, which is precisely pointing to the United States as a good example, where such a ban was introduced for minors... [[Question.]] ...when it comes to using the solarium. Do we know what it looks like in other European countries? Which countries have possibly introduced such a ban on minors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u33	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u34	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question that may be a little different from the direction in which the discussion has so far been going. I read in Wikipedia that one of the ways money laundering is such a fast service activity and as an example are also mentioned solariums there. Are there any examples where, under the cover of solar systems, such activities may have occurred? It would also shed some light on our discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u35	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Ladies and gentlemen... Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll answer it one at a time. Mrs Senator, the law, as I have pointed out, refers to the scope of application of health protection from the consequences of solarium use, i.e. it is not an implementation or an objective of implementation of one or another EU directive. Here this context was based on objective data contained in the National Cancer Register, which are available to Polish oncologists, which are also available in reports from the European Commission and the World Health Organization regarding the negative consequences of solarium use. The thread you're asking the senator about is more of a thread, I'd say, activity in the future. I think that here representatives of the State Sanitary Inspection or the Ministry of Health will be able to provide more detailed information in this regard. As I pointed out, these issues also cover the issue of the regulation, which refers to requirements for electrical equipment, but we do not address problems related to the issue of intensity or the issue of technical standards in the field of regulation. We are just saying that objectively UV radiation is a radiation that has negative health effects and the purpose of the law is to ban the use of solar devices by minors, to ban promotion and advertising, and to inform about harmful health consequences. And in this respect, also as regards the content of information and the statutory regulation, we have a reference to the implementing regulation. Hence, action will be taken by the Ministry of Health. So that I think the problem that you and the senator have raised earlier is a much broader problem beyond the framework of this legal matter and beyond the scope of standardization contained in the bill. For us, the health goal is the primary goal. As far as issues related to the presentation of the Polish Society of Oncological Surgery are concerned, I will say yes. Of course, we have data that indicate that the ban on the use of solariums by minors is acting because awareness is growing. In general, statistics on the number of people using total solariums in the whole population are falling significantly, as social awareness is increasing if such a ban includes minors. The US experience also shows that, if we are particularly protecting minors, knowledge about this, or social self-awareness, is much greater. As far as European solutions are concerned, we have such a situation that such regulations are in Norwegian, Swedish, English, Austrian, Belgian, Finnish, French, Spanish, Irish, German... And I could go on, because, as we pointed out, this is also in the non-European system, for example. in the United States. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, we also point out that restrictions are of different kinds From the issue of rules which prohibit minors from sunbathing in the solarium at all, through certain obligations to inform about the effects of radiation on the possibility of illness and health, through the obligation to instruct the customer and certain specific provisions concerning the maximum duration of exposure to sunbathing, to certain specific technical requirements relating to solar equipment and to bans on advertising of solar services. And such a very comprehensive catalogue, as regards the solutions introduced today in many European countries and outside Europe, is included here. So the data in this area are, of course, objective and indicate that the problem needs to be regulated. Besides, as the senator pointed out, the oncologist community, the scientific community has been fully raising these demands for many years. This law was supported by the Ombudsman and was supported unanimously by parliamentary teams, and there was support in the Health Committee For this, I thank you very much the honourable Members who have been leaning down on this project as part of the work of the Senate Health Committee. I am convinced that these solutions are justified and adequate. I can say, Mr. Senator, with reference to the raised thread, that from my past and my solicitor's activity Of course, from a time when I had not yet had the privilege of working at the President's Office, I am familiar with such cases that such, I would say, companies providing very different types of services can be financed from various sources... But this aspect is not justified or subject to our detailed reference. There were also other questions from the senators here. On the one hand, it was a matter of regulation, on the other hand it was a matter of requirements. I am convinced that this solution, which will indicate that there must be information about harmfulness, plus a ban on promotion and advertising, will lead to such a situation that a person who is fully aware of the risks will decide whether he wants to use the solarium or not. But first of all, let us protect children here, first of all protect minors, because today the situation is a very big problem in Poland. Of course, we also refer in the explanatory memorandum to the fact that, since we are talking about this value, which is the constitutional value of freedom of economic activity, In fact, the constitution is directly referred to in the article. 22 is in the case of a certain conflict of values, i.e. the freedom of economic activity and the need to protect life and health, we consider this interference justified. We consider these mechanisms contained in the Act to be proportionate and proportionate to the problems that this issue is facing today. So, let's face it, it's not only about the great human tragedy of death or cancer, but also about the costs that the State Treasury is bearing today in the process of treatment, as part of health expenditure, including those related to the negative consequences of solar treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u38	I have not received a clear declaration from Senator Czudowska, and that is why I am sending it to you again. And it's also such a small smuggling... And the question was this: in places where young people can benefit, so potentially, from the solarium, there will be a sign that says bans, bans on the provision of these services to young people, under the threat of responsibility, I think that she is included in the bill And the use of these services by young people? [[Thank you very much...]] Just as it concerns alcohol. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: I already...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u39	Wait a minute, Minister. First, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Sorry.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question related to this, but not directly, about limiting the age of people using solariums. I'm talking about the tan addiction, this condition is called tantexia. Are there any tests, do you have any information on the scale of the problem, the number of addicts? And the second part of the question: are psychotherapeutic, psychological classes in Poland with such people? Is it known whether such methods of assistance are available to persons who are dependent on sunbathing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u41	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal! I answer to Senator Jan Rulewski: there are two provisions of the Act, art. 4 and Article 4 5. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 It is desirable that advertising, promotion of services are prohibited and that carriers or media are indicated for which, in particular, this prohibition will be prohibited. This is an example. But this prohibition is a general ban; it will refer to posters, large format posters, IT services, all spheres. So we are talking about a general ban on advertising and promotion of solar-sharing services. And in the article. 5 is prohibited from making solarium available to minors. And these two provisions need to be read in total, the general prohibition applies in general to solar services in terms of advertising and promotion. Why? Because research indicates that the most common reason for using solarium is the desire to improve your appearance, but very often also such a misconception that it is something that not only improves your appearance, but also leads to a better health situation, while in fact, as we said, there are no such positive effects. As far as the issue of sunbathing addiction is concerned, I can tell you quite frankly that such details are not known to me. Of course, the problem is well known, but as far as the particulars are concerned, the question should perhaps be addressed to the Minister. These are data that the Ministry of Health can have, however difficult it seems to me, because it is a matter of secrecy, of people taking advice in private offices and in public offices. I don't know if anyone aggregates that kind of data. But this is a situation that, as I say, we are discussing today, by presenting objective data, we are raising the level of public awareness. When it comes to the use of solarium by an adult, there is no basis for legal interference of such a kind as to prohibit the making available of solarium at all. This is a question, as we said, similar to the conditions for using various drugs. We know that there are problems and that there are addicts. And this is also a matter of, while maintaining common sense, the conditions... of how an adult directs his life and what activity he takes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you, Mrs Marshal.]] There are no more questions for the Minister. Thank you. [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Zbigniew the King is with us. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to speak first of all on this point that the government is in favour of this law and we are very pleased that it has even begun to be procedated. We thank the President for this initiative because it puts us among those countries that actually solve the problem of excessive use of solariums, especially by children and young people. And as the Minister of the President's Chancellery said here, we are indeed among those European countries, a relatively large number of which, you can say, close, close through this law, which I hope will be passed by you. The patterns are actually different. There were also questions about the United States. The United States is a kind of federation conglomerate. In all states there is this ban, in some there is a reference even to the 14th year of life, which is a little more liberal than ours. But the questions that were more addressed to me from this speaker concerned directives and implementations. This Directive refers to solarians and other lamps which cause ultraviolet radiation production, and it indicates the definition of a standard of 0,3 W/m2. This is a directive, which is a normative directive, which is not mandatory. But with us, the Regulation of the Minister of Development of 2 June 2016 on requirements for electrical equipment which standardise technical requirements to be met by solar panels indicates and specifies: requirements for electrical equipment, conformity assessment procedure, scope of technical documentation of this equipment. So that you can say that when it comes to this aspect, we're doing fine. He's a little out of this bill. The law mainly refers to the age of children and young people and imposes an obligation on solar companies, solarians, to document these matters. The element here, thanks to this bill, is equally important, and in our opinion... [[Voice from the room: More important.]] ...maybe even more important is the fact of informing about the harmful use of ultraviolet radiation devices. This will allow the Ministry of Health to fully achieve the objective of the 4th National Health Programme, for which we refer precisely to information and education activities related to awareness of the risks associated with excessive exposure to ultraviolet radiation as part of the reduction of health risks arising from physical, chemical, biological risks in the external environment, workplace, residence, recreation and science. These elements are listed in the Annex to the National Health Programme Regulation for 2016 and 2020. So solarium and this information is one of the elements of the program. So that we support the presidential project and ask for its adoption.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will no longer sit, because we will announce a break. I'm about to announce a recess because there's going to be a Daddy's letter contest; the kids are already waiting in room 217. So, thank you for the moment, Minister. Perhaps after the break, there will be questions for you, so stay with us. Dismissed until 1 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 58 to 13 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u46	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let's resume the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We are back to discussing the first item of the agenda: the Health Protection Act against the consequences of solarium use. I would like to remind you that the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Zbigniew Król, had spoken before the session was adjourned. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Czerwiński and Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am opposed to the ideology of the economy. Please tell me how it is that the European Union, in its directives, is so deeply addressing the issue of solariums in the care of our health and, on the other hand, excludes the possibility of using ordinary tungsten filament lamps and introduces ultraviolet light bulbs or halogen lighting. Do you see any contradictions here? And will it really result in the exclusion of solariums from general use when it comes to young people, of course, when it comes to health? Has there been any research?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u48	I ask you, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I agree not to ideologicalize the issue. I mean, we support the bill. I'll remind you one more time. Presidential, where all epidemiological indicators are discussed. So that it is stated there, what is the exposure, especially at the age of children. And every exposure to ultraviolet rays... It is indicated what is the risk it poses in terms of cancer and especially melanoma. And that's why we support her. And on what the European Union is doing, I find it difficult to express myself clearly. Because as far as I know, LED radiation doesn't seem to contain these phases of dangerous ultraviolet radiation, because it's just about other radiation. Replacing light bulbs with other sources is also a bit foreign to me, I'll tell you honestly, and I don't really know what led to this change, except perhaps the question of reducing energy consumption. But I can't answer the question of ideology.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u50	Thank you. Now you ask Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, a question has been asked by the rapporteur of the committee on the relevant directive. I'd like to ask, though. not to implement the directive, whether that law is incompatible with it in some way. That's the first question. Second thing. The law that we are currently looking at is basically only about a small part of protecting young people, people until they reach adulthood, from harmful activities. And one more question. Do we, I don't know, have a regulation, regulations that require solarians to make requirements for the quality of equipment and health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u52	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u53	I was talking about the directive before the recess. There is one sentence in the Directive that indicates that radiation should contain 0,3 W/m2 should not be higher. This parameter 0.3 W/m2 is the highest radiation tested on Earth, i.e. solar radiation, ultraviolet radiation on the equator on a cloudless day at noon has 0.3 and this is the maximum level. The directive is normative, which means we approach it in a kind of... She's not mandatory. This law as if we were not guided by necessity in any way, because it is 0,3 that has been in force in Poland since 2009. All new equipment after 2009 must take into account this parameter. But there is a regulation of the Ministry of Development of 2016 indicating it for other electrical devices, including solar lamps. So much for this regulation. In fact, the bill refers, you can say, to the section of the population. The skin for non-doctors is also an organ. She's growing. The skin has many layers, it develops and at different ages, at different stages of human development is subjected to this radiation to varying degrees and reacts to it. Hence the concern of the President, the desire to protect children and young people, as in most European countries, as in the United States or Canada. That's what this project is about. As for the regulations, there is a meeting of the College of the Minister of Health at 1 p.m. today and we are preparing a regulation on this project, which is to inform about certain standards. This is a regulation of the Ministry of Development, which I also called before the break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u54	Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u55	Minister, haven't you analyzed such a simple scheme that, if something is not prohibited, it is common, access or use by young people who are interested in it or not is marginal? I'm talking solariums. After all, you can see who uses the solarium and who does not use it, you can see the face and e.g. In winter, most youths do not use solarium. It's just obvious. Now, on your initiative, we are introducing a ban on your initiative. Don't you think that imposing a ban will make it more attractive for young people because it's going to be another thing that's only available to adults? Don't you feel like we're creating a problem here?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u56	I'm gonna start by saying this is a presidential project, but supported by the government, which is why I'm gonna answer. Here's the ban. This is one element. The ban that is being observed is the second element in this bill. The third element, equally important, is the information about harmfulness. Rather, we count on the opposite effect, that, through the concern expressed by this law, the indication that UV radiation is harmful, even in compliance with these lower standards, this 0.3 W/m2, and above all, it is harmful to children and young people, to the skin of people in this very period of development. We're also counting on us to run... Well, we're not counting, we're running a media campaign. We have a target. The National Health Programme, under which we deal with the public health of Poles, speaks about the effects of exposure to physical, chemical substances, etc. And in this area, we want to launch a wide-ranging information campaign. We'll do it right after this bill is passed. And then there's this regulation I was talking about here, Senator, that it's being processed at the ministry today. So that I understand that the bans can also, so to speak, stimulate, but we also want to conduct an information campaign for everyone, including adults, and we hope that it will reach many Poles that the use of solariums is not as good as for example. short term solar bath. I guess we need to talk about that, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u57	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! That last sentence you said was about the question you asked Senator Pekkis about. Of course, bans are a limiting element, but that's not enough. We were very interested in this at the committee meeting, and I think it is worth repeating this in the debate. Could you tell the Minister more about this? Do you have any plan, or is he just about to be born? It is about the process of widely understood education on the harmfulness of solar systems. I don't think I have to convince the Minister that the ban itself will have the same effect as many other prohibitions. That is why this element of education is important. Do you have any idea of, I don't know, advertising this idea? It is also about reaching out to a large group of people not only in one year, but systematically, successively, so that it is part of a larger education, not a one-time action done by some marketing company, which will make a certain projection and say: we finish the project. If you don't mind, I'd like a few words about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u59	I'm not going to talk about specific activities right now. This plan and this bill are part of the fourth operational objective of the National Health Programme. This fourth operational objective is to reduce health risks arising from physical, chemical and biological risks in the external environment, workplace, residence, recreation and science. It is entered in the National Health Programme for the years 2016-2020. I'm not gonna answer a question directly about solariums because we're waiting for a bill so we can have a contest. Because these are programmes that are based on competitions for the media campaign, mainly for children and young people, but also for adults, or on the question of effectiveness. Usually within this program, the National Health Programme, which started its operation since the last quarter of the previous year... These elements are also included, so that at this point I answer: no, but immediately after the bill has been passed and signed by your president we will begin work.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u60	I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Anthony Szymanski. [[Stanisławek...]] Oh, that's for protocol. I'm sorry. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I welcome this initiative, although it is a very small part of care for health care in Poland. It can be said that it is an insignificant fragment, not affecting the average time of life of Poles. Nevertheless, any such law, any initiative that raises the level of prevention of our society, is at my heart. I've been doing this for 38 years now, treating people as an oncologist, and I'm just gonna say one thing: how invaluable is health, only the one who knows who lost it. I, Minister, would go further. When you are on holiday by the Polish sea Mostly in June, July, August, you can see very many small children, completely undressed, running on the beach. I would see such inscriptions on the beach: a ban on sunbathing for Polish citizens up to 18 years of age between 10.00 and 4.00 am. It's not like we're gonna talk about how cancer is growing, and they're wondering if it's gonna affect the profits of companies that have these kinds of devices. What does it matter? What does it matter how much these companies lose? They'll take care of something else. We're here to take care of our citizens' health. And such inscriptions on Polish beaches, which talk about the harmfulness of sunbathing children and young people, should be. How do we get such a large increase in melanoma and other skin cancers? Well, I'm afraid it's from here. A child smeared with so-called. A filter... It doesn't matter; it won't burn, but melanocytes will be aroused. Due to the widespread use of filters, there is an increase in the incidence of skin cancers. And now we're gonna be wondering if solariums are good or bad. They're bad. I'm afraid sunbathing is just called sunbathing. solar baths up to 10.00 hours and after 4.00 hours during the period of the highest intensity of solar radiation. But let's not fire the baby with the bath. Let us not forget that the sun is life and that we must use the sun, but unfortunately we have the opportunity to use it to a limited extent. If we don't use the sun, we buy vitamin D3. Well, what's the point? So, unfortunately, some educational, basic information should be provided: when and how to use the sun. Why in Australia... Australia is leading the number of cases of melanoma. Well, unfortunately, the migration of the white race, which is clear skin, blue, green eyes, bright hair... is growing in melanoma in such a group. She should absolutely avoid excess sunshine. We have two problems here: primary and secondary prevention. We're working on this primary prevention right now. Secondary prevention will certainly be in a different area, but I absolutely sign off on it because it's a little something, but it's extremely important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u62	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! It'll be short, too, because I think every gesture, every move, every decision - including the decision of the Polish Parliament at the request of the President The initiative that saves at least one life is worth supporting. Anyway, at the committee meeting... I don't know how it was in the Seym, but I don't think there's going to be anyone in the Senate who's going to go against this kind of initiative. I'm signing off on what the professor said. And if it's a doctor with a professor's title, then it should be signed for the title itself and the meaning of the scientific knowledge and experience of the professor. I would like to draw attention to two elements. The first is an educational aspect. That's mostly... I am directing my words to the Minister of the King, the Ministry of Health, because Minister Mucha presented the initiative of the President and it is difficult to expect the President's Office to carry out further elements concerning the most important thing, namely education. Because what happened in the discussion that sometimes the forbidden fruit tastes the most... that's one thing. Secondly, Minister, knowing the initiative of Poles, I can already see such advertisements: in our office the solarium cannot be used by persons under the age of eighteen. And such: we join the policy of the Polish state against lighting young people under the age of eighteen. Well, Bols' boat and other cases have shown us how ingenious we are. So this is an important bill, but much more important, a thousand times more important is the issue of education. When I started an adventure with local governments in 1990 as deputy mayor and we went to Sweden to learn some things about self-government, the role of public authorities, we also asked them how They come to this perception of ecology, a healthy lifestyle. And they said, of course, except for this long-term job, which is the basis for systematic work... That's why, Minister, what you said... There's one commercial that won't do anything. She will of course bring some short-term effect, but more important is the long-term educational work. And when they introduced waste segregation, probably in the 1970s, education was in kindergartens. 90% education was done in kindergartens because this child was watching his parents when it comes to segregation. That is why I think it is worthwhile, together with the Ministry of Education, to consider the elements of the promotion of information concerning the harmfulness of using the excessive sunbathing mentioned by the professor or the use of the solarium. That is why this National Health Programme, which the Minister spoke about, will be effective when the maximum resources are directed at education from the beginning, working at the foundation. I from my long life remember many actions promoting the abandonment of various kinds of harm. And in fact, as happens in many situations, it ended, some time later it was completely forgotten. That's why systematic work is important. That is why I have asked and suggested, or perhaps even ask the Minister, to draw attention to the regulation that you are preparing to take into account the systematicness of the subject and the systematicness of work, the systematic repetition of problems and explanations. Then it will have a certain effect. And that is why, for the various reasons we have discussed and in committee, and during this debate, as Senators of the Civic Platform, we will support this bill. [[Bravo!]] But as part of my education, I would like to draw your attention, Senator Rooster and Ladies and Gentlemen, to two passages. I am very pleased that from this stand Minister Mucha, presenting the bill, referred to the authority of the European Commission. Well, I don't know if it's temporary or permanent, that the Polish authorities... [[Tell them to do what they've done so far.]] ... when preparing documents, they also refer to what concerns the opinion or the position of the European Commission. It is in our European family that it is important that we talk in the family as a family, not as an enemy with an enemy. That's one thing. Secondly, notice, here in this room we passed various kinds of important laws, whose vacatio legis was 12 hours. We agreed, someone was going to see the president quickly, Mr. President was signing these laws at night. I am glad that the solar system law has a 3-month vacathio legis, and I hope that this will be a good legislative example for the Polish Parliament, the Polish Senate, that you will no longer agree I address this primarily to the Senators of Law and Justice... Since such a law has a 3-month vacathio legis, we will never again agree that a law which has 568 pages, an education law, will enter into force overnight. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[If you didn't cut it, you couldn't...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u64	Senator Wojtyła speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like a little... I would urge you not to talk about the harmfulness of sunshine. Because right now, speaking of solariums, we're talking about sunbathing, sunbathing, sunbathing, sunbathing. Of course, this is not true, because sunlight transforms vitamin D3 into an active form of vitamin D3, which is as beneficial to health as possible. We are talking about the excessive use of ultraviolet rays in the offices that they offer... in the so-called. solariums. Here I would like to straighten this out, because this discussion can lead us to believe that sunlight... that being in the sun, in the fresh air, is something harmful to health. I'd like to straighten this out as a pediatrician. Being outdoors in the sun in our climate is essential for health, especially for the young generation. The point is not to get such information out of this room that being in the sun is harmful, because it breaks into public opinion, to public opinion, a discussion from such an esteemed hall as the Senate hall. Now we're talking about the increased incidence of melanoma. Of course, the most common cancer that is caused by ultraviolet rays is not melanoma at all, and basal cell carcinoma, which is not as aggressive as malignant melanoma, but there are other cancers that are harmful. And it is a fact what the Senator rapporteur said was that the number of melanomas and other cancers at an early age is increasing, which is mainly due to the fact that especially young girls are enjoying... This is not the only error of their behaviour due to the media, because they, in 60% with a proper body weight, or BMI, they lose weight, and pathologically. It's the same with solariums. There is a phenomenon of solar dependence. And that's what we should fight. Why are you up to 18? Well, ladies and gentlemen, up to 18 years old, because the formation of health behaviour in the young generation takes place during the childhood and teenage period. After 18 years, man gets proof and is a grown man, responsible for his health. But up to the age of 18, we as a society have a duty to shape health behavior. Senator Czarnobaj spoke about health education. This, Mr. Senator, is here the chief health inspector, in the 1960s and 1970s, that was how health behavior developed or changed health behaviour. Now we are talking about a broadly understood promotion of health, which is not just about health education. It was effective before the war: don't buy in a dirty shop. And that's what made shops that didn't meet such requirements less often for people to buy. Right now, we need to act on the subconscious, shape health behavior. And that's what specialists need to do, not doctors, and mass media and marketing specialists. Such specialists have the State Sanitary Inspection. She runs a series of actions, among others. Stay in shape! Several million children carry out the program - Keep in shape! I'm conducting the monitoring of this program. From 2006 to 2017, not only awareness but also children's weight and physical activity have increased only thanks to this programme. But he doesn't just rely on such health education that the child knows that physical activity is positive. It must know how to calculate BMI, what to eat, what is harmful to health, and participate in programs organized in schools by a health inspection that shapes these health behaviours of children. So it's more than just health education. Now I would also like to say that the health inspection has such experience. There was a programme for pregnant women in the fight against addiction. That's so-called. Swiss money program. After 4 years of implementation of this programme by sanitary inspection, the awareness of women's harmful drinking during pregnancy and before pregnancy increased. Only 10% before the program women realized that every amount of alcohol was harmful, and at the moment almost 90% considers that alcohol is harmful to health. And in this direction. You have to go. But, Senator, this is not going to be done by outside companies, because this is the practice of health inspection, that it will be done by the sanitary inspection itself, which has over 300 sanitary stations and which in every county has a health promotion department. There are people out there who know who are in contact with schools. So that's how health behavior will be shaped, because it's more important than any kind of ban. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u66	Thank you, Senator. Senator Chudowska has a voice. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus!]] [[We're gonna conclude...]] There you go. [[It's a good thing the sky is called upon to see me.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo! I will take advantage of the rapporteur's rights today. The senator was just talking about some risk factors. And I'll allow myself to take a minute on a slightly different subject, but also on health promotion. October is a month... [[Voice from the room:...to fight cancer.]] ...fights with breast cancer. Today we know the risk factors for breast cancer and we need to talk about them especially to young girls. It's overweight, it's a lack of physical activity, it's alcohol, it's hormonal contraception, it's not giving birth and it's not feeding children. I will allow all senators to put on the desktop the latest leaflet prepared by the Polish European Coalition Forum for the fight against Cancer Breasts - Europe Donna, which I run in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u68	Thank you, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal!]] Senator Blackbay in what mode? [[In corrigendum mode, because my name came up. I'm out of place, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u69	I would like to thank Senator Wojtyle very warmly for the information on prevention measures, which assumes that I don't get it. Not education, but better sanitary and epidemiological stations... I'd love to know which country it's in. I just called... [[At our place, in Poland.]] Wait a minute. I've just called two young people, and I've asked these gentlemen sitting here, if any of them have heard of the program, keep in shape. I understand that the senator knows him because he's doing this program, but if I do a poll, it turns out that 99 of us won't know him. And this, Mr. Senator, shows one thing: that there is no one perfect form... [[And education is always needed.]] ...and education is always... Emphasis, education. In many countries where I have been, education has been started, and sanitary and epidemiological stations have been part of complementing what is related to the basis, that is, education. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u70	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I also inform you that Szymański, Mikołajczyk and Łuczak have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[Because they have to come...]] [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 33 to 13 minutes 38]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the first item of the agenda... [[Talking in the O.R.]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all Thank you. We are back to discussing the first item of the agenda: the Health Protection Act against the consequences of solarium use. The discussion is closed. As announced earlier, we are voting on the bill under consideration. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 582 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of this resolution? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 71 senators voted, 70 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 1]] [[One held back, the one with the solarium.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Health Protection Act against the consequences of solarium use. We proceed with the examination of item two of the agenda: the act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please remain calm in the courtroom. [[Shh.]] If you're not interested, you can talk in cockroaches. The text of the Act is contained in print No 620 and the committee's report in print No 620 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I was honoured to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, which took place today. I feel honored as a resident of the Silesian Voivodeship, because this law concerns the area from which I come. Of course, we are talking about the Law on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. The purpose of the Act is to compensate, to a certain extent and within the scope of the State budget, for the financial losses incurred by persons who received free coal in kind or equivalent, on the basis of collective agreements and related agreements, and have lost this entitlement as a result of the termination of collective agreements and agreements relating thereto. The objective will be achieved by paying out the State's compensation for the permanent loss of the right to free coal. This is about the amount of PLN 2 billion 350 million. The Act sets out the principles and modalities for the implementation of compensation for the loss of the right to free coal, hereinafter referred to as compensation. The persons entitled to receive this benefit will be pensioners who not only had a fixed right to a pension for incapacity for work but also received a benefit from it, and who were entitled to coal free of charge on the basis of collective agreements, agreements or other regulations in force in a mining undertaking which had expired before the date of entry into force of the Act. In addition, widows, widows and orphans who are entitled to a survivor's pension after the above-mentioned pensioners will be covered by the Act. Compensation shall not be granted to an entitled person whose claims under the right to free coal are met on the basis of a final judgment. I'll explain what's going on in a minute. The Act provides that any person fulfilling the conditions for receiving compensation will be able to apply for payment by submitting an application together with a statement of specific content. An application for compensation shall be submitted by the person entitled to the competent paying undertaking, i.e. a specific mining undertaking, within 21 days of the date of entry into force of the Act. The amount of this benefit will be PLN 10,000. This benefit will be financed by a special subsidy granted by the Minister responsible for the economic affairs of fossil deposits at the request of the paying undertaking. The provisions of the Act provide that the paying undertaking will pay compensation by postal transfer, transfer to the indicated bank account or account held at the cooperative credit and savings bank. The paying undertaking shall refuse to pay compensation if the application is made by an unauthorised person. This person will be entitled to appeal to the labour and social security courts within 14 days of receipt of the refusal. The paying undertaking will be required to settle the grant granted for the payment of compensation payments and to hand it over to the Minister responsible for the management of the kosalin deposits within 15 days of the end of the payment of those allowances. The amount of this compensation will not form the basis for the assessment of health insurance contributions and will not be included in the income referred to in the Housing Supplements Act and the Social Assistance Act. Furthermore, deductions and executions will not be possible from this amount. On the date of the entry into force of the Act, the paying undertaking shall post on its website a model application for payment of compensation and a model statement. In addition, I will say that the bill is to enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement. Several amendments were made to the bill during the work of the Parliament. The bill was passed at the forty-nine sitting of the Sejm by 423 votes in favour, 10 abstentions, one vote against. It did not raise much controversy in the course of the Seym. Ladies and gentlemen, during the meeting of our committee, which was attended by representatives of the social side, i.e. the national mining section of NSZZ.Solidarity, there was a rather interesting discussion on the subject of this regulation. One amendment has also been tabled which has not been accepted by the majority of committees. The law has been passed and this is the position of the committee No corrections. So I move that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. During the discussion, there was some concern about possible social unrest related to the granting of compensation to one group for the loss of the right to free coal. But the ministry explained it quite accurately and clearly, i.e. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski, present at the committee's meeting, said this: please, this is not a form of donation, this is, please, a question of acquired rights. Because it is really a solution to disputes over rights acquired in the case of persons entitled to free coal. The benefit will be covered by 235 000 people, hence the amount of PLN 2 billion 350 million foreseen for this purpose. In the opinion of the Ministry, it will solve the problem of the past, i.e. the fact that mining companies did not entirely legally deprive miners, mining pensioners, the right to free coal, which in fact was part of the remuneration system, as I mentioned earlier, it was enshrined in collective agreements, agreements, and it was, it could be said, a mandatory component of mining wages. So this bill, ladies and gentlemen, we are trying to restore basic social justice. This solution mainly concerns a group of pensioners, pensioners, who went to retirement at a time when these benefits were not high. These victims are very often older people, and the funds of PLN 10,000 will be a form of compensation for the losses suffered by them. Many times, as I say, they're older people and... Only people who know the specifics of mining realize how hard it is to work on mines and how these environmental factors really reduce the lives of miners. So that it is absolutely necessary for these people to restore justice, which was at some point for reasons, I do not hide, economically disturbed. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the number of persons covered is concerned, I have already indicated it That's 235,000 people. During the committee meeting, a proposal for an amendment was also tabled to pay this benefit to a group of employees. It's about 12,000 people. Who will not receive this benefit. And they will not receive it because, in short, when they retired, they did not have the right to free coal. The mining companies practiced that they had signed contracts... that is, this element of the employment contract, regarding free coal, and the employees accepted those contracts. Therefore, there are no indications that these persons will be paid out. The argument of the Ministry of Energy, correct, is that such a possible payment of undue measures will be difficult to defend against the European Commission, and we are in the midst of a deep restructuring of mining and we will have to report to the European Commission on this restructuring and on its effectiveness. As for the committee meeting, there were some interesting questions. There have been questions about the budgetary resources, where these funds will come from. A special reserve will be created at the Ministry of Finance, from which it will be paid. There is still a question about the price of coal, which is not directly related to the subject of this regulation, because the price of coal does not affect, so to speak, the payment of deputies which will be financed by the state budget. It was also expressed by some members of the committee, senators care about Polish farmers, who were also injured by agreements at the entry of Poland into the Union, because we have reduced amount of direct payments. It is also as if it is not entirely related to the subject matter of this regulation. As I said at the beginning, the adoption of the law was passed at the committee meeting without amendment. And I'm asking for a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u72	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Elephant is the first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, this may not be a question for you and for the Minister, but I am interested in how the situation of those covered by the statutory regulations will look after they have already received this compensation. Now, is it going to be otherwise regulated for them, or are they in such a situation that everyone has already lost their right to this kind of gratification? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I thank you very much for this question, because during the presentation of the bill at some point I said I would. As far as the regulations introduced by this law are concerned, they relate to a somewhat backward period, 2012, 2013, 2014 in which the deputy was not paid. The situation that is currently taking place is quite complicated, because some mining pensioners have taken cases on the basis of the judgment of the Constitutional Court and these benefits are received by part of the persons, the cases of some persons are in the courts and some persons have been deprived of this. Law In the course of the discussion, I pointed out this It excludes persons who, on the basis of judicial judgments, have received such benefits from a group of entitled persons and, as the Ministry of Energy assumes, the law will resolve in a comprehensive manner at one time, ultimately the problem of those outstanding benefits which are, in fact, due. They are due because they have either been suspended or not paid. About what is now That was also the question at the committee's meeting. This is a very large discrepancy, because some mining companies are still paying the coal debt to workers, are those that have declared the payment of deputies, and there are companies that have suspended payments. I think that Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski will be able to speak more on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u76	You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. Under the proposed law, will widows, widows, and orphans be entitled to family pensions after entitled miners? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yes, Mr. Senator. During the discussion of this law, I pointed out that widows, widows, orphans who have a fixed right to a survivor's pension would be entitled to this benefit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u80	You're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u81	Thank you. I've got a question that maybe they'll specify, so to speak, a record or a statement. 'Cause the rapporteur says it's gonna be paid... Is it by the company or by the state? Because here is the difference maybe in words, but, I understand, it should be paid by the company, by profit or by anything else. And as far as the budget is concerned, this is the unidentified department from which this money will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I also pointed out that these funds will be paid by mining companies. They will submit an application to the Minister responsible for fossil deposits and, if I remember correctly, the Ministry will transfer funds from the state budget within 15 days. The payments will be mining companies, but the funds will come from the special reserve and I pointed out this too. It was created specifically in this way. So there's gonna be an amendment to the budget bill. And it will be from the state budget, which will be paid at the request of mining companies. The mining companies will then report to the Ministry of Mining on the implementation of this scheme. And yet the supervision of this program will have whether it will be monitored by the Industrial Development Agency, if I remember correctly from the contents of the law. Yes, the Minister nods his head, which means I was right. So that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u84	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u85	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, you said... I'll ask you a question about your speech during the presentation of the bill. You said that there were practices to limit this carbon equivalent, a deputy that were unlawfully implemented. I would ask you to give some examples of unlawfulness, information in which establishments this took place. And second question. Was the question of the payment of this equivalent by mines directly, without subsidies from the State budget, considered at the committee meeting? Were there any such questions and was she so... Was this a topic discussed at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u86	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If I'm gonna answer that question, I'm gonna answer it. Mr. Senator, as far as the wording is concerned, you were, as I was, at the committee meeting, where Senator Gawada here quoted part of the statement amending one of the employees of the Coal Company. And they can actually happen here, in the event of such a termination, such a form of termination... [[It was a different situation.]] It was a specific situation. [[But it's different than this one. Because in this situation...]] But we're talking about pronouncement, we're talking about... my wording was that agreements or contracts were being made, if that was in the employment contract. For example, there may be grounds for calling it mobbing. Well, if someone's giving someone a change notice to sign, which, if I say so, is bad for their business, you could call them here. Mobbing. [[Trade unions signed off on what kind of mobbing?]] As far as companies are concerned, I do not know the specific companies that... and I do not know how these agreements were dealt with. And the second part of the question... Could you remind me what it was about? [[It was about whether or not you were considering at the committee meeting...]] Oh, yeah, to make a profit... From the media, you know perfectly well... Well, you're not from the Silesian voivodship, but from media information you know that the mining restructuring program is in place. The European Commission has agreed to this. And mining companies... For example, PGG achieved, as I remember correctly, 8 million profits for last year. I may be wrong, but it was a small profit, not a loss, it was a profit. But at the committee meeting, Mr. Senator, there was also information that the payout of this coal debt in the current situation was about... Unless I'm mistaken, in the Polish Mining Group this is the cost about 200 million zlotys. In other words, we would charge the entity that is in the process of restructuring additional financial liabilities. Well, I don't think it's meant to be. These are actually the means that have been... I don't know if you remember, Senator. This is the continuation of my answer. That the Ministry's argument... Well, that's probably a question I'm gonna ask, so maybe I'll answer it right away. Why the miners? Well, it's the miners. Minister for Agriculture and Grzegorz Tobiszowski pointed to this, too, regardless of the mining situation... The situation was very difficult, mining had huge losses, but annually it affected the state budget about 6 billion from taxes just from mining. [[But what's so special about that?]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Anyone who conducts business must pay taxes.]] Yeah, I'm just saying that's the kind of amount that's been budgeting. It's not like we're giving someone something. These are the acquired rights that miners, mining pensioners had. Right? They were suspended and paid off. It was rescheduled... In fact, your government has been translating this into the future on the basis that we will deal with it in the future. And here's the moment, now is the future, and we're doing it. You people have been deluding these people for several years with carbon bills. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Right. It's in your day... [[Senator... talk about the bill, and don't go into politics.]] Well, thank you... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u88	Please. You asked questions, didn't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u89	Yeah, yeah, I'm just trying to clarify, 'cause Senator... Mr. Senator, I didn't ask about your artistic impressions of breaking the law, I asked if you knew specific examples. Places, bets In which these rights were violated. Mr. Senator's case... I don't know him, so I'd like to get to know him. I mean, do you know any of these, because you do... [[No, I told you... may I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u90	There you go, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u91	I've told you, Senator, that I don't know specific examples of betting...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u92	Thank you. Senator Leszek Infantry, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u93	Thank you very much. I'm not a member of the committee, so I'm going to ask you a specific question about the efficiency of this system. I'd like to know if there was a question at the hearing. and reply to them. On the way in which these proposals are implemented, the possibility to submit them. It's about 252,000 people. I haven't heard in any speeches so those applications can be submitted online. I'd like to know if such a question came up at the hearing. How many points are there gonna be where these applications can be submitted? I know that there have been allegations, and that is why this deadline has been extended to those 21 days. But if we subtract Saturdays and Sundays from these 21 days, it turns out it's 15 days. Assuming there are 100 points where applications can be submitted... Well, that's about 570 applications a day, and that's about three minutes per person. I think it's physically unenforceable. As usual, in the case of laws where we want to do the right thing... I am not questioning the validity of its creation and regulation at the moment. The question is whether this will even be feasible in this system as proposed. Was this the subject of discussion, or was this the question raised at the committee meeting and answered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u94	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u95	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for asking. Here's what I'm gonna say. No, it wasn't the subject of a committee meeting, no one asked. However, it seems to me that the 21-day deadline for submitting an application is sufficient. It's also important to remember that this type of document, a motion plus a statement... It's very simple. In this statement there is basically only the name, PESEL number and the content of the statement... They can also be sent by post. And as far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, it won't be a problem to apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u96	Senator Antoni Szymanski. I'm sorry, I didn't... Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u97	Mr. Senator, I have a question about those who will receive these compensation benefits. This benefit will not be included in the amount of health insurance contributions and it will not be possible to make any deductions or executions. You said it was an element of social justice. What is the social justice element if society commits to taxing around PLN 2.5 billion so that miners can give what is due to them and at the same time the miners are told that they do not have to fulfil their obligations towards society? Don't you think that's a denial of social justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u98	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u99	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. No, I don't think so, Senator, to put it bluntly. I'll be honest with you, I don't know. I think the Minister will answer that. The amount of aid granted by the State to the State in question is calculated on the basis of the total amount of aid granted by the State to the State to which the aid was granted. Was he covered in premiums at the time? That's a good question. I suspect he wasn't. Therefore, we do not charge them at this time, in this law, also this benefit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u100	Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have simple questions. The first question concerns the total costs of this law. Next: how many people will be able to access this benefit? And three: is the committee aware of the economic situation of families or people who will receive this compensation? Is the economic situation of those families and people who receive it average, harder than the average family in Poland, or more favourable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u102	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u103	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I answer the question of the number of persons entitled to benefits: this is 235 000 people. And that's how I put it at 2 billion 350 million: 10,000 zlotys times 235,000 people. As far as the committee's meeting is concerned, there was no direct mention of the inclusion of this group of people in terms of income. In general, from the information provided by Minister Tobiszowski, it appears that most of these pensioners were people who left mining at a time when these pension benefits were quite low. And by the way, that kind of question might come up, and in my opinion, it's pretty important. Well, that's the view. In the rest of the country, not in the Silesian Voivodeship, that miners were always a privileged group. Polish gold is coal. Right? There were periods when the wages in mining were actually quite high compared to the average wages in the country, but this is hard work, very hard work underground, and unfortunately the wage situation has changed. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski also pointed out that we have very large staff shortages in the mines. It's just that people don't want to come to the mine, go underground to a depth of over 1,000 meters, and work there for that kind of money. Well, 3.5 thousand zlotys of wages, which is now received by the bottom miner at the beginning, are not money for which it is worth putting your life and health at risk. So that's what I wanted to talk to you about. Thank you. [[The doctors don't want to work either.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u104	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like the senator to explain why we're making this bill at all. In what period have these coal deposits been stopped? What kind of government was that? Thank you very much. [[In the Polish ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u106	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I wanted to avoid it. Senator Czarnobaj said I was a politician, just like Senator Klein, but it was as I pointed out. I have already answered this question: it was spread over time, but the fact that, so to speak, the main period for making agreements and suspending equivalents is 2012, 2013 and 2014. These were the years of the Civic Platform's rule, which tried to push away, put aside for the future when the mining situation would be good. It didn't happen during their reign, and we're healing it now. Thank you. [[You can tell stories like that in kindergarten.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u108	Thank you. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u109	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, 2 billion 350 million is a very large amount; it comes out of 10,000 for a single benefit. I would like to say that, in the context of budgetary expenditure, for example in the context of a protest in health care, the budgetary needs in health care, this is a really significant amount. I repeat, 2 billion 350 million. This money will not be paid out of the company's profit, because the company's profit is taxed, but will be paid out of the budget. And you used this... During your speech, you said it wasn't a donation. Therefore, I have another question. No fees, contributions for this purpose are to be deducted, so my question is this. Whether some, I don't know, income tax or any other contribution to this massive amount of 2 billion 350 million will be transferred to the state budget, or just this money will be paid... Well, then I could say it's a donation, but you said it wasn't a donation. I'd like an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u110	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u111	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, let me put it this way: you're wrong. You see, for your donation... I used the word "gift" in this context, that it is money, that is money or coal equivalents, these are debts which these people had included in the agreement, in collective agreements. These people have often agreed to this in connection with business negotiations. They realized that the situation, the condition of mining and their companies were bad, so they agreed to such suspensions. Unfortunately, in your day, it happened and the promises were that someday these funds would be paid back to them. As I have pointed out, we are now returning these funds. This isn't... this 10,000 zloty at the current price of coal is probably 10 tons of coal in a few years... These equivalents were originally higher. So that's the answer to that question. As for the second part of the question, what else did you ask me? If you could repeat... [[I mean, basically, I mean...]] It's about the encapsulation. I read it because before I answered that question, the funds are unexploded, which means there is 10,000 PLN to be paid. [[Put it in your hand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u112	Thank you. Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I don't know anything about mining, but I'm a resident of the Silesian Voivodeship, so these things touch me very much. I have the impression that there is very little knowledge about the rules for granting these equivalents. That's what he says, for example. .Solidarity, which has recently covered our offices with senators' writings on this matter. Some people think that they deserve it, others know... The pensioners know that they will not be entitled to it at all, others believe that they will receive it through the Social Security Office, others believe that they will get it from former employers. Don't you think this case would require a wider... I don't mean to say that education, because it's not a school, but some broader information, some substantive interpretation in resorts, in mines, in the local press, that could bring this up? I mean, where do these numerous questions come from and all the writings that go to our senators' offices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u114	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u115	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I thank you very much for this question, because people come to my office on this matter as well. This was not mentioned at the committee meeting, but as far as I can tell, after talking to the Minister, the Ministry of Energy In addition, the Ministry of Energy will not only engage in a media campaign, such a fast and intensive media campaign explaining the rules for granting this benefit. This is not possible at this point, Senator, for procedural reasons. We don't process this bill until the Senate. The bill will then, depending on its form, either return to the Sejm or go to the President's signature. Well, it would be hard to say, to start some media action before the bill was passed, before the president signed it and before it came into force. In general, according to the Ministry of Energy's declaration, the Ministry of Energy, you can say, is already ready to implement this law. But as I say, media action cannot be taken until the bill has passed the full legislative path. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u116	Thank you. Mr. Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u117	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Are there any social, professional groups in Poland besides the miners, which belong to coal depots? [[The railroadmen...]] Railroads, for instance? [[May I?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u118	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u119	Thank you. Let me answer the question: I don't know if there are other groups. Probably not, probably just miners... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] [[And the railroads? Those deals they had written in...]] I don't know. I don't know. Well, here's a friend of the senator's that the railroads had a coal debt in their collective agreements... I don't know if there are other entities... [[I understand that to the Minister...]] It wasn't the subject of a committee meeting, but maybe the minister will know who else the coal dealer...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u120	Good. Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u121	Senator, I'm sure the committee had arguments, questions, doubts... It's about PLN 2.3 billion. Where is this amount in the budget if the law is to enter into force immediately after its adoption? I understand he's coming in no later than December 15, because probably today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the Senate will approve her, the president is 30 days old... so this year she's gonna come into force, and there's no such thing in the budget. Question two: do you know the law in Poland well? I'm asking in the context of your use of the concept of offensive to staff crews, management and trade unions, when you claim... I'm asking you to explain this, and that's my question: when you used the word that the crews were being mobbing, did you want to... Is it true that the mining unions have bowed to mobbing? What were they doing about it? Has the State Labour Inspection, which has an obligation to register the legal characteristics of local governments, also bowed down? Do we live in a state of mobbing? And do the state of this view show that this mobbing should be used?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u122	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u123	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Well, I'll answer the question. I've already answered that question, Senator. That's how it's done. As regards the termination of employment contracts, which, I say, have been unilaterally annexed or amended, it seems to me that there may be grounds for mobbing here. I didn't say it was a violation of the law. [[They were forced.]] [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal.]] They were coerced, coerced... Yes, ladies and gentlemen... [[...about slowing down... The layouts contain among others. Equivalents...]] So, Mr. Senator, I said... [[With the consent of both parties, they were concluded.]] ...I've indicated... Either they were made with the consent of both parties, or they were pronounced... [[By one of the sides.]] Well, I don't expect the union side to talk about the carbon-deputy system. I don't know, maybe the Minister will know such cases, but I don't know if, so to speak, in the Polish mentality, employees themselves made an agreement and resigned from the coal debt. [[They could have.]] Well, maybe they could, maybe they could. If you're saying, Senator, that in an offensive manner I have used the term... In my opinion, mobbing is, well, a violation of the law. Whether someone's gonna report this mobbing to a job inspection or report it to a labour court, that's another matter. But you are well aware that the position of employers has been abused in our country for many years, and it's not just... I speak generally, widely, not only in businesses, but in the food industry, in hypermarkets, it was abused. And here's your question: was there a mobbing, was there no mobbing? It's probably still there. [[Okay...]] [[But, I'm sorry...]] [[No, Mr. Senator, the answer...]] [[But the question about the budget...]] [[Oh, the budget...]] Oh, in which budget item. Mr. Senator, I've already pointed out twice or three times that there's going to be an amendment to the budget. The funds will come from a special reserve created specifically for this purpose. The question is, which exactly are the budget paragraphs, either Senator Klein or Senator Blackobay asked at the committee meeting. Well, if there's no budget amendment yet, then we probably won't know those paragraphs. [[The surplus is, we have to do something about the money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u124	Good. Sir... [[Voice from the room: There is no surplus.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, further questions. Now I want to ask you a question. Mr. Senator, is it in this bill that entitled persons will receive this PLN 10,000 provided that they waive claims on those deputies that they deserve?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u125	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm not gonna ask you to speak anymore because you asked me a question... [[Yes. You're welcome.]] Mr. Marshal, we're talking about surrender. I can read to you from the text of the Act: I will not claim the right to free coal based on collective agreements, agreements or other regulations in force in a mining undertaking which have expired before the date of entry into force of the Act, as a result of agreements or terminations made. The case closes... In fact, it mainly concerns matters relating to judicial proceedings. They are excluded because there could be such a situation that someone will receive an equivalent payment and then will be charged in the court of payment of this equivalent as not received for previous years. And that's what's going on. I said there were three types of cases: suspension, termination, and some cases went to court and court proceedings were pending. And in this situation, if they receive this compensation, the court's claims, so to speak, will be excluded, so that there is no situation that someone will receive twice compensation, one on a judicial basis, and the other on an administrative, statutory basis. [[Not that someone's gonna get more.]] More, well, twice. [[He's predicting 10,000.]] Twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u126	Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Continuing this thread of Senator Jackowski's... Could you tell me the reasons for the poor condition of mining companies, mines in 2013... as you reported: 2012, 2013 and 2014. 'Cause you said... of course, we know who was guilty, and I'm not gonna name it. But could you give the reasons for such a very bad condition of mining companies, mostly mines, in these years?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u128	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u129	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would very much like to answer that question, but I think you will be able to give more to Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. I think he will tell you very carefully and very clearly about the causes of the irregularities in 2012, 2013, 2014. [[I'll ask the Minister separately.]] And I'll answer you. The scale of irregularities in Polish mining... I'll use a word that maybe one of the senators will say that... But no, he won't, because the court case is settled. Because the scale of mining theft, waste, was terrifying. I think Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski will be able to tell you about this for a long, long time: what were the irregularities, what amounts were just, so to speak, stolen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u130	Thank you. [[Oh, I'm sorry. I'll tell you what.]] But now it's... [[I know, Senator, that the Civic Platform was in charge at the time.]] [[That's what we know.]] [[Impossible.]] [[The voice from the hall: PSL did not rule.]] Senator Czesław Ryszka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like, Senator rapporteur, to extend the question which has already been raised here, about those who should be compensated, but for important reasons or other reasons, they will not be able to complete this request. That's the first question. And two: what about those who refuse to sign? And I've heard there's a lot of people who think that the 10,000 aren't happy with them. So what? You want them to go to court? What chance do they have to win this compensation in another form? [[Thank you very much...]] And... [[Oh, there you go, Mr. Senator.]] ...I have one more important question. Maybe it's for the minister, maybe the senator won't be able to answer. At the moment, many miners are staying on the so-called. mining leave. What's it gonna be like with their right to compensation or some other form of, say, compensation? The last of these miners will retire at the end of 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u133	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, answering the first part of the question... Well, it appears from the Ministry of Energy's declaration that this 21-day deadline will be sufficient. If it were to happen, there'd be some... First of all, I also argued that I think that there is nothing to prevent the request from being sent by post. Here were presented by one of the fellow senators' concerns for a short period of time, but I must say that when it comes to... Oh, then there's the appeal mode. Yet, as far as I know, it is possible to appeal the decision. I mean, like I said at the outset, the conclusion is simple. In principle, a PESEL number, first name, last name is enough. The declarations from the Ministry of Energy are that mining entities that will deal with withdrawals have employee databases, and here will be no problem, so to speak, with help. The proposal in electronic form will be made available on the websites, probably the pages of the Ministry of Energy, as well as mining companies. So that I don't see such a threat here, although I know about it, because to me too, just like to your Marshal the Pan-Pounder, they entered the e-mail box... I think we've all received e-mails about the concerns about the payment of these funds and about deadlines. I got it, too. [[May I say, Mr...]] [[Senator Czesław Ryszka... but there was also a question about those who are on mining leave.]] About those who... [[How are they gonna get...]] But it was for the Minister. I don't know. This is not apparent from the contents of the bill. [[We'll redirect it to the Minister.]] At least I don't read... [[There was also a question about those who would not agree to this solution. Right?]] Then I guess there's gonna be a court trail, 'cause it's... As I say, one statement excludes the other.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u134	I'll be back by the time I apply. The widow is also entitled to compensation. Right? And if he's a widow, he's also a miner's kid. We're gonna have to judge which amount of money we owe. It takes a long time for a paycheck.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u135	No, the applicant will be one person. Right? The applicant will be 1 person after the deceased, 3 applications will not be made because the deceased person in the mining company's databases will be one. Whether it's a widow or an orphan or, let's say, a child entitled to a survivor's pension after his father... 'Cause that could happen, too. Twice for the same person, the deceased's witness will not be paid because... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But someone has to split that money.]] But this, I think... I don't know, but I don't think the paying agent's gonna be part of the allocation. That's what I'm gonna say. It's gonna be shared in the family. No... [[Maybe the Minister will answer.]] I'm sure the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u136	As far as the wife is concerned, of course the matter is clear, but when it comes to children, there could be two or three. And how's that gonna look? That's my extra question. There are no more questions. Would anyone else like to speak? Thank you, Senator... [[Thank you.]] ...for answering questions and presenting a bill. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present his position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[We're waiting for him.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you for discussing this topic. The subject is complex, historical. Indeed, I share the voices that say that we have some informational noise in public space and that there has never been a proper explanation for the issue of deputy. But it was not only this issue in mining that was not explained, because the wording of the great privileges, of the group that had exercised special powers, was about And unfortunately, these G-cards, Sundays that weren't paid for, and in return, they gave permission to special stores... Well, unfortunately, this climate has moved into a new system. Never in the new system has the industry undertaken any presentation of its position, showing that these solutions that once took place... And they weren't a privilege either, they were more, in my mind, creating a system very, to put it mildly, humiliating workers who worked hard because they had to go to work on Sunday. We know what kind of system it was. Sunday in Silesia was always a special day, a day of celebration, going to a service, and this Sunday you had to go to work and then you could get a card and buy yourself a refrigerator, furniture. In other parts of the country, that was not the case. But we're lucky we're past that. However, some issues have passed along with the restructuring process. If you don't mind, I'm just gonna say two or three sentences, because this is not the time, not the debate. But notice that this industry became an industry that at that time had the function of an inflationary anchor. She couldn't raise the prices of her product, the product, the raw material, and the prices of everything went up. I do not claim that the decisions of then Italian managers of Poland were wrong, because I do not feel entitled to comment on it so. But this has triggered a difficult process, the consequences of which we have today. Notice that the mines have been scattered. They had to compete hard among themselves, there was a surplus of coal, a different system, different management rules, planning, and you couldn't raise the price for your goods because there was an administrative ban. This caused companies to be formed suddenly, those companies were concentrated. Until today, we finally have the Polish Mining Group, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, Węglokoks, Tauron Wyborcza, Bogdanka in Enea. So we've got it as far as I can tell, neatly organized. There were some restructuring processes related to fluctuations, the situation in the industry. Deputies were one of the components... As you remember, there used to be a social fund, housing was put aside, it wasn't paid on the salary, because it was building factory housing. And the deputat was one of those elements that was added as part of the salary that should be entered into the so-called. a belt or, like today, a PIT. It wasn't in that system. Retired persons acquired such rights that they were either in kind 2, 3 tonnes or then... Companies have proposed that they will pay out a certain amount after the calculation and it will not be in nature, but in cash. During the period when Polish mining had a difficult situation, when, as we all remember, the crisis began, in 2011, 2012, 2013, companies were not ready to face this crisis. Different decisions were made. And among others. It was decided that those pensioners who are from, as often said, an old wallet, which means they have low pensions... These are pensions of PLN 3,000, three thousand with something, and in these families women did not work because they were mothers who raised children, tried to raise these children with dignity, while the miner worked hard for the family. And all of a sudden it turns out that these pensions aren't big, and they've also been deprived of this right for a winter period, due entitlement to deputies in cash or in kind. And there's 235,000 of them. What are the right questions? Is there a social situation? She's different. Sometimes it's about widows, orphans, families who may not live in poverty, but they're also not crestes. We considered that, because of the principles of social relations, which were a little broken by the termination of these powers, this test should be undertaken. And as stated in the bill in the explanatory memorandum I often give it to you. We have tried to compensate. It's not 100% compensation, it's not a matter of creating justice, because we're just trying to get close to it. We have attempted to compensate for this compensation service. That's why it's called To try to give back what they had. Actually, there's a group of seniors, these are the early retirement pensioners. And that's why we recognized Because there was a mess, ladies and gentlemen, some had a notice, others were suspended, others were paid, others were later taken away, that we would also try to assess this in terms of budgetary opportunities. As the discussion has been going on since last year, we have had a dialogue with the social side; a citizens' project on how to regulate this issue was submitted last year. We also talked with the Ministry of Finance all the time about where we can compensate With real budgetary opportunities, although budget tensions will always be And as much as we can get close to compensating those people... The point is to try to make it up to them by giving them the right amount of debt. And to that, ladies and gentlemen, this is the kind of group that is being encouraged to pursue their rights. We have, ladies and gentlemen, several tens of thousands of lawsuit cases in this case. This creates a bad climate when it comes to attitude towards the state Whoever's in charge? And the state's position in society. There's also a bad climate around this industry. After all, we are all trying to build this industry a little bit as important for the Polish economy. Because she's important. There's also a number of these lawsuits that cause some confusion. That's why we thought this year... the finance minister said this: this year is a little easier for us, next years may be harder, so let's try this year, in the form of a one-off payment, to run this compensation benefit. He could have done so when he took a summary in August and September, when these new budgetary analyses appeared. That's why it's only now that this bill we've really been talking about since last year... Out of this we calculated how many people are entitled to $235,000. We thought that the amount of PLN 10,000 without these burdens would be, I do not want to say that it is worthy, but some logical amount that might try to compensate for this issue of deputies, which is why it appeared... And here I wouldn't want you senators to take it so that this group is kind of privileged, that someone is taking something away from someone, which means that in connection with the non-payment of tax on these 10,000 zlotys, we're taking something from other citizens who pay those taxes. You're right to have to pay taxes, pay danin, but we meant a little bit different ration. It is important not to charge these persons with additional operational activities. Because it is, as you know, a group of people who should be able to simply fill in the application, simple decisions. Why did we introduce this issue that was raised here? And here, quite rightly, the Senator rapporteur has mentioned this, and I will see why we have introduced it. That if someone collects this $10,000, then just give up these lawsuits. Because on the one hand, we are trying to make a big budget effort, and we are, and we must be aware of that too. But there's a point to it, as I say, to make this budget effort. So let's agree that we're creating a good climate around the industry, that we're trying to make up for how things start a little bit better in this industry... The point is to make these people feel that there are results in the industry, that in this budget it is better that they are finally noticed, although in this respect. That is why we would like those who filed these lawsuits to declare themselves: they want our offer, they get 10 grand, they have doubts, they have a right to choose, they can be in dispute. I think that's a pretty healthy attitude. And at the same time, You have already mentioned this to the senator, it would be a deep naivety if we allowed someone to receive compensation, and then they would still want to sue for a deputy. 'Cause how much money is being paid? We have a deputy in the system, he's paid by the Social Security Office. And there was a group, this is about the mining companies that joined at that time, in 2007, as if they had applied to the Court in 2006, the Court granted this group a right, and in 2007 on 6 July, as I recall, the law that brought them back to the system came into force. And ZUS pays once, for a deputy... So here's the ZUS withdrawal system. And we did not embrace this group because they are satisfied. And that 235,000, as I mentioned... Here we have a group that has really suffered damage as a result of this difficult industrial situation. But the voices are really raised, and I would also like to mention this to the senators here. That of 12 thousand people 6 thousand are employees of the Polish Mining Group, 4 thousand are employees of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company, of course in PGG we have employees of Katowice Holding, the Coal Company after the merger and 2 thousand people who have already passed by restructuring decisions to SRK. And now, ladies and gentlemen, what happened? Those workers, when they left for retirement, for pensions, didn't have that right anymore, and they didn't get a single payout in kind or in cash. They lost them as a result of the termination of collective labour agreements, because collective labour agreements regulate these issues within the establishments, not the law. They no longer received a deputy, so this group did not acquire these powers. That's what the senator was talking about, that jobs were being changed. That is why it is difficult for us to add this group to this law, because it does not fulfil the criterion of acquired rights. I share these voices, too, because they need to be taken into account, even if you are a benevolent mining industry, that the funds are actually coming from the budget. And we really aim to ensure that entities such as the Polish Górnicza Group, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, emerge from the crisis and should therefore have liquidity, should regulate their obligations in the future and one company, and the other, and the SRK, because this is what I was asked at the committee meeting, consider together with the social side, how much these entities will afford, whether they will be able to afford, in the case of those 12 000 people possibly satisfy these issues. We here, the Ministry of Energy, are in the position, and so is the project, that these issues should not be regulated by a law that burden the state budget, but should be taken on by the relevant actors, because they come out of a crisis, their financial situation begins to change, and they de facto had employees who had never acquired these powers. Because we would have a problem, ladies and gentlemen, if we had introduced this group of people into the bill. Suddenly other social groups, and rightly so, would start reminding us, showing us that we are far wrong, because they have also agreed to give some of their rights. That's why we only selected the group that had the authority and they were taken away. This is the philosophy of this bill. I would also like to ask, as I think, for such a healthy discussion around this law, because, notice, we are sometimes faced with a choice, a decision to make up for... I'm not here to tell you whether these statements were right or wrong, because that's not going to help us solve the problem. Let's try to solve some issues, build up the power of the state. If, under social rules, someone has been affected somewhere, even by the right legal decision, but it was a decision that was unfair, and we can somehow compensate for it, then let us make this attempt. And that's what I'd like to encourage all of us to create this climate around it. Notice that no one loses de facto because if you try to be fairer by your representatives or build the image of a solid state, I think you should bow down to it. As for the conclusions, because there was a proper concern here, we have this in mind in the ministry, too, so I'll say... The question is, can we make it? That's the right question. In fact, the venture is great, because it's 235,000 people, not much time, which is why it's going to be the number of points, but it's not going to be 1 person, it's going to be X people... Nevertheless, it is an undertaking. That's why I'm sure there'll be a strong information campaign. But when can we apply it? That's when the bill comes into force. We can't accept applications before, because we don't have that kind of authority. The question was, why won't there be an online proposal? Because we don't have an electronic signature, we can't verify it. It was the right question here about how orphans... It is simply that companies to which applications will be submitted will share equally. If there are three orphans, then on three, like four, on four. Simple procedure. It's because someone's entitled to a pension. Someone's got their father's pension assigned, and that's how it's gonna be calculated. So that's pretty much what we're getting at. Why these companies? Because that's where we have the documents, where we can quickly verify the applications submitted. So it will be very important to apply, these 21 days, so that we can make it. See, there's an appeal procedure. He's not random. We've given a very long period of time to appeal. Why? Because we're aware that someone might be in the hospital, someone might have left, someone living outside the voivodship. So there's this mode 12 months on appeal. If you read this bill hard, you'll notice that... we don't want to cause, I don't know, groups to move in time. We would like to carry out this procedure as soon as possible and put the issue of deputies in order in the system through this law. It is not only a matter of social justice, but also a matter of making the system clean. Bogdanka's got a deal and they're taking out deputies, and Tauron's got a deal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also organizing the system, which is also important. There are other groups. It is right that such arguments have been made here. Which have deputies, among others. PKP employees. I wouldn't want to oppose them... This isn't about some group opposing another. There are hard-working people out there, too. If such a system has been developed... Let us try to build this way, to act to make the state work and to make it fairer. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not written that if someone fails to submit this application within 21 days, it is no longer possible to submit it. And it's not a coincidence. We had to write deadlines because we had to define a framework, but our intention, our goal. I think that it is also for you to carry out this whole operation efficiently to start the compensation payment. This is a compensation benefit, which on the one hand, as I say, is supposed to bring some justice to which these persons I think you're right. They expect, and on the other hand it is to help build a system, because we are removing this issue from our position... for the future in the mining system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u138	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Mr. Senator Rulewski, Mr. Senator Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Poland is a democratic state of law. 2 constitutions. Why are you trying to get us to break at least four laws? First of all, financial law, which says that expenditure cannot be increased during the year without an appropriate law. You're gonna increase that spending in two months. Why do you urge us senators to break the Second Law on Donations, which says that it is possible to donate within 5 years, and this is about individuals and entities, amounts up to the sum of PLN 9 000 700? You exceed that amount, raises to the level of PLN 10,000. Why do you urge us to violate the Tax Act, which says that a citizen may not be subject to tax, if he has income less than about PLN 6,000 in a given year, as I remember? That's $10,000 right there. A citizen, in this case a pensioner or a mining pensioner, this amount exceeds by 4 000 and does not pay tax. Finally, why do you fail to take into account the comments of your colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who says that this law may not be effective in the event of European Union reservations because it constitutes State aid to the state institution? Because you're missing the obligation to pay a debt in the mine. It takes over this function in an unauthorized manner of the ZUS. This is the first case. Sir, does this one-off mean that if other mines in the future withdraw from a legal agreement, a collective agreement, which will result in a pensioner or a pensioner not getting... Then will you be making a special bill again? And the third thing, the question you don't have to answer. When choosing the procedure, so to speak, manual control, disregarding all principles, several rules, should not have been concluded with miners who believe, settlement is an acceptable form of law in Poland. Instead of offering a flat-rate solution and therefore not always a fair solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u140	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Can I go now?]] Yes, yes, now the Minister answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u141	Senator, I have to share my opinion that knowledge of deputies is indeed very weak in society. Because if the senator thinks the constitution has been broken, I'll answer that right away, Mr. Senator. I will ask the question: has not the principle of subsidiarity, social solidarity, which is in the Constitution, been violated when the companies signed a deputy agreement? [[Agreements have been made. Minister, the collective agreements...]] Mr. Senator! [[...are an agreement.]] Mr. Senator! Yes? Yes? And why did the board say it? They said it without looking... [[They have the right.]] [[Mr. Senator!]] ...without looking at the constitution... [[Now you answer the Minister.]] ...we have written that we are guided by our social, economic, political principle of social solidarity, the principle of subsidiarity. [[There's no such rule in the Constitution.]] [[All right.]] Mr. Senator, if you're pulling a constitutional violation out of this bill, you'll forgive me, but we're galactically different. But democracy makes it possible for us to be galactically different. That doesn't mean you can't even be nicely galactically different. It's so galactic. And I want to say this: Mr. Senator, no ZUS! After all, they will pay companies, not ZUS. That's one thing. So I don't have anything to answer, because I don't. ZUS exists so far... I may have been misunderstood, but you can be misunderstood, and that's not what I'm complaining about, just explaining that the U.S.S. doesn't take over anything. The U.S.S. has tasks and we don't take them away, we don't touch them, because it's in the system, it works. We're just trying to make up for human harm. And I will say, Mr. Senator, that I cannot imagine how you can try to satisfy or somehow compensate for human harm and break the Polish constitution. This is really a great finesse in interpretation. What kind of donations are we talking about, Senator? Compensation provision. It's a compensation benefit. [[What's this?]] Exactly, Mr. Senator, this is a compensation benefit, this is not a donation! [[Income, income.]] Mr. Senator, the compensation has been described and... I do not know the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I would like to know them, which questions... which states that this law violates the issue of public aid. It's okay. She's so constructed... 'Cause if we started restoring deputies to those who use the restructuring bill, we'd have a problem. That's why the 12,000 I mentioned, even though they're right. You have to consider them as a victim group, and that doesn't apply. We don't put it into the bill because it's a threat. So that I share that, but not for this group. Not for this group. And now... You're trying to get us to make a deal. Does this mean that those who have gone to court are to receive a settlement with us and be deputized, and those who humbly have decided to break the principle of social life by giving them notice are not to be covered? [[No, it's okay. The deal doesn't bother you.]] Mr. Senator, but if you're telling me that I'm only supposed to deal with those who think, which is those who are more dynamic, have people in the family who have advised them... And those who humbly accepted, thinking, well, maybe you'll look at me someday... we'll never see them again? I think that would be unfair. That's why we have this whole group covered by the bill. And I will say this: this law is not the most perfect, and I humbly accept it, I am aware of it. I, Senator, am aware that this is an attempt to compensate. Which is why I think that the discussion around this problem, whether I present it or the Ministry of Energy... This is such a delicate and sensitive subject that even we in our dispute would have to talk nicely about it so that these people wouldn't be offended. Because at some point, the historical state of these people has hindered them by taking away what is rightfully theirs. That's why, Senator... I understand that in our political dispute you are talking about the Constitution, but in your heart, I think you are in favour of compensating for injustice in public space. Thank you very much. [[About the budget...]] Mr. Senator... [[Is it allowed to take money that isn't there?]] Oh, that's a good point. Well, you're right about that. At present, the relevant law is already being launched by the Minister of Finance. There will be a revision of the budget law, this was announced by the Minister of Finance. The government has adopted this law as if in a circular way, knowing that work on the budget is being carried out in parallel. If it weren't for this work, if it were an empty bill, you'd be right, because we wouldn't have any way of triggering this kind of commitment. But it is not that I urge you to break anything, because the declaration of the Minister of Finance, which was made publicly, makes him now have to prepare a budget bill in parallel. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that if we submitted this law together with the budget law, this law would enter into force on 15 November, maybe 10 November. Look at the time margin we have for examining applications. That is why we felt that this law should come into force more quickly. We can already accept these proposals, verify them, and in the meantime budget resources will be mobilised for businesses. There is this declaration, the public, the government declaration of Prime Minister Morawiecki, and that is why this bill was adopted and passed to the Parliament, first in the Seym and today in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u142	Thank you, Minister. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Has the government, when working on this law, also analysed that other working and social environments may also feel that they have been treated in some way worse, that they have lost all kinds of benefits or privileges, and that, by proceeding with this law, we also create such a climate that everyone will be able to request that he also be compensated for the various losses suffered by their employers? This is a very serious matter and it seems to me that even when you started working on this law, there was not yet such an atmosphere of expectation that different environments would want more benefits. As the Minister is well aware, in previous years, we have taken decisions limiting expenditure due to the situation of the state budget, e.g. for salaries for administrative staff, for health workers. For years in the budget, even in the around budget bill adopted every year, we have applied the principle of freezing wages. These people waited patiently and talked about frozen wages: we do not fully accept it, but we understand the difficult situation. And now we're just one professional group living in one region, giving such a huge compensation. It may not be a miracle individually, but for a lot of thousands it's a big amount. It would probably be a lot for many, many families in Poland. And now they receive this benefit only the chosen. Isn't that going to raise expectations, according to the government? The next group will say this: if they got miners, why can't they get officials, doctors, health professionals? Today we are in conflict with health care. I don't want to pick it up here, but this problem is clearly occurring. Did the state as a government analyze this situation? Aren't you afraid that when we start working on the budget, on amending the budget, these expectations will be so powerful that we will have to stop working at all on amending the budget law? Someone from the senators here said we had our first surplus in the budget. We don't have any budget surplus. No, we don't. We may have good budget receipts, but we're still in debt. We're taking a loan on the market just to pay off our liabilities. So shouldn't we stop it? Because it really leads to a bad situation. I can give you many examples. Let's take the inhabitants of Słupska. They were told: if you agree to an American base near Słupsk, almost in the city itself, you will receive compensation in the form of various things. And such compensation was to be the construction of the Kashubian route from the Tricity ring road to Koszalin. Today the government says: we don't give it up, we stopped this investment because we don't have the money. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, Why is such a choice made that some environments receive support and others who feel hurt, removed and, so to speak, have less opportunities to articulate their expectations, left on the side? It's a division of society. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u144	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u145	Mr. Senator, I know that was a question asked for other groups as well. But I'd really like to find another retirement group that's been taken from retirement money. Well, find me a group of pensioners in Poland who have been deprived of their pensions. Because that's the problem, that's the problem! We're not talking about employees, we're talking about pensioners who have a pension component, but because of the crisis, they've been deprived of that part of their pension amount. There is no such group! And the fact that she mostly lives in Silesia is their problem? Do they have to be treated worse in Poland? [[But you just said that...]] Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator, please don't pull that thesis. That's not true. Mr. Senator... [[And the fishermen, for instance?]] Mr. Senator, you're talking about professional groups. But do you understand that I am talking about pensioners, people who no longer work and cannot change their status? Show me another group of retirees and pensioners who have been taken away part of their pension for working in some profession! [[Don't scream!]] I'm sorry. Excuse me. [[No, ladies and gentlemen, I'm driving...]] Thank you very much. [['Cause I'm gonna have to...]] But... I mean, I don't lecture anybody, I don't lecture... [[I'm gonna call it a night. No, no, no, please, I'm gonna have to adjourn.]] That's why I'd like you to understand... I know that this is a debate, that there is opposition and they are ruling, but... Darlings, there really isn't another group that is retired, has earned some resources, these resources worked out, but suddenly there is a social crisis and we say, no, you won't have $2.5,000 anymore, from tomorrow you'll have $1,000 800. When did you take something from the retirees and the rencistoms? It's the only group like this. So you can't compare them to fishermen, builders, because you're hurting these people. [[Which ones?]] That's not sharing. That's not sharing. And, ladies and gentlemen, instead of telling you, you're finally doing something our presidents couldn't handle in the crisis. And it's a good thing that you're finally doing this because we've hurt these people, and you're trying to say that this group is profiting at the expense of others. [[No, we don't say that.]] And go on. Didn't you notice that the actors also received something? Didn't you notice that we bought the paintings anyway... Ladies and gentlemen, we have a better budgetary situation now. But that doesn't mean she's perfect, I share... [[Far, far from it...]] But, Mr. Senator, I don't argue with that. But we have a better situation, even better than the plan. Whatever you say, yes, sir. Well, we're not gonna lie to the numbers. [[But still on credit...]] We're better off. So when are we supposed to compensate people who are hurt, like not when they're better? The Bible's principle is that fat years buy out skinny. And look at you... I don't argue with decisions that messed up. I don't want to talk about it. Well, it happened. But I'm asking you... because this is a group that every day in one establishment, in the other, in the third... Ladies and gentlemen, imagine there's a block. Imagine... Well, you can trivialize like some of you who are laughing at it now. But imagine that you are in the same apartment block and here one on the floor worked in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa in the mine, the other worked in the Coal Company, was taken from him, was not taken from him, and then he was taken from him in a year's time... And they did the same thing. And you think that was fair? That you should have done that? I think it's time to say it was wrong. But, thank God, there's a government that wants to fix it. It could be better, but it's still good that they took care of it. And you guys are kind of trying to put a wedge in a weird way: because the budget, because the debt... Ladies and gentlemen, the state is strong when it sees people who are hurt and supports the weak. This is the principle of social solidarity and subsidiarity, and I am very close to it, and I think you are, too. Political dispute should have no meaning here. Those people who have been hurt, no matter why, are important, and they need to be corrected. And we're trying to do it today... we're not fixing it, but we're trying to fix it. And I would very much ask that we not have this discussion, because these people will suddenly feel so that, although they deserve it, they will have a hangover that whatever they get from the state. And I think it's the first time in my life and the last. because we can suddenly do something good in the Polish country, and through political conflicts we cannot see that they deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u146	Thank you, Minister. [[You can still...]] No. [[No?]] Dismissed until 5:00 p.m. So, Minister, we'll still be expecting you here. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Okay, thank you.]] Thank you. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 06 to 17 minutes 03]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u147	Recess extended until 17.10. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 03 to 17 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the second agenda: the act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. I would like to remind you that before the break in the session, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, answered the senators' questions. We continue to ask questions to the Minister. Minister, I would like to invite you to the floor here, because there will certainly be many more questions for the Minister. You will be the first to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I fully identify myself with meaning and with the need to adopt such a law, but as usually happens, only later, during the implementation of the legislation, problems arise. And these problems are generally due to certain legislative shortcomings related to procedures, so to speak. That is why I have a few specific questions about the issues that I will grant you, Minister. I was concerned about the contents of the bill. The first point concerns the payment of compensation to persons who, I would call it, inherit the entitlement to this compensation, is Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3. She is paid in equal parts, but in order to determine these equal parts, you need to know how many people inherit. And how would the paying company know that? The U.S.S.A. knows that. But how would the company know that? It will be implemented, I understand, on the basis of a statement, only that such a point in this declaration... i.e. There is no pattern of this statement. This is not in either the model application or the model declaration. Next line. The paying company applies to the mining company as if asking for confirmation of the fact that this coal was granted. What if that bet is gone? This must be clearly defined to whom such a person is to turn. 'Cause if that bet isn't there, somewhere these permissions are kind of written down, they should be written down. Another issue, too disturbing. There are very short deadlines, for example. the answer to the question by the paying company is only 3 days, and the answer is 7 days. Those deadlines may not be kept, but never mind... But that's not there, there's no time limit for payment by the paying company. I understand that this should be achieved when the funds are in place and when all these issues concerning these proposals will be settled, but there is not even an indicative deadline. The fourth point concerns Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4. This claim is due to expire after 12 months. Knowing our jurisdiction and considering what might happen along the way... Well, there could be situations like that. a given man will eventually receive the right to this claim after some appeals and court proceedings after, suppose, 15 months and he will be dissatisfied, because physically he will have, assume, sentence, but claims He won't be able to make it happen. So the question is, what's the 12-month deadline anyway? After all, it will still depend on the efficiency of an executive system. This is supposed to be, I understand, done this year, because for example. for 2018 there is no allocated amount, it is only for 2017. [[Mr. Senator, thank you...]] These are specific questions concerning the procedure, a few moments indicated by me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u149	Good. Thank you very much. These were very lengthy questions. Mr. Minister, three questions... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Maybe I could answer these detailed questions right away if your marshal would allow.]] The detailed ones right away. Okay, that's especially after a few of your senator's questions. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! As far as 12 months are concerned, this is about appeal, and it does not apply to the court. That's why we set a deadline of 12 months, because if someone doesn't make it or misses it for some reason, we give 12 months for cancellations, we give it all next year. And if anybody doesn't take advantage of it, it's a court case, and then it's kind of out of the question. As far as the situation is concerned, when the subject disappears, he's the legal successor who has the documents... Surely the knowledge of who is the legal successor of a given mine and has documents is in the company, in the Polish Mining Group or in Jastrzębska Węglowa Company... This will be especially the case for the Polish Mining Group. So here they know where the documents are and who to turn to is on the entrepreneur's side. Therefore, these payments are on the entrepreneur's side and this verification takes a short time. They've already given us information, which is why we have this number of 235,000, and that's why we know exactly where these people are located. These people used deputies, they were already handled by companies, and that's why we have that knowledge. And in general, we want to make payments by the end of this year. These periods are therefore short, 21 days to submit an application, a short period of examination. The point is, we can do the whole operation this year. This is related, among others. with the budgeting of the entire project. And knowing that there could be different cases, we extended the appeal period to 12 months. As for those who inherit, they must bring us information about the pension from the Social Security Office, because when they have a pension, they are included in this pension, they automatically inherit. We will also draw knowledge from these statements and documents which they will join if they are entitled to inherit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u151	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Infantry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u152	Thank you very much. Minister, let me ask you this question again, which I have asked the Senator of the rapporteur. I'm talking about how to implement the notification, whether this system will be efficient. As I mentioned, it's almost 250,000 people and we have a total of 15 working days. Assuming that there would be up to 100 points that could accomplish this, that's 170 per point, so it actually goes out 3 minutes per person. That's where my initial question came from. Well, maybe... But you've already mentioned that online this can't go on. Wouldn't that be a good extension? Or maybe you could introduce some kind of modification of the reporting system, e.g. increase in admission points? And another one of my... That's more like a statement. The Minister allowed himself here to signal that the entire Platform was against these compensations and repairing the harm that the Polish state has done in the past. Well, I'd like to signal that the vote in the Sejm seems to indicate something else. The platform voted in favour, and even more, wants to extend the catalogue of persons entitled to employees of mining companies related to mining works companies. Therefore, I will make an appropriate amendment with Senator Bear on this issue to extend it, also to extend this deadline and to allow not only a one-off payment, but also for differentiation to be possible and if someone does not want this one-off payment to continue to be possible to download it from the Social Security Office. So much for a statement. I would ask for an answer on how to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u154	Minister, the cost of these compensations will be about PLN 2.5 billion, that is how it is estimated. We're still getting information that there are some costs of coal extraction that aren't mine costs and aren't included in the price of coal. The Polish Górnicza Group, estimates for the implementation of the coal-based energy programme are PLN 154 billion by 2030, i.e. PLN 11 billion per year, several billion per year for the drainage of closed mines, hidden costs in energy costs, i.e. coal power plants costs. Can the Minister say how many costs, which are not borne by mines and are not included in coal prices, are borne by the Polish state, i.e. de facto Polish citizen, per year or per tonne of coal mined?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u155	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome. [[No, I didn't sign up.]] Senator Kleina, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This payment will be made from the state budget and this amount, I understand, will be included in the state budget again this year. If we fail to make these payments to all people during this time, then what will be the situation? What's gonna happen to that solution? And the other thing. As these are payments from the state budget, this will be a subsidy for this purpose. Well, according to the rules that have been in force so far, these benefits have been borne by employers and it is the employer who paid to these people, later pensioners, to die a coal debt. But shouldn't it be said that this debt will continue to be paid by companies as it was and not by the state budget? And wait for these few months, give it time to take place from next year, systematically, slowly, without such nervousness? All the more so because we see that mining companies are coming out of collapse and crisis and are getting better results, so they could simply, using their income, gradually meet these obligations, which are also the result of the Court's ruling.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u157	Thank you, Senator. Senator Czesław Ryszka, and we'll ask the Minister for an answer. [[Me now?]] Yes, Mr. Senator, you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. You don't have to answer them very carefully, but I do care... for 235,000 people entitled to this compensation. And it happened in different mining plants. Could you say, so numerically, in general, what bets? These miners came, what was the situation of those mining plants then, and what is today? Was it worth it to say that these legal and organisational changes were carried out to achieve, say, a purpose? Isn't PGG gonna make some kind of situation, debt, etc. that there's gonna be another group that doesn't get something because it's gonna be taken away? And the second question is that I don't have to turn myself in anymore... I asked this question: what about the miners who are on mining leave? This problem will end... well, it's four years old, which means it's not until 2022 that the last one will retire. Do they have a right to this compensation? And they've already taken a coal debt, they've only gone on mining leave to take advantage of this opportunity, because now these changes in employment in companies have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u159	Thank you. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u160	Maybe I'll start with Senator Czesław Ryszka's questions. As far as those who are on mining leave are concerned, they still have employee status, only enjoy the right to early mining leave, as the name suggests, therefore they are treated as workers. As far as employees are concerned, in fact in the Polish Mining Group there is a deputy related to payouts, as you are an employee. But due to the termination of collective agreements and changes that took place in Katowice Holding Węglowy and Jastrzębska Spółka, and in the Polish Mining Group, people who retire, ba, pension, no longer receive this deputy. It's something that happened with the decisions to give up deputies to people who were retired. It happened at the same time. And those who leave will not receive, and those who are no longer receive. And that's where she came from. We're getting this group, of which the senators are right... [[This is the form of the annex I'm sure...]] This is the 12,000 people we have in PGG, in Jastrzębska and in SRK. In this group of workers there are no mining holidays, because they still have employee status today. And they actually will not be entitled to a deputy after these 4 years, because this supplement or this component of remuneration in the form of We're running out of deputies. He's no longer functioning in mining space. That is why we have taken up this challenge, as I mentioned, to try to regulate it legally once, because we are legally tidying up the issue of deputies when it comes to mining. As regards the burden on individual companies I just asked the director for information. It looks like this: in the Coal Company for 2014 the value of the benefit is 2 billion... almost 149 thousand people, this is the Coal Company... If we tried to restore the Coal Company's debt, not through our one-off payment, it would be 1 billion 486 million in 2014. The Coal Company. 378 million, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa.. 391 million, Kazimierz-Juliusz....over 34 million. Well, Bogdanka, I know there's been an agreement. That's less than 27.6. Tauron Extraction 35th. And now, if we went back to not 10 grand's paycheck, and those people came in. And this is a correlation with Senator Kleina's question. In the system which was introduced by the 2007 Act concerning PRG employees, where the Court ordered honouring... Because they united, formed an association, challenged the resignation of deputies. So we'd have to pay 400 million a year with the ZUS. This would be the amount, if not to pay it once, but actually it is PLN 1 500,1600 per tonne of coal, because this is how it is converted every year... These values remained on the shoulders of the Coal Company, Katowice Coal Holding, because such mines are employees, and Jastrzębska Coal Company. The biggest loads, as we can see, are on the side of the Coal Company and the Polish Mining Group, because there are the largest number of mines and mines from which retired people left. In Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa we did not have such a phenomenon, because there are also fewer people employed. As for the fact that someone won't make it in time, this is the appeal mode, Mr. Senator. He predicts that next year, if someone does not actually make it for reasons like this and not for others, and if they justify it to us, as I mentioned before the break or the illness or the trip or the fact that they did not get the information, because such things could happen, then we will try for 12 months next year... Well, we're not gonna try so much as we're just gonna consider appeals so that the maximum number of people who want to benefit from compensation can benefit from it. Hence, we do not assume that we may not be in time to the detriment of the entitled. At this point in time, this appeal shall be granted. And if it turns out that for some organizational reason, what we assume would happen, there would be a slip, then this clause for the next months will allow us to still be able to be entitled... Because the most important thing is that a person is entitled, i.e. a retired person, a pensioner, a widower, a widower, an orphan, who has the authority of these periods of suspension of notice to a deputy. As for what you asked Senator Wczyl about the cost of energy, coal, I would like to say that there are no additional hidden costs in the price of energy, in the price of coal, because today we have created a situation such that companies are starting to operate marketly. And these charges, which today are on the company side, are also the result of coal mining costs, and these costs are included in the price of coal. I must say that the functioning of the Polish Mining Group... I think we'll be tempted to do that at the end of the year. Had it not been for the Polish Mining Group, our energy companies would have incurred several hundred million additional costs of purchasing raw materials in the form of hard coal, because coal prices outside Poland are significantly higher than those we have in Poland. However, I understand that there are certain costs involved in the operation of the mining sector at all. This applies not only to the hard coal sector but also to the brown coal sector, but also to the salt mine. It's tied up. It's in every country anyway. Except that the effects of mining activity, which are the effects of continuous, dehydration type or possibly certain remediation processes... Because after extracting the raw material It's about brown coal, and when it comes to other branches, it's about salt mines. There are water reservoirs that can later serve as quite attractive tourist and recreational facilities in the area. We know such an example. For example, Machaw, where such a program is being implemented. Hence, these costs are not so much related to the price of coal mining at present as to subsequent issues related to the landscape, with respect to revitalization. It's the same as in the construction of roads. All of a sudden these roads are operated, they're repaired, there's some overpasses being built... This is kind of part of the country's economic policy. Of course, we must note that we have now supported our raw material sector, but this is not an event on a European or global scale, this restructuring programme and the agreement that the Company for the Restructuring of Mine, which is the addressee of the bill, which you also voted on in 2015. You have set aside funds to ensure that these parts of the mining assets or mines that we move to SRK... to secure and prepare these technical parts of the mines in some way from public funds. It was so that they could return in an orderly manner to development. And we can actually talk here about the costs that the state budget incurs. We see this not only in the context of hard coal, but in general in the context of raw materials policy. That's what happens in every country, because that's the branch of the economy. Therefore, the idea is, if we really want to extract raw materials, that they must have this strategic element. And that's why hard coal has a strategic element for us in the energy space. We therefore bear this restructuring effort. The point is that we can have some influence on Poland's energy policy and energy sovereignty. About Senator Infantry's question... Indeed, we have some respect here for the deadlines that appear, because this is a big undertaking and a short period of time. But just because there are points, Mr. Senator, doesn't mean there's gonna be one person at a given point. It will be that there will be some people serving at a given point. So we have to multiply some times. We're aware that if we had only one person at a point, it's the very idea of an undertaking... If we count how many people have to be at the point, submit an application, how many minutes it takes to at least put a stamp on it, check with the I.D. that it's that person... So we'd actually know by now that we're not gonna make it. Hence, these points will not be one-person points or, I would say, single-station points. There's gonna be more of these jobs. We also want to run the phone lines. There you will be able to ask questions and consult. We want to launch a huge information campaign, especially in the communities of the Silesian Voivodeship, in local media. There would be requests to be downloaded as well as statements. The point is to shorten the period of application. In fact, it would be great if we could use the Internet to submit an application, but we do not have an electronic signature and we are not able to verify the request transmitted electronically. This could cause a mess with this number of people. That's why we have to try to run these cases in a traditional way. I would also like to tell you that, as with you as parliamentarians, Because as far as I know, people from different parts of Poland are already talking to you. They'll be in contact... We will send information to each of you, not so that you can deliver us, just so that when the voters turn to you... you will have information that you can give us. The point is, anybody can make a phone call. We will also want to tell you where the inhabitants of any part of Poland will be able to turn. The idea is to make these requests come to us as soon as possible so that we can assess them and start the payments as soon as possible. What I'm trying to say is that we're also talking to the Post Office. We will want to use the services of the Post Office when it comes to the transmission of information, but also the transfers or even the sending of a request to us by post.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u161	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Gawada. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u162	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm just briefly... Because you're Senator Rulewski, who said there's no record in the constitution on the law of certain justice. It is already in the preamble that a law is based on respect for freedom and justice, the cooperation of authorities, social dialogue and the principle of subsidiarity, which strengthens the powers of citizens and their communities. That's all, Minister. Because it was an unfair charge... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you, Senator. Thank you.]] ...from the senator's side. And as for the merit of this bill, Minister, we discussed it at the committee meeting. Indeed, this law is very difficult, because this process of termination of contracts took place in different companies during different periods. I have a question: how will the Ministry and companies approach this group, which Senator Ryszka asked about, to this group about 12 thousand employees, in which the termination of the change in the terms of the employment contract was effective? Minister, I'd like to know if And if so, how do you do that? The Ministry, in agreement with the companies, intends to address the problem of this group of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u164	Minister, tell me if other professional groups have deputies or something like deputies. I'm asking, for example. about employees of companies that were created after the division of the Polish National Railways. I know that there was a coal depot there. I also mean energy companies, because I know that in energy companies employees have the ability to buy energy at a lower price. I don't think it's called a deputy, but it's in the same form. Are there any other areas in which this deputy, this remnant, so to speak, socialism, is functioning? If you can't answer, I'll ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u165	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[If there isn't, I have another one.]] Please, Mr. Marshal, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal, it's a little off the subject of this bill. The Minister is a specialist and therefore I have this question: what happens that there is no Polish coal? After all, a few years ago this coal was on the heaps, there was a problem with the sale of coal, and at the moment there is no Polish coal and there is bought American coal, probably Russian coal. Even the coal from Donbass has crossed the border. What happened? Do the mines produce less, or do the demand of the economy that is growing so much that this Polish coal is not enough? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Klein, you're welcome. And I think we're gonna finish the questions with the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask how many lawsuits are currently being brought against these people, those pensioners who have lost their right to deputies. How many of these trials are there right now? And one more question. At the moment, the profitability of the mine has actually improved. Is this improvement in profitability due to a rather significant increase in coal prices compared to previous years, or is this the result of these restructuring measures undertaken in recent years? How about both? Probably.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u169	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u170	Maybe I'll start with Senator Gadawa's first question about this group of 12,000 people. I think we've been analyzing it in the ministry. We have indeed wondered whether there is going to be a legal solution and whether it is possible to introduce this group into the law, abstracting from whether the Minister of Finance would bless this in terms of funding. First, we wanted to think about it from the legal side. We had a problem because it would open this bill to other groups that didn't fit into our definition. Like I said, we're dealing with a bunch of retired and retired people who had the authority to lose them all of a sudden, and here are the employees. We consulted with the presidents of the financial condition of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and the Polish Mining Group, because this mainly concerns these two entities. The Company for Restructuring of Mine is 2,000... It's some size, but it's mostly about the Polish Mining Group, where we have 6,000 people. I think this topic will definitely return in conversations with the social side when we sum up the first six months of next year. As far as the financial situation is concerned, we will definitely be on the positive side of the Polish Mining Group. It's not gonna be $8 million for the first six months, it's just... Although a negative was planned for the first six months, minus 176 million in the business plan we put it this way. He was accepted by the financial institutions and we were accepted in Brussels too, seeing the starting point. The situation has improved and the outcome at the end of the year will be much better, but not so that this problem can be considered this year. I think we will be able to consider next year whether the Polish Mining Group will be able to sign It may be one-off, maybe spread over time. It's so... I would not like to make a declaration today because we do not have this analysis next year. It would be crucial that we do not cause Poland's Górnicza Group to lose its investment dynamics by accepting certain appropriate social burdens. This is crucial to us. The point is, first of all, let's get away with it. So that I think, Mr. Senator, that... we talked about this at the committee meeting with the social side and the social side knows that this topic should be considered in this broader aspect... mid-year time. Mr. Marshal, ask for other groups. I'm confirming that maybe not so much deputies as... The Deputy is at the PKP, we know that. Not so much a deputy as such a strengthening of salary, which is such an incentive, we have in the energy industry, being an employee in energy gives some bonuses. I'm not confirming... Although lately, in the caucus talk, I've been told that this is something that pilots have. I do not want to talk about these groups and brand them, because this is the result of a certain industry policy. That's right, because it encourages you to take an interest in this profession. It is also about the need for the profession to have its rank. In various competitions they may perform. I'll see if I can get that information to your marshal in any other competition. About Polish coal... [[Minister, and how high. Okay? I heard the PKP was shut down, but I don't know...]] Okay, okay. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the thing about... That also correlates with Senator Kleina's questions. Price increase I'll talk about the trials in a minute. It's cost-effective. I must tell you that we have the following phenomenon. We need to speed up the investment plan we have. Investment outlays in the Polish Mining Group in the years 2017 and 2020 are planned for 7 billion 200 million. To show a certain comparison, I'm going to say that in similar periods of four years, five years, these were significantly less outlays. This caused that we definitely went down in terms of the number of walls in mines entering the Polish Mining Group, and this in turn caused that on the basis of the offer of mines, which are part of the Polish Mining Group, we went down by 5.6 million tons. Although we compare mining this year with mining in 2015... It's comparable, it's practically the same. However, it is lower than in 2016. We will probably have a lower production in the Polish Mining Group, at the level of 1 million... This, however, is not the reason for this shortage which appeared on the market, if he is indeed. Notice that there has been a lot of information about such nervousness in terms of demand and supply of coal for two or three years. In 2016, we had information about a huge surplus of coal on the market. We know today that 5.8 million tons of coal in coal company was true. However, 20 million tons, which lay on other bollocks, were no longer true. Because we know that at the moment when we made an intervention purchase by the reserve agency we talked about here in connection with the restructuring bill, it turned out that this coal was no longer in excess. So something here in this reporting and in these activities, when it comes to dealers who sold coal on the Polish market, and in the media marketing information was not consistent. That's how we know there was no such surplus on the market. However, it's probably our assessment today, but we're trying to balance it with the fact that there's actually a demand for more coal, but probably from those who had carbon from the outside. Because suddenly it turned out that the price of coal from the outside is higher than the one from the country, and all of a sudden they placed orders with the Polish Mining Group, because the costs of downloading raw materials from the outside would cause them to have higher costs of acquiring this coal and bringing it to the Polish market. This is probably the reason why there was a much greater demand for coal than in 2016. Therefore, this information, that coal is affected by one or another, is not entirely precise today, because, as far as imports of coal are concerned, we know, for example, that the routes for transporting raw materials from beyond the eastern border are because of, among other things,. the maneuvers were blocked by the transfer of troops, hence it was impossible at the same time as last year to bring so much raw material to Poland. We also have an impression. And here I kind of share my thoughts with you. Some hoped that they would be able to buy cheaper coal when prices started to grow in May, June, July and the Polish Mining Group started to offer orders. Because as the contracted orders came in, suddenly it turned out that coal from the eastern markets would not, on the contrary, this price started to rise. And suddenly in a short time additional orders were placed for the Polish Mining Group. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we don't have that much difference in extracting. Besides, I'm worried about the market information itself, that we find that there's a shortage there. I don't know if there's a shortage there. Therefore, I, if I may say this to you here, would also like to ask... If you could direct it to the sales department in the Polish Mining Group, say where is the coal shortage... Because we would really like to diagnose where the Polish Górnicza Group has warehouses and where... 'Cause we've got coal in the stacks. I want to tell you that there is such a paradox that we see that we do not care about stains, because this information reaches us, among others. by parliamentarians, but as we ask people who are involved in the landfills of the Polish Mining Group, they manage them, it turns out that coal in our warehouses we have. This is how we know that it is not in those assemblies which were not contracted in the Polish Mining Group. Therefore, I will be honest with you that we have a bit of circular information which does not exactly agree with the analytical information that we are trying to obtain in the Polish Mining Group. But that doesn't mean there's no problem, which I also want to say. So that I will be grateful, as you, being from different parts of Poland, you will report in which areas this real deficiency actually occurs so that we can find out what it really is. Because I have to say this to you: we also have the impression that some people, by informing by various kinds of journals, kind of want to influence the price of the raw material that we offer on the market. Well, if there's a lot of stuff, it's known that the price has to be lower, and when it's created so much atmosphere that it doesn't exist, it's known that someone can conquer the price. And it creates an atmosphere that you should already buy coal at any price, because it won't be there in a month, two months. In my opinion, there won't be such a great shortage. The problem when it comes to professional energy, supplies, contracts and size, we've got it covered. Only now must we diagnose the problem of individual consumers. It is also true, Dear Senators, and we must be aware that we have withdrawn certain carbon grades from the Polish market as a result of smog resolutions of local governments in the south, Małopolska and Silesia. And that's what caused the parameterization of coal, which can be traded, unfortunately... I do not know whether it happened accidentally or as a result of reflections, but it pushed out coal, which we have in our offer in the Polish Mining Group. So unfortunately, but these local governments caused that 2 million tonnes of coal with different parameters must be delivered to the Polish market, because we in the Polish Mining Group of such coal, in such a species, such peas, with such parameters, unfortunately do not have. We're wondering how we'd be able to produce this species at home, but we have a problem with that. So this also caused our domestic offer to fail to meet the ecological parameters. So, in good faith, no transition period was given here, but a gap of 2 million tonnes was caused before winter. We were born. As far as the number of trials is concerned, we have a couple dozen, as I recall... [[Director of the Mining Department at the Ministry of Energy Anna Margis: About a thousand.]] How much? [[Director of the Mining Department at the Ministry of Energy Anna Margis: About a thousand.]] There are about a thousand requests in court for these claims that we are trying to settle in the bill. We have also noticed a phenomenon such as the organisation of a bit of law firms, advising them to be able to perform in these matters. Therefore, we in the Act have made such an alternative that if someone wants to benefit from the benefit, they will not continue to claim the lost benefit of the deputat. As for... Mr. Marshal, an interesting thing you've caused, I mean. The Donbass issue. I will say this: we were asked in the ministry and we were amazed that someone had such knowledge about these difficult areas. I think that the other institutions of the state will analyze this, because we in the ministry, having an analysis from the Industrial Development Agency, did not have that kind of information. Besides, it is difficult for us to come up with some details about when this can happen, because we do not have the tools for it. As far as the amount of carbon from the outside is concerned, the peas I mentioned actually appeared, and we cannot fill this gap so that there is indeed a difference. But she's not that significant compared to the carbon flow last year, she's still in comparable sizes. Therefore, it is very important for us to know where this information is from about such a luce in Polish coal, because so much from the outside does not affect. We have mining in the same size as last year. Because the shortage is less than one million tonnes. And that, too, is a matter for us to decide how we're going to balance the year. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u171	All right, Minister, when are you balancing traffic? Don't you have current information on how many mines or how many companies are mining? After all, this is accurate reporting: they report it, there are accurate reports either monthly or every six months. And there is also accurate reporting on border control. Well, maybe one car can sneak left or right somewhere, but at the border, you control where it affects, how much carbon it affects. So I... There should be clear information here, or in a relationship... Because you were suggesting that this causes speculation. And if there's speculation, then... But this is where the balance sheet has to be made first. And if there's speculation, it's a matter of whose speculation? Are the mines speculating? Is that what brokers speculate? If there's speculation, it's probably middlemen. But I think the ministry should be more active in this area. They're, as you say... If there's coal on the line, you have to put that coal on the market, make a bid or tender... I don't know how this coal is sold. Individual farmers are not sold. Whether it's sold, but in small quantities. As I understand it, this Donbass coal is difficult to fish, because it probably entered as Russian coal. Russian, for sure. And only on the basis of information from the Ukrainian service or... our services can recognize it. I understand you can't have that kind of information. Because, like I said, this coal definitely came here as Russian coal. Minister, I don't want to put too much pressure on you, but I was expecting an accurate balance sheet: how much we produce, how much we import. As I understand it, the difference between demand and production is 1 million tons, right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: At the end of the year.]] Yeah, at the end of the year. Last year? Did... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: versus last year.]] So a million... I see. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: This can be at the end of the year.]] At the end of the year. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: It may be, but it doesn't have to be. But maybe.]] But he doesn't have to. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Yes. There may be 800,000, 700,000... but, Mr. Marshal...]] Don't you have current statistics?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u172	We do, Mr. Marshal. Maybe I wasn't precise. We have every month, growing up, individually... Every species, every mine... That's what we have when it comes to reporting... undisputedly when it comes to mines. We know how much energy... Because it's up to us. But notice that we have a whole district heating resource that is not in the hands of the Treasury. It's a self-government. Now we're taking over EDF. They were entities, not even national ones, which in some way not so much by rail, but also by sea could buy coal. They also had coal purchased from previous years, which did not necessarily have to be sold in a given year, he could move on to the next year. Therefore, we do not have so much problems with how many orders we have in Poland Mining Group I said, what was contracted... We don't have a problem with how much we get, how much we get. That's not the problem. And that's where the marshal's right if we didn't have it by overseeing this sector, that would be a little ridiculous. But why am I surprised? It's not that I'm surprised we're not conducting analytics, it's that we're not okay. 'Cause, like, coal before... It's like there's a little more out-of-the-line contract than we know. Because we know how much we extract, we have orders, and then we find out from different directions that there's some drama that we don't deliver. And we don't know what that means. 'Cause we know... we've got energy contracts, heating, we've already got pretty much contracted district heating. But there's an area... And we also don't know if it's actually the result of the fact that there's no carbon, or if someone is speculating on the end-user line... to raise the price so that people who have the impression that there will be no coal buy at a price higher than the one they should actually buy. And here, Mr. Marshal, we can even introduce you... We also know how much came in, really, how much came in. And this difference compared to last year is not so significant that it entered more. More came in, it's true, but it's not $2 million or $3 million, that's the level of $700,000, $600,000 more than it was in a similar period last year. So that here, speaking of my doubts... They do not result from the fact that we do not keep monthly reports and then grow, but from the fact that we also have questions. And that was the only reason I had my doubts, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you. But did the real price rise, or is it just...]] No, the price of coal has increased in real terms. [[Has it gone up?]] Yeah, yeah, the price went up real. And as far as the price is concerned, we have, depending on the species of different sizes. But we can actually say that the price has increased since 2015. Because in 2016 we had a price lower than in 2015. And this year the price is indeed better than in 2015. Oh, and there were questions about the cost. I must tell you that we have synergies today. We have synergy, on the one hand, there is an increase in prices He is and I have to say that this is a good case because it allows us to involve more resources in investments On the other hand, we have significantly reduced the costs, for example by transferring the non-essential assets to SRK, even by transferring certain people from the administration... Because there is this programme of administration, which you have also adopted in the law. As far as the restructuring programme is concerned, let me mention, for example, that in introducing an investment plan, we have lowered per balance... Well, in the tenders, we have a price lower than before. When it comes to services, they're starting to grow. We notice this, but in general last year and this year we defend ourselves against previous years in terms of costs for specific services. Why? Because we're becoming a reliable partner for companies. These companies can also be a partner for banks today, because the Polish Górnicza Group is solvent, it is predictable. So that this calming, this predictability makes us also gain from the cost of money that is traded. The Polish Górnicza Group, even with some funds on its current account, has significantly lower costs because it is a company of lower risk. So that's price synergy and cost reduction in many areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u173	Minister, one last question. [[Last one?]] Last one. How much did the average price increase? Can you answer that? 20%, 30%?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u174	We've got a list here... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] But I'll give it to you, Mr. Marshal. The principal will bring it to me in a minute. I'm sorry, because we have... [[37%, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Thirty-seven ……]] [[Mr. Marshal, what does this have to do with the subject?]] [[Ma. Let me explain.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the average sales price in 2015 was PLN 258. In 2016, the average selling price spoke about the average price was 246 PLN 70 gr. January, July, because we are talking about these periods, is 316 PLN. This is what it looks like compared to 2015.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u175	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you kindly.]] There you go. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u176	Here we go. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Rulewski of... Exactly. Still from the Platform or not? [[SenatorJan Rulewski: Autonomy.]] Autonomy. But not Silesian? [[Independent, but partyy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u177	Thank you for your political insight. I can tell you your success, only under changed political conditions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law should be called the Barborca Act for Rentists and Retired Persons of 2017. This bill is the most expensive delegation in the world with which Mrs Szydło will succeed at barboro celebrations, because the value of this delegation will be over PLN 2 billion 300 million. Senator Grabowski has long been divorcing about his satisfaction. As he came from Silesia, he spoke of the gratitude that he would receive, also from those pensioners and pensioners. This was further developed by Minister Tobiszowski when he resorted to solidarism, allegedly described in the Constitution, as well as to the harm, rape and other phenomena that accompanied the miners so far, i.e. until the year two thousand... Actually, years don't count. There's only time after a good change and before a good change. You're referring to changes that took place up to the year 2,000... until a good change. It's all packaging. It does not convey the basic thesis that it is not even voluntaryism, in which the government would stress its will that it is due to miners, pensioners and pensioners, actually without giving important reasons, to acknowledge something that is a donation and which is called compensation in the new language. Compensation, Minister, however it is paid, is an income, and for this reason every fiscus, every responsible fiscus And undoubtedly Minister Morawiecki is called responsible, even proposed a programme of responsible development At least he would be interested in how it happens that the amount that is a donation is an income, escapes its power. In my questions I revealed that it is in collision or sin... is contrary to four other laws. Senator Grabowski, accompanied by Minister Tobiszowski, proves his concern... Gentlemen make an eye to me that I probably share their view. It is not that I share this view, because at the same time that Senator Grabowski and the ministers with this barbork gift will go to Silesia, in other places of the country, at least in Bydgoszcz, people will care whether they have enough money for coal at an increased price. Because ordinary people, Minister. And you represent yourself as a representative of ordinary people. They don't buy at sales prices, they buy at the store. And the coal you're talking about in the store doesn't cost 330 PLN and the increase didn't amount to 70 PLN, as you say. Only there was a 30% increase and coal costs almost PLN 1 thousand. But remembering ordinary people, actually poorer ones, because they're the ones that burn their ovens with coal, you also have to remember the economy. It is because of such policies, policies of favoritism, selective treatment of certain industries or professional groups that our chemistry, also Polish, is failing or cannot develop. The derivative of this is this. I'm looking at the senator from Włocławek, who has to notice it too. . that agricultural processing, also based on coal, may be uncompetitive with other markets. And in this way I understand the solidarity that you have spoken about, and according to which there is no equal and equal, only Poland is a single country and the economy is compact. It is said that retired people and pensioners, as Senator Grabowski said, were subjected to mobbing or were forced into agreements. Minister, even if that were the case, the law protected them. It protected them because it had to protect them from the power of the government, as I mentioned, since it is written in the law. This agreement, which you claim to have been imposed or dissolved, as you have literally said, by the President or the Director, is guarded by the Labour Inspector because it is an obligation to report it. This agreement is primarily guarded by those who make it. Well, it's hard to say that Polish trade unions in mines belong to weaklings. You can talk about the great success of the miners. Their success was a lot and they have an impact on what I'm talking about, i.e. to lift the price of coal, on the non-economicity of this great investment, which is Polish gold. From my experience, among other things, because from you too, although you are younger, it appears that it was the case that miners who left the mines, like no one in Poland, served the absolute discharge of PLN 100,000, and even Mr Balcerowicz did it. This was the case, 2 and 3 years ago, that there were laws in this room that either paid 12-month checks for the restructuring of mines, or that the miners were simply taken a leave of absence. This is also an extraordinary phenomenon on a social scale. Even in times of great triumph, Solidarity, no one dreamed of such briefings and benefits. But let's assume that this price has to be paid. I'm the only one asking... accusing the government of not That he has a big heart, that he's sensitive For harm's sake, it's just that he doesn't know how to do it and he violates the law. My regret for you, Minister, is due to the fact that you are abandoning such a system of governance, shaping its face, including the issue of justice, which... Minister, it is true that the principle of solidarity is enshrined in the preamble. It is understood as a certain tradition of Poland But I would like to remind you that it is further discussed how it is implemented. How? On the way of dialogue between employees and employers. Was there no dialogue in past and present years? There was a dialogue. Perhaps as a result of this dialogue... Perhaps its results proved to be unfavorable to one side. I know the miners you write about, the pensioners actually, but also the directors that the crew chose, and then abandoned and challenged from thieves. To me, all these people are citizens of the Third Republic, regardless of what parish they come from. You don't seem to be playing very well. I can't tell you how successful you are in managing this. The good of the crew consists of both the employees themselves and the board of directors, especially since this board was shaped by members of the board of directors, which were ordinary miners. There have been facilitations or compensations, especially for those who have left the mines forever, in the form of pensions... They could've had it. I'm not saying it was. To compensate for any losses due to the loss of coal and/or carbon allocation. This is the essence of dialogue and solidarity. These issues take place through dialogue in an open and unconventional economy. Therefore, Minister, I cannot consider this law to be a solidarity law that respects the principle of social justice. I say that it is a breach in the construction of solidarity Poland so far. What's more, it says here that, so to speak, the statutory pendolino is said that applications can only be submitted within 21 days. There's a lot of cases, life confirms, and I think you know that, too. What if it's the 20th day? Isn't that the kind of employee that's gonna cover that bill? What's the rush? Why 21 days, when the accounting unit is generally 1 month or 3 months. Hence my amendment to allow those people who have cases in court who may be deluded by this lump sum... [[Mr. Senator...]] Now. Let's give them a long time to think about where more and how much more they'll play. [[Thank you very much...]] Similarly, when it comes to a term in the case of claims that should not last a year, because it is artificially... [[Speaking of time, he's past it.]] Mr. Marshal says he'll back it up for three years, not a year. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u178	All I said was that time was up. Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Blackbay. [[I'm making amends.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, the discussion and questions we are addressing to you. Not only are the Senators of the Civic Platform, but also the Law and Justice are the result of an attempt to answer the question of why, why, and so on. So that such a request: please do not read it so that those who ask a lot of questions are total opponents of the bill. That's one thing. I'd like to say yes, Minister. We have an example here, and yet another, I understand that with the consent of the Senators of Law and Justice This is the parliamentary way: there are no changes to the budget law yet, and we are already saying that in a moment, once the bill is signed by the President, you will be able to apply. I'm the one asking, what happens if there are no changes to the budget bill? I understand that you have already agreed that the amendments to the budget bill will be. Well, this is a whole new road. I understand the Minister's thesis that we want for these people... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could I ask you from the theater to keep your voice down? [[Exactly.]] [[Calm down, please!]] I understand the concern of the Minister as Minister of Energy responsible for this field of life in Poland, that he is trying to convince us, does it in a good, competent, emotional way. Awesome, Minister... We are the only ones asking the question and raising the doubts that Senator Rulewski was talking about during the debate. And why is this one social group chosen? After all, when I go to Pomerania to my beloved county of Kwidzyn, thousands of people will ask me: why, how is this possible? You've chosen one social group. And I understand the Minister's argument. But in these 27 years of transformation... Because in transition, it's always that they're affected, unfortunately, or steths, somebody's business, good that things happen. And these social groups are a lot of things. I would understand if you, as the government, as the Minister said, were sensitive to certain social injustices, submitted that you were undertaking a programme related to the entire catalogue of various irregularities, the various kinds of bad things that had happened, and you would start with mining. Well, then I'd still be able to understand. Today in Polish reality there is a fight, in a moment it will be a big fight, probably also political, in the area of health protection. And the problem is... If we are talking about increases, which are a stage for further discussions, this is the amount of PLN 125.150 million. And with a light hand in extraordinary mode for one group, for one region you give PLN 2.35 billion from the budget. Minister, don't be surprised by our questions and our surprise at why only one group is chosen in this situation. Regarding, as the Minister said, the Bible principle, I would particularly like to draw attention to a passage of Bible principles. What does a good host do in seven years of harvest? I understand that we all know what he's doing: he saves, he collects so that when seven years of skinnyness comes, he can maintain a similar standard of living. What are you doing? You're doing exactly the opposite. What is, and even on credit We're spending it. As far as the good budgetary situation is concerned, I am simply looking forward to December this year. And if that's the way it's gonna be... Minister... Not Minister Tobiszowski... [[Moravian.]] ...only Minister Morawiecki announces that today there is a surplus of 5 billion, that there is a very good budgetary situation. Well, then, ladies and gentlemen. And the minister is probably right to say: if we have so much surplus, give the 2.35 billion to the mining industry, because there's a certain thing to regulate. But I'm waiting for the end of the year. And I wish all of us... especially Poles that this budget surplus is at the end of the year, I really wish it with all my heart. As you have heard Minister Morawiecki's statement from two weeks ago, which I quoted on social media... The Minister said this: today there are about 5 billion surpluses, but at the end of the year I expect to see about 45 and 50 billion deficits. But he kept saying, and here's the ten-billion-dollar profit, because there's almost 60 billion planned. Well, the good budgetary situation was calculated, I apologize very much, in the Polish People's Republic, and especially in the State Farms. It was planned that there would be 60 billion losses, 50 billion, so they had 10 billion profits. [[And bonuses.]] And bonuses for that. Yes, Mr. Marshal. [[Voice from the room: A 6-year plan made in a year.]] And that's why we have so many doubts, Minister. Starting with one group, dividing Poles again... The budget bill is not yet amended, and you are already launching the whole project. And you give one group, not to mention others. And today, once again, there is a dispute over 150 million PLN for a very important field of life for all Poles. I know that you can say that all Poles should sunbathe with coal and then it would be best. But I want to tell you that the use of coal for sunbathing also has negative sides, but I will not address this issue. Therefore, Minister, and especially ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice, as a mantra I will repeat what Alexis de Tocqueville once said about what is happening here: if the Senators understand that voters can be bought with taxpayers' money, it will be the end of American democracy. And, Minister, I would ask that, in addition to this whole arsenal of beautiful biblical examples that you used in today's debate and answers to questions, bear in mind that this is the end. Democracy is probably also in Poland. Buying groups, sharing societies, and if that's what the minister was talking about... I sign up for them, Minister, but it has to be done a little differently, not for some at the expense of others. And that's how it's done. Taking PLN 2 billion 350 million from the budget is taking money from all taxpayers' pockets. And if there's a pretty good budgetary situation, which I'm also gonna say... otherwise: I hope it's gonna be at the end of the year. Let's prepare a comprehensive programme for everyone, think about how long it takes to do this, and think about all the social groups, not just one. And finally, what I said at the break of the Minister. The obvious thing is that there's been some damage to the retired and retired miners who have left and had this equivalent, and they need to be compensated in some way. This is an axiom, Minister. I'm sure you do. Just tell me... After all, there are many companies in which 15, 20, 25% were reduced in the years of transformation. If they have received such salaries for 10 years, then they also have smaller pensions, different types of benefits. So I'd ask you not to choose groups, just do it in a comprehensive way. And don't do it at this rate. Because there's no budget bill, no budget changes, and you're already running the project. And finally, what's going on with the promotion. When I hear you're going to choose a company to promote this project You were talking about promotion, because in order to know where to apply, somehow it needs to be promoted. I'm getting a bit of goose bumps because I remember that the late prime minister's employees started a cool company and promoted themselves for the money of state companies. That is why I hope that this is not the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. But Alexis de Tocqueville lived in the 19th century and didn't work in the CODE or the Platform, so please don't write him into your party. [[Yeah, but if he knew there was gonna be a PiS in Europe, he'd write it even harder.]] Senator Ryszka. You're welcome. [[But Bones is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u181	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a senator from Silesia, there are 2 good, important mines in my district, belonging to the Polish Mining Group, the mines of Mysłowice-Wesła and the Piast-Ziemowit. In the first sentence, I would like to say that this procedated act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal expresses the will of the present government that those who are deprived of this right, who expect unsuccessfully to fulfil the promise... Because as the Civic Platform and the PSL carried out this project, it was assured that it was only for a few years, and then there will be a return to this, i.e. those deprived of this right, who in vain expect a solution to this issue for at least, well, some for almost 6 years, will receive a part of what they deserve. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski explained very precisely that it is not about some, say, remuneration which will be realized consecutively for all the groups affected in this process for 25 years that they gave up something there... It's as if it's just a partial payment of what they've been taken from them, they've actually been taken away from their pensions or their pensions. This is a fundamental issue. And this 10,000 zloty will certainly not improve their lives so that they do not have to worry about the future, but this compensation must be regarded as some kind of compensation for what they have lost. And just like the minister said, There is no social group, a professional group, which would be deducted from a pension of some part of the amount that they deserve. And that's very important. [[Half of Poland was taken...]] Yeah, well, you're a partyless man now, and you're the one who's talking to you, and there's nothing behind you. [[Thank you.]] In any case, this compensation will largely help to calm the social mood of pensioners and pensioners who have been waiting for solutions to this problem, who have come to our senators' offices all the time and asked when it will be settled. For people who aren't familiar with the subject, although they shouldn't. Already in this House, such people have been after such a thorough explanation by the Minister, which means coal debt, whether in nature or in the form of a monetary equivalent, once again, that it was part of the salary of a worker or a mining pensioner. And that it then had an impact on retirement. So it's not a special privilege, but it's included in the payment of old mining rights. And it was the Civic Platform, together with the PSL under their rule, bringing mining to collapse, and then having no idea of saving it, well, they took away this power, thinking that it would somehow help save mining plants. Well, there's a lot to be said about the lack of some rational mining policy then, about what caused the lack of profitability of many mining plants. All I'm going to say is that when it was economical, instead of investing in new walls, processing plants were being expanded into foreign capital, there were million orders for outsourcing companies, dozens of paid audits were commissioned, law firms were involved. Well, these are the elements of billions of mining losses. And by replying to Senator Jan Rulewski, who is so fighting for this universal justice and solidarity, I will say that if we restore some justice today, it does not mean equality. This does not mean: to each Pole equally. The National Coal Mining Section of the NSZZ.Solidarity, the largest union group, has negatively assessed this law. You know that. In the position adopted, the trade unionists opposed these solutions because they considered that some pensioners were completely ignored, while others were not given the right to choose between providing compensation and further receiving free coal. And in fact, according to the representatives of this largest mining union organization, pensioners and pensioners should have some choice, perhaps they should make some kind of settlement with them... [[Applause]] Yeah, but it'd probably take a long time. Moreover, the state budget certainly cannot afford what would have been adopted. That's why the matter had to be solved, let's say, suspension of the benefit somehow. The Minister explained here that this compensation cannot turn into a grant from the state budget, because it would be challenged by the European Union, but this is a fact, the fact is that, after the introduction of this law, pensioners and pensioners, former miners will be divided as if into several groups: those who will still have an equivalent paid by the Social Insurance Institution, for example. railroaders; those likely to continue to receive the benefit, but from former employers, not from the US; those who gain only the right to compensation, without the possibility to receive the benefit in the future; and those who have previously been effectively deprived of their rights to free coal, who will receive nothing, e.g. Those who are on mining leave now. One of these groups, to say the least, are those who, under the rule of the Civic Platform, were forced to sign these annexes, that they voluntarily resign after retirement. In fact, they were forced to sign this statement because if they had stayed for a few more months, they would have been fired because they had acquired pension rights. And here I can mention that when the Coal Company in February 2014 said these benefits to 160 thousand of its former employees, it was met with a wave of court proceedings which were filed by these former employees, and some, even a large part of these actions ended successfully. However, some courts granted this right, others questioned it. And then there was inequality in relation to individuals. Those are the facts. It had to be solved somehow. But the problem actually seems impossible to solve justly. That is why we must agree that the aim of this project is to compensate only to a certain extent what is due to the miners, and that we are, of course, doing so within the capacity of this state budget. Well, it's been said many times here that this benefit includes a group of 235,000 people, a budget burden of almost 2.5 billion. In this House, I have already acted on behalf of pensioners and miners, and I have pointed out that it is necessary to regulate the issue of coal inputs and to shift the burden of paying them out of companies to the state budget. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski has assured several times, also in this House, that there is work to be done in this area. Well, it's been a while. But we finally have this bill. She will certainly not end the case of possible legal claims of those persons who, for example, they will not accept this solution, but it largely eliminates injustice. It is therefore important to thank the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and especially the Ministry of Energy, for trying to solve this complex and unblamed problem. Maybe it's not the best solution, but it's significant. It is also important to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who, together with his services, has developed several billion zlotys for pensioners and miners in connection with the entitlement they deserved and were deprived of. In my opinion, this law responds to the socially motivated need to make amends to pensioners and miners. That's what they deserved. This solution in this important sector, such as hard coal mining, is important for the Polish state, especially now when such major organisational and legal changes are being carried out in this sector. I hope that this solution, as well as all the changes that are currently taking place there, will bring tangible benefits to our economy and our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's not bad that you're regulating obligations, but as I hear here, the Platform has forced miners to do something, and the current PiS government doesn't do it, it reminds me of a joke. The difference between the political economy of socialism and the political economy... Otherwise, what is the difference between the political economy of capitalism and the political economy of socialism? In the political economy of capitalism, man exploits man, and in the economics of socialism is the opposite. [[What do you mean?]] Here's the deal: the condition for receiving this 10,000 is that you give up your claims. If someone has gone to court and has a case in court, and there are quite a number of cases, they must withdraw the case, and those who have not gone to court must sign an undertaking that they will not go to that court. Therefore, it reminds me of this joke that it is the other way around that man does not exploit man, only man exploits man. What's the situation in mining? It was terrible, very bad. We were alarmed that coal on the heaps was burning, that no one wanted to buy that the price was very low. And it was actually very low. At the moment, we have had an economic situation for several years, not only in Poland, but also in the world. The average price of Polish coal was 30%. In Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, coal was more than twice the price of coal from 80 to 160 or even, it seems, up to 200 dollars and coal from the Polish Mining Group only by 10% but it's economical and coal is more expensive, mines achieve better results. What is the government proposing now? It proposes to pay compensation from the budget. Those 2 billion 350 million are coming out of the budget. It's not like everyone gets evenly that everyone has to get evenly because there are other needs. Between 1990 and 2016, mining went in different ways to some 230 billion PLN. This is PLN 15,000 for a Pole. It was all kinds of reliefs, subsidies, etc. Each year there's 8.5 billion... Is this ever gonna end? Well, I'm afraid not. Going to coal, in modernising coal energy, is the need to draw extra money from energy charges. At the moment this is PLN 162.50 per MWh, and it would be profitable within the limit of PLN 230 per MWh. A power market is to be put in place to finance this. This additional money from the electricity charge will be paid by everyone, and the final beneficiary will, of course, be mining. In this situation, coal energy is expanding, and it doesn't build at all... It is not known whether it will go into renewable energy at all, windmills above all. They stayed, so to speak, frozen. Support for mining after we pass this bill will increase from PLN 8.5 billion per year to PLN 11 billion per year. Is there money for that? Turns out they are. [[They're ……]] I even hear from the gym that there's money. [[Security, Mr. Marshal.]] And there's no money for young doctors? [[They will be.]] There'll be money. Well, I'm glad there's gonna be money, too. Well, if it's better, it's better to share. You can't follow the rule that if there's a hypothetical surplus, we're giving it away. The government, Minister, applies this principle, and this is apparent from this law. There should be a change in the budget first. This law should be adopted when there is a change in the budget. Because the rules of law are that it must be guaranteed to finance the budget in order to pass a bill. [[It's a technical matter.]] It's not just a technical matter. Either the law in Poland applies or it doesn't, or you can do anything. [[Money needs to be used by the end of the year.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh.]] So this is, of course, a legal issue. I'm not gonna get into this, but it shows the way of thinking: first, let's adopt it, and we're gonna have to spend it, because we passed it, and then we're gonna try to put it in the budget. I warn and ask... there are other groups, this is a precedent for the next groups, which also have deputies or what is not called deputies, but what is a deputat. If we're gonna level with these people... And the deputies should be wiped out in the first place. This should be done by wagers where employees work. Those 2 billion 350 million for 235,000 people should lay out the mines where these people worked. Especially since the mines are making a profit. The mines are making a profit right now... [[...eat.]] ...and it's possible. Okay, let's eat, I get it. Mr. Senator says to eat. Then you can eat the budget money you want... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...and the money of the plant that produces and works for profit, cannot be eaten. Well, I don't accept that kind of philosophy. [[Thank you very much.]] And I say, the next group will also set up and demand money from the state budget. And they'll be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Frost. [[Mr. Marshal's messing up now.]] No, because I'm consulting with the Minister... We have a temporary situation here, so I hope that this point closes quickly and in 15 minutes we will rewrite the third, very important point, because the Deputy Minister of Health is leaving tomorrow for a conference abroad, and... [[It's like Senator PiS isn't speaking, so we'll make it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But the senator made a voluntary commitment to speak briefly. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u185	Shortly, Mr. Marshal. Dear colleagues, I must say, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj inspired me to speak because so much... [[It's not ad vocem.]] ...some populism... [[And I thought it was...]] ...and such unspoken, but otherwise outlined sadness that it goes so well in the budget... [[No.]] Mr. Senator, to be honest, we need to address this. Mr. Senator, thanks to Mr. Morawiecki's programme, we have many, many billions more revenue in the budget today than it was under the Civic Platform and your great London economist, Mr. Rostowski. [[But Morawiecki was a counselor...]] And that, unfortunately, you can't... [[It's Morawiecki...]] But if you'll excuse me, I'll get to that. And you can't do that in any way... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Morawiecki was Tusk's advisor.]] ...to hide or scream. And today we are able, Mr. Senator, to introduce into the budget a new expense of 23.5 billion, which is to provide 500+, we are today able to give free medication to seniors... [[I'm sure we won't make it.]] ...and yet we are able to correct your mistakes as well. 'Cause it was in your day, in your rule, that problem with deputies due to people arose, and you left mining in a tragic state, because all the companies on the verge of bankruptcy. And us for 2 years, among others. Thanks to the Minister present in the Chamber, he manages to straighten this out slowly, slowly and with various measures. Well, that's the facts. [[Except there's no carbon.]] And whatever you say, you can't scream it. The last thing I need right here... Because it's what you're asking the marshal to do, because you're still waiting for the Minister of Health... [[There's gonna be a comeback.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are implementing this law so that two hundred and thirty-six thousand people do not go to the courts and are not suing the Polish State for those deputies that are due to them that are not paid. Because, as the Minister emphasized, this is about acquired rights. All these people deserved it. In other discussions, when the senators also say that we have to protect the courts, we cannot say that we have to bury the courts in small matters... And here is what Senator Grzegorz Bierecki said today at the meeting of the finance committee and the budget: this is a bill that out-of-court solves the problem of two hundred and thirty thousand people. Here we relieve these pensioners and pensioners because they won't have to go to court, they won't have to pay those court costs, they'll sue, they won't flood I'm sure it's for many years. The District Court in Katowice requests... After all, we will accomplish this witness for these older people. Just one more sentence for Marshal Borusewicz. Yeah, if someone thinks this equivalent is too low, that the 10,000 isn't enough, they can go to court. And if someone... it's a standard, sort of legal settlement. Because it's like when you go to court, and there the court says the same thing: we don't do the whole trial if the parties get along. This law is just such a statutory settlement which the Polish State has with these pensioners. But if someone doesn't want to take this deal, then of course they have an open court, with all the consequences. That's all, Mr. Marshal, don't... I'm finishing my statement so I don't prolong it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u186	Thank you. We've got 11 minutes for the debate that's going on, and we've got the whole point three. That's all I want to say here. 'Cause at 7:00 p.m., we have guests who are important guests in the guest stands. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, you inspired me so much, Mr. Marshal, that I must say two words in spite of your requests. Mr. Senator... [[That was two words.]] [[Yeah, that was two words.]] I'd like to say... [[He's instinctive.]] I'm not gonna repeat the whole speech... [[Five minutes.]] What I'm trying to say is that I'm gonna be happy for you, probably with you, if we have a five-billion-dollar surplus at the end of the year. [[But no one's talked about it.]] That's first of all. Secondly, I would also like to say that I would be happy if you could correct all kinds of irregularities, inequalities and other things that I will not call by name and which have happened for 27 years. I'm just surprised it starts with mining and gives over 2 billion zlotys of mining. That's what surprises me. And you may disagree with that. And now that you're on the political agenda, let me put it this way: Prime Minister Morawiecki As far as I know, maybe I'm wrong, he was one of Prime Minister Tusk's leading advisors, and he advised him... [[Yes, sir. Why don't you say it?]] ...to bring the country to ruin... [[Fun in the room]] [[And now he's rebuilding.]] ...and now to rebuild. [[Joy in the Chamber]] See how cunning he is? [[Applause]] You inspired me so much to explain it to you. Mr. Senator, now you're saying a beautiful thing: we're giving over PLN 2 billion to relieve the courts. Well, that's a beautiful idea! You're just taking everyone out of the budget. It will be PLN 2 billion 350 million to relieve the courts. [[Billions, billions.]] I'm quoting Senator Mroz, who said that one of the elements is the relief of the courts, because if 235,000 people go to court... What I'm trying to say is that in one country, the president was also burdened with the courts... [[He was closing the judges.]] ...closing the judges, erasing the sentence, etc. Therefore, I would be very careful with this lightening of the courts. Finally, Mr. Senator, once again, I would like to point out that sharing society is not a good solution, and sharing society by pulling money out of the budget is already a terrible solution, and giving away money when it is necessary to save and invest, that is to bring the country to ruin. I don't know where they do that, but It's a theory. If that's what you do, you ruin the country. And once again, I want to remind you... The Minister often referred to Bible principles, and I would like to say this to you again: in times of economic prosperity It's been written about many years, many years ago, a good host accumulates what he can produce to make enough for a difficult period for the next 7 years. And you're trying to convince us that a light hand is going to divide society and spend almost 2.5 billion zlotys, that's fantastic. and that the rule of the Civic Platform has led to this. I encourage you to read a real report on the coal industry in Europe and the fluctuations. And I would also like to say what I have already said, that I believe that the former advisor to Prime Minister Tusk has a significant share in this ruin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You've been trying to fix it for eight years, and it didn't work out for you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u188	Thank you very much. Senator Shark. [[Say something about Kolobrzeg.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u189	Thank you very much. I'll tell you about Kolobrzeg too, Senator... [[I'm counting on it.]] You called me to answer. Minister, two sentences. You'll make it. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Because today, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, we heard that I came from a region of particular disabilities and special needs. It's literally gone... These are the Recovered Lands. I'm from Koszalinski. Therefore, I would like to address the Minister in this speech: Minister, I would very much like to ask you to take advantage of all the goods that were lost to PGR employees in the 1990s. And they lost a lot. They lost their dairy debt, their meat debt, their light... [[...for potatoes.]] ...for potatoes, etc., etc. [[To potatoes, too.]] I would be very grateful if you would also defend this most deprived group from this particular region. I'd be most grateful. So much for mining. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u190	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Rulewski, as well as the senators of Misiołek and Piechota, submitted proposals of a legislative nature, so that 3 senators have made such proposals. I've already closed the discussion. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: No.]] No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 607 and the committee report In prints No 607 A and 607 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee. I hear it's a very short report. Short and brief.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u191	Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There was a meeting of the Health Commission on the opinion of the Act amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws. The aim of the Act is to create a legal framework enabling pilot programmes to be carried out to check the planned new systemic arrangements for the organisation, implementation or financing of health care services, simplify and clarify the procedure for the development of health policy programmes, and to ensure standardisation of the activities undertaken, to enable the Minister responsible for health access to personal data contained in the electronic health programme monitoring system and to amend the procedure for selecting the health policy programme implemented by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arthur Warzocha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think I can break Senator Stanisławek's record. All I can say is that the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, after its meeting on 29 September, recommends the adoption of this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u194	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request for the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for the vote, but we only have Senator Łuczak's speech submitted to the minutes. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Thank you very much. There are no legislative proposals. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm calling a two-minute recess until 7:00. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 58 to 19 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Your Professor Zarin is not here. Yes?]] I don't have the ringtone that Marshal Sewerinski left us here, but please be quiet. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 55th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak. Welcome to the meeting of Mrs Jolanta Baziak-Jankowska, the niece of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak, and other guests. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is included in print No 578 and the committee's report In print No 578 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hello, honored guests, headed by Mrs. Jolanta Baziak, next of kin of the sleep. Archbishop Eugenius Baziak. I am pleased to present a report on the resolution on the 55th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak. The Legislative Commission decided at its meeting on 20 September 2017 to request the adoption of a single text in accordance with the attached draft resolution after minor amendments. I just want to add that while reading this text, I found another small grammatical error. It's about a bad change by chance. On page two, in verse nine, there is the phrase: "In both archdioceses..." Here it is not to be subject to, but to its jurisdiction. Therefore, I would ask you to correct this grammatical mistake. May I read the draft of this resolution, Mr. Marshal? [[Yes, you're welcome.]] So I am happy to read the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland It will be noted here that on October 18th, on the 55th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak. Of course, it is about 18 October 2017. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the memory of the Archbishop of Eugeniusz Baziak, the metropolitan of Lviv, who heroically served as a pastor in the Diocese of Lviv, dividing the war and post-war fate of Poles forced to leave their home in Kresach. The Archbishop of Baziak, despite persecution and all-night interrogations by the Soviet invaders, who were to force him to leave Lviv and Kresów immediately, remained relentless until the end of his ministry to the rest of the country. Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak was born on 8 March 1890 in Ternopil. On 7 October 1908, he joined a seminary in Lviv and at the same time began his studies at the Faculty of Theology at the University of Lviv. On 14 July 1912 in Przemyślany he accepted priestly ordination. At the end of World War I he became the administrator of the parish of Tarnopol. In 1931, he became a parish priest in Stanisławów, the dean of the decanate of Stanisławowski, as well as a canon of the metropolitan chapter. During his two-year service in Stanisławów he revived the Polish Youth Association, took care of the poor and the sick, who were assisted by numerous associations The Cross-Bishop Rescue Committee, St. Wincentego a Paulo, Bread Hungry Children and Christian People's Kitchen. The Holy Father Pius XI, following the parishioners' request, appointed Fr. Baziak is an apostolic pronotary. In 1933. Pope Pius XI nominated Fr. Baziak as bishop of the suffragan, he also became the rector of the seminary. During World War II he shared a dramatic fate with the faithful in Lviv. Despite repeated night interrogations by Soviet invaders, he sought the functioning of a seminary that the Soviets had abolished in 1939, gave priestly ordinations and visited parishes. He also carried out charity activities and informed the Holy See about the situation in the diocese, especially by conducting documentation of persecution of the Church and martyrdom of the Polish clergy, which took place at the hands of the occupier and during the Volynian slaughter. The Archbishop organized aid for tens of thousands of people who were criminally deported to the Soviet Union as well as for the poor, starving local population. Bishop Baziak took over the Archbishop's rule on 22 November 1944. In April 1946 he was forced to leave Lviv and was residing in Lubaczów since August 1946. After the death of Cardinal Adam Stefan Sapieha, he served as administrator of the apostolic archdiocese of Krakow. As a result of the unleashed so-called. Curia Cracow's trial is under house arrest. In 1952 he was arrested and accused of espionage and was not blackmailed by security and was forced to leave Cracow and banned from both archdiocese under his jurisdiction. Here's the amendment. Instead of the word "submissible," the word "subsistence" should be the word "subsistence." That's what I was talking about at first. And go on. He returned to Cracow after a thaw in 1956. In 1962, the Pope appointed him Archbishop of Krakow and Administrator of the Apostolic Archdiocese of Lviv. Archbishop Baziak died on 15 June 1962 just before the announcement of this nomination at the Polish Episcopal Conference in Warsaw. The Senate of the Republic of Poland addresses teachers and educators with an appeal for popularization among young people of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak A steadfast pastor, full of sacrifice of the pastor of Poles expelled from the Kress, with whom he was to the end, and later a relentless shepherd of the Krakow metropolis. Because of his steadfast, heroic attitude, he was sentenced by the communist authorities to forget and wipe his life from the pages of history as a man in whom even persecution and imprisonment could not break the spirit and love of the people and Homeland. It was the Archbishop of Baziak who in the most difficult times was the support of faith and patriotism, he saved many priestly vocations, saving a seminary that was transferred to Kalwaria Zebrzydowska, which resulted in the next generation of priests who were raised and consecrated by him, among whom was his successor cardinal. Marian Jaworski. It was Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak who pointed out Prof. Karol Wojtyla, the future Great Pope of John Paul II, for the post of auxiliary bishop and made him his successor in Krakow. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] This applause expresses a clear appreciation for the content of the resolution and I hope that this will also be voted on. But, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to read the letter eventually. I don't know at what point did you send Cardinal Marian Jaworski to the Senate Marshal, who was a personal secretary for two years... [[Maybe now. You're welcome.]] Okay, I'll read it. Honourable, Mr. Marshal. I express my deep gratitude for taking the initiative and resolution concerning the Archbishop of Lviv metropolitan and the Nominate of Krakow's Eugeniusz Baziak by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. I would also like to thank you for the equipment of the hall with photographic boards depicting the life and activities of the Archbishop, as well as the organisation of the meeting today and the screening of the film directed by Mrs. Bogusławy Cichoń. All of this constitutes a great undertaking that will expose the dead archmaster to the end of the faithful inheritance of the Church and Homeland. It will undoubtedly be an important reminder of a person who has been forgotten in past periods. It will also help to enrich the knowledge of our Eastern Ends and build a true national identity. I wish you a beautiful meeting and rich fruits of this undertaking. I really wanted to take part in this meeting today in the Senate, but unfortunately the state of health He won't let me. I'm gonna stay spiritually connected with their participants all the time. With deep respect Cardinal Marian Jaworski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u196	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Zbigniew Cichonia to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that... Senator Silence to discuss... Yes? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Invited guests! I would just like to add briefly that Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak beautifully fits into this procession of magnificent figures of the metropolitans of Cracow postwar period. After all, he was the successor of the steadfast, as Cardinal Adam Sapieha was said to have been. After him, I remind you, former Cardinal Wojtyla, then Cardinal Francis Macharski, Cardinal Dziwisz, personal secretary of Pope John Paul II. In this post of these fantastic people, great, one could say, princes of the Church, who in very difficult times of oppressive communist system could lead the Church with a raised head. Without succumbing to the blackmails of the totalitarian system, exposing themselves to numerous harassments, including imprisonment, as was the case with Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak, and even giving in to torture, but not giving out and keeping the integrity of the princes of the Church all the time, they also witnessed to the entire nation as can be done in these difficult times, and they were excellent guides to the rest of the nation. I would like to remind you that Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak was not only a great archbishop, but also a man with a very good heart and a great sense of feeling towards the people with whom he came to cooperate. He was the man who saw in the young Charles Wojtyle a person worthy of becoming a bishop of Krakow. He was the one who requested the appointment of young Charles Wojtyla as auxiliary bishop. It is even anecdotal, but the real event that occurred at the moment when he received a letter from the Pope that the Pope accepted and established Charles Wojtyla as a auxiliary bishop in Cracow. Archbishop Baziak went out to announce this joyful message to all the staff of the Bishop's curia, gathered them in this beautiful living room and said: I received a letter from the Vatican that the Holy Father consented and called to the auxiliary bishop of Karol Wojtyla. And he concluded with this information: habemus papam. How it turned out to be profetic in the light of what happened several dozen years later, when the bishop, Cardinal Wojtyla, was indeed Pope. So that it's only short enough to add some information, maybe a bit anecdotal, to our resolution, which I hope will We'll do it in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a senator from Krakow, also on behalf of another Senator from Krakow, Mr Bogdan Klich, and of course all the senators, I would like to thank the Legislative Commission and Senator Cichoni very much for preparing this beautiful resolution about a man who is very important to the Krakow people, about a great and beautiful bishop and his history. I thank you very much once again and thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the room: Now we can...]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 55th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please state the results of the vote. Sixty-five senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate adopted a resolution on the 55th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak. I ask Mrs.Jolanta Baziak-Jankowska to approach the presidential table, I would like to present a resolution to you. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal's handing out a resolution.]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, to the photo.]] [[Voice from the room: Under the eagle.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, let me... [[Voices from the room: Into the microphone.]] [[Maybe in the microphone.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the first time I've spoken here, so forgive my emotions. Thank you very much. She feels honored and even to a certain extent unworthy to accept this resolution. Nevertheless, most heartily, Mr. Marshal, the Senators, the High Izbo, thank you on behalf of the family, on behalf of the Archbishop. I think he's out there looking after our deliberations. And I think it'll be recorded somewhere upstairs. I don't promise on his behalf, but I think that's how it's gonna be. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u202	Thank you very much for coming to the Senate today. Ladies and gentlemen, we invite you all to room 217 in the Senate building, where a screening of the film about the Archbishop of Eugeniusz Baziaku will take place. At the same time, I would like to inform you that there is an opportunity to see the occasional exhibition in room 217. A brief announcement from Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u203	Meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the review of the Act amending the Sales Tax Act... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]] [[Voices from the O.R.: One more time!]] [[One more time, please?]] The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the review of the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax will be held tomorrow at 8.30 am in room 179. Meeting of the Legislative Commission on the continuation of the first reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2018 The Year of the Truth of Poles under the birth mark will be held tomorrow at 8.00 in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of requests for compensation for the loss of the right to free coal will be held tomorrow at 8.15 am in room 179.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-18-senat-48-1.u204	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. [[Meeting adjourned at 19 minutes 22]]
