ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u1	I open the forty-fifth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Mark Pęk to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its forty-fifth meeting on 7 July 2017, adopted the only amendment notified by the Senate to the Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the Act on the Refund of Drugs, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to it, it will be adopted at the next Senate meeting. High Izbo, I inform you that on 5 July 2017, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration informed the Senate about the activities of the Police as defined in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1.21 of the Police Act, including the information and data referred to in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of this law, for 2016. It is included in print No 544. On 7 July 2017, I sent information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information and informed me at its meeting on 11 July 2017. I would also like to inform you that on 13 June 2017, the Attorney General provided the Senate with a clear annual information on the total number of persons subject to a request for control and retention of interviews or an application for operational control. It is included in print No 530. On 22 June 2017, I sent the information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information and informed me at its meeting on 11 July 2017. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items one, two and three of the draft agenda be considered, although the Commission's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to change the order of consideration of the fourth item of the agenda, i.e. the Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents, and to consider this item as the first item of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and certain other laws and consider it as item two of the agenda. We would also like to make this proposal. To vote on this point right away. Next additions: Act amending the Law on the Principles for the Financing of Science and Certain Other Acts and to consider this item as item 6 of the agenda; the Act on the National Agency for Academic Exchange and to consider this item as item 7 of the agenda; the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Act on Corporate Income Tax and to consider this item as item 8 of the agenda; amendment of the Law on the rules for implementing cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective 2014 and 2020 and certain other laws and consider this item as item 9 of the agenda; the Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment and consider this item as item 10 of the agenda; the Law amending certain laws relating to family support schemes and consider it as item 11 of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer and the Act on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters and considering this item as item 12 of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on Housing Cooperatives, the Act on the Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on the Cooperative Law and considering this item as item 13 of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on Real Estate Management and certain other laws and consider this item as item 14 of the agenda; the Law amending the Law on State aid in the acquisition of the first apartment by young people and consider this item as item 15 of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on the Agricultural Market Agency and the organisation of certain agricultural markets and amending certain other laws and to consider this item as item 16 of the agenda; the Law amending the law on the Code of Conduct in Offences and consider it as the 17th item of the agenda; the Act on the performance of tasks in the field of promotion of the Polish economy by the Polish Investment and Trade Agency Akcyjna Company and its consideration as a item of the 18th item of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u2	I object to the introduction of point 10: the Act amending the Environmental Law. A month ago, at the request of the PiS, we passed a law on submission to the government of voivodship environmental funds and only a month later we are proceeding to amend this law. This shows how the laws are being dealt with in a hurry. I oppose the introduction of point 10, which concerns the amendment of the law adopted a month ago. [[And I'm all...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u3	Good. I understand, Mr. Marshal. The question is, are there any other... Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u4	Mr. Marshal, you have proposed to consider point two, which concerns oil and natural gas stocks. I'd like to ask the reasons for this transfer. This is a very serious bill. This is a law which guarantees on the one hand the continuity of the maintenance of resources and on the other hand causes anxiety. Citizens fear that the cost of living will increase due to the rise in gas prices, not only as a result of this law. We should have a little more time to think about all this. That's why I'd like to know why you're asking the marshal to proceed on this bill at such an accelerated rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u5	But right now, Mr. Senator, we're not discussing the order of points. If you're against it, file a formal motion. I asked the question... [[No, I'm not against it.]] Good. I asked the question, and you asked the second question. I'm asking you to answer my question. I will repeat: if I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Right now, we're not in the middle of asking any questions, just... [[I'm gonna ask the same question in a second.]] There is no formula that would allow us to ask questions and discuss now, Senator. Are you proposing not to consider this point as point two?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u6	I submit a motion not to change the order in which the points are dealt and to deal with them in the same order as we agreed at the Seniors Convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u7	Are there any other voices? There isn't. We can vote. First, we will vote on the motion to object to Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. We are voting in such a way that I will ask who is in favour of my proposal to complete the agenda on the item: the Act amending the Environmental Protection Law And consider it as point ten. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 26 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the point: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment will be considered on this agenda as point ten. The next conclusion, Senator Klich, is not to take into account my proposal to move the point: the Law on the amendment of the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas, and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and certain other laws, and considering this point as the second. Mr. Senator is in favour of keeping this point. As originally stated in the ninth point. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favor of point two? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 60 for, 24 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that this law will be considered as second paragraph. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 40th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of... Oh, no, I'm sorry. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the agenda is excessive, in order to exercise the senator's authority to submit draft draft resolutions in this case... I already tabled a draft resolution in February to support Mr Tusk's candidacy for the second term of office of the President of the European Council. There's been a procedure, work on this resolution. There's a report on the resolution. I am writing another letter to you, and you, Mr Marshal, seem to want to break the record in this House by refusing to put this item on the agenda, on any agenda. I therefore request that the order be supplemented, as the regulations say, by the good principles and customs of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u9	Senator Zdrojewska. [[Mr. Marshal...]] You'll be the next senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u10	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I would just like to draw our House's attention to the fact that it is very difficult to have any comments on the agenda, since you have just read the additional points introduced in a quick manner and we haven't even recorded them, we haven't... So that I'm paying attention to this and in the future, if the marshal knows something like this, maybe we could at least get offers. That's the conclusion for the future. [[But this isn't about the agenda.]] This is... Mr. Marshal... [[But this, Senator...]] This is... [[Right now it's gone... and I'm gonna answer that... okay, I get it. Senator, right now we're talking about order, not order, we're talking about order. And I'm gonna answer you, okay, I'm gonna answer you because...]] But I'm not done yet, Mr. Marshal. [[Well, yes, but... you're welcome, Senator, to finish your speech and your conclusion.]] Thank you very much. Because Mr. Marshal interrupted me completely unnecessarily. I think this is about our entire House, because please tell us how to explain... [[Okay, I'll explain.]] ...how we're supposed to talk about the agenda... [[Good.]] ...if we don't have that agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u11	Thank you very much. I'll explain, senator. Anyone else? Mr. Senator Martynowski. [[Voices from the room: He's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm filing a motion against Senator Rulewski's motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u13	Good. Mr. Senator? No. Anyone else come forward? I'll just answer, by way of exception, Senator. Namely in the Senior Convention we discussed all these points. He was a representative of your club. This is why the relevant dates for club meetings are later set in order to discuss this agenda at club meetings. So we're not going to double what's supposed to be at the club meeting right now. Mr. Senator. There you go. Or on the agenda? [[Mr. Marshal, yeah, that's all we talked about.]] Okay, then. I just wanted to protect myself and make sure. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, I want to make the same motion as our boss, Mr. Senator, but it's also worth trying to justify it. Well, Mr. Senator Rulewski, I understand that you want the High House, the Senate to confirm the choice or legitimacy of Mr. Tusk as head of the Council of the European Union. I don't think that's necessary. If this is necessary, I would prefer to consider that this choice is unreasonable and the Senate of the Republic of Poland should not accept this choice. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The question for the marshal is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Please don't speak on this matter anymore. We're gonna vote it out. [[Yeah, let's vote.]] I understand that one formal motion has been tabled, Senator Rulewski, and there is an objection by Senator Martynowski, so we can proceed with the vote. We proceed with the vote on Senator Rulewski's motion. Who's in favour of supplementing the agenda with the item on the resolution you were talking about? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We are voting and I will give you the results of the vote in a moment. Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 27 for, 59 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] Would any of you like to speak on the agenda? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u16	Mr. Marshal, ad vocem of your replica against Senator Zdrojewska. Senator Zdrojewska did not talk about a specific agenda, because at the club meeting we discussed this agenda... [[Okay, well, I'm glad.]] ...after the Senior Convention meeting, we discussed it thoroughly. Senator Zdrojewska talked about the fact that senators should have an elementary minimum of time to simply prepare for particular points. And it can't be like that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[No, no, no...]] ...that we are surprised, Mr. Marshal. [[...I'm completely different, Senator, I understand the senator's statement. It's completely different.]] The Seniors Convention meeting is at 10 a.m., ends at 10.15 p.m., we vote on the agenda at 11 p.m., which includes several different new points. Therefore, none of the senators, none of the senators have the chance to prepare themselves well for this. This is bad practice, and that's what Senator Zdrojewska was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u17	I understood it a little differently, but it's hard enough. Good. We're not gonna comment on law enforcement right now. The venue for this discussion is the Senior Convention meeting, and we can talk about it at the Senior Convention meeting. If there's a need for time, the senator could have filed a motion to postpone the session by half an hour. The conclusion would be sufficient. I realized that since no club had requested that the session be postponed, you were familiar with the agenda. That's the conclusion I could have drawn. Okay, is this about... This is the third time I will ask the question: would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. The vote on the second item of the agenda, i.e. the Act amending the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas, and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and certain other laws, will be carried out immediately after consideration of this item. If legislative proposals for this law are tabled, the vote will take place after a short break in the proceedings. But we'll still announce a short recess, 10, 15 minutes so all senators can take part in the vote. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that according to the article. 85h. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2016 and on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2016 we will hold a joint debate. An hour's adjournment will be ordered tonight at 2:00 p.m. We will consider a point on the activity of the Supreme Court in 2016 in the afternoon and evening hours. The point on the report on the status of Polish language protection for the years 2014 to 2015 will be considered tomorrow, i.e. July 13th. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. The text of the Act is contained in print No 537, and the report of the Commission In print No 537 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, I have the honour to present a report on the work at the committee meeting held on 5 July concerning the Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. The Act amends the Act of 25 June 2010 on Sport and the Act of 18 October 2006 on the disclosure of State Security Authorities documents from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. The amendments to the Act of June 2010 on Sport come down, among others. to extend the definition of "sports" as a result of this amendment sport will also be competition based on intellectual activity, the aim of which is to achieve the outcome of sports "sports" and the extension of the catalogue of circumstances excluding the possibility of being a member of the board of the Polish sports association. It will not be possible to combine this function with the work of the Ministry providing services to the Minister responsible for physical culture, as well as to the role of the national staff trainer or the function of the training staff of the national staff in the same sport. Moreover, a member of the management board of the Polish sports association will not be able to act as a member of the body of the entity providing services, supplies or construction works for the benefit of the Polish sports union, including sponsorship services, as well as to be the closest person, within the meaning of the Penal Code, for persons engaged in an economic activity consisting in providing services, supplies or works to the Polish sports association, and being the closest person, within the meaning of the Penal Code, among others. for a person who holds shares or shares in commercial law companies and is a partner of a personal commercial law company. In addition, this person, i.e. a member of the management board of the Polish sports union, cannot be an employee, officer or soldier of the State security authorities referred to in Article. 5 of the Act of 18 December 1998 on the Institute of National Remembrance In addition, a member of the management board of the Polish sports association will not be able to hold any shares in commercial companies carrying out business activities related to the performance by the association of its statutory tasks. He could have had a maximum of 10% so far. This law also prohibits a person who was an employee, officer or soldier of the security authorities referred to in the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, from acting as a member of the internal control body of the Polish sports union, and introduces an order for the member of the board and the member of the internal control body of the Polish sports association to refrain from activities contrary to the interests of the Polish sports union and to determine how to proceed in the event of a conflict of interest. The Act introduces the possibility to participate in professional league games of clubs acting as limited liability companies, as well as provides for the supervision of the Minister responsible for physical culture decisions of disciplinary and regulatory authorities of Polish sports unions related to the organisation of sports competition. As a result, the amendment will exclude from the catalogue the supervisory measures of the Minister responsible for physical culture the decision to suspend the implementation of the decision of the authorities of the Polish sports association and to call them to amend or repeal it within a specified period. The Act allows the Minister responsible for physical culture to award a special sports scholarship to a member of national staff who has not achieved a sporting result. The revision will organise and clarify the rules on sport scholarships for the results achieved in international competition, awards, prizes and badges. The Act complements the list of grounds for granting a cash benefit from the State budget. The right to benefit shall not be exercised by a person who has been disciplined for doping in sport in a unit dimension greater than 24 months of disqualification. Following the amendment of the Act of 18 October 2006 on disclosure of the documents of the State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, a member of the Management Board of the Polish Sports Association will be deemed to be a public person and as a result a candidate for this function will be required to make a illustrative statement. The Minister responsible for physical culture will be the competent authority to submit a illustrative statement by the candidate for the board member of the Polish Sports Association. During the work, ladies and gentlemen, the committee heard the reasons. Mr Jarosław Stawiarski, Minister of Sport, presented the purpose and subject of the Act. The Commission also took note of the opinion of the Legal Office of the Senate, in which, among others, a constitutional legal question has been raised. Following this amendment of the Act of 18 October 2006 on disclosure of the documents of the State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, a member of the Management Board of the Polish Sports Association will be deemed to be a public person, and consequently a candidate for this function will be required to make a illustrative statement. That's what I've already mentioned. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of 11 May 2007 was cited, which challenged a similar solution in the no longer applicable law of 29 July 2005 on qualified sport. According to the legislator, the amendment of the Act of 18 October 2006 can be considered as non-constitutional. However, during the discussion on this subject, the committee adopted the arguments put forward by the applicants, stressing the need to impose high ethical and moral requirements on people involved in the functioning of Polish sports unions. The restriction was introduced because of the need to protect the constitutional value of public morality. In addition, this opinion concerns the no longer applicable law on qualified sport. We now have a new law regulating sport. The Commission also took note of the legislator's detailed comments on the procedure for the law and carried out an in-depth analysis of the proposed 10 amendments. Finally, the committee unanimously adopted 7 amendments. They are presented in print No 537 A. These are amendments Nos 1 and 6 and 8. Finally, the committee unanimously adopted these 7 amendments. During the discussion, the president, Prof. Wind, tabled an amendment on Article. 36, talking about the provision of money from the state budget to Polish representatives in the Olympic Games, the Special Olympic Games and the deaf games. The point was to be more specific in the mouth. 2 pkt 7 conditions for the person receiving the benefit so that it is not punishable disciplinaryly for doping in sports by disqualification in a unit dimension greater than 24 months or more than once regardless of its unit dimension. This amendment was also accepted. This is Amendment 5 in my mentioned print No 537 A. In the following part of the discussion, Senator Prof. Żaryn referred to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 9 of the Act, which states that a member of the Management Board of the Polish Sports Association cannot be a person who was an employee, officer or soldier of state security authorities. The Professor's question was how to treat people who were informants of security services, so-called. personal information sources. Finally, as I have already mentioned, the committee presents amendments adopted unanimously by the committee to the Senate of the Republic of Poland in print No 537 A and requests the adoption of the bill together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the Ministry of Sport for preparing this amendment. This is an expected novel, because it aims to purify public life and what the rapporteur said would be an increase in ethical, moral standards. I understand that the members of the board will be making illustrative statements before taking over the function. And what will happen to those who are now performing these functions? Do they also have a period of time to make a corroboration statement? How does the legislator propose to solve this right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u21	I need to reach out to the proposed bill and change right now, because this subject is settled, and I'm the only one who can't present it directly right now... [[It's not there.]] [[There's an amendment.]] In the amendments? [[In the amendments, in point seven. I think so.]] [[Art. 3.]] [[Art. 3.]] I'm sorry, but I can't find it. [[It's for the Minister.]] Then maybe we can address it to the Minister because I can't find it right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u22	Do you agree with the senator? [[Yes.]] Then you're Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Do we have any insight into today's sports unions and the number of people who work in sports relationships today and who would be subject to this law? It's not the ones that make statements, it's the ones that work today. Do we know how many people that are?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u24	During the committee's work there was no mention of this, so I do not have this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u26	I join the question you asked Senator Majer, because my curiosity is that this bill has not been settled. I'm also expanding my questions. Can a member of the internal control body perform this function when he has previously been convicted e.g. for the use of doping and was therefore disqualified for 24 months? That's the second question. Third question. I would like to know whether the legislators during the committee's work, including the government, were undoubtedly considering a difficult issue. Well, many athletes, who act as activists and at the same time have great achievements, almost by force or under threat of sanctions, have been involved, among others. for Guardian sport controlled by the authorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They've been successful. Under this law, they will, I think, have to, because I think that's the way this amendment provides for them to resign from their duties, endangering their opinion. So the question is: have you considered the possibility of individualising such behaviours? Of course, I think of those athletes who lived exclusively with performance, in the sense of sports career, and who did not stain themselves with any agency activity, whether as a co-worker or as an informer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u27	Mr. Senator, we haven't really talked about the situation you put in your question in detail. I just can't relate to them. However, I would ask you to redirect this question to the Minister, because there was no discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u28	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as part of the continuation of this question... There is a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2007, which states that the functioning of sports unions is not a public function. I'm going back to those wretched serial MOs or LWPs who were just kicking the ball, for example. in the Warsaw Guard or in the Warsaw Legion or in similar Guardian clubs in Poland and it was their only connection with this vertical. Will they also be considered officers of the communist system? Because as to the essence of the bill, of course, we have no doubt, but with ricochet it can strike innocent people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u30	If I may, I'll answer like this. Not all of these people will try to be board members or to perform control functions in the Polish sports union, and if they start, they will have to present their illustrative statement and the decision will be taken. [[No, they can't.]] [[If he was an officer, he can't.]] If he was an officer, of course... [[And Private...]] There was also a question of an analysis, so if such a statement is made, it will certainly also be an analysis of this statement. [[But I don't...]] It's just my feeling.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u32	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Mr. Senator, this is what I say on behalf of many representatives of Poland, outstanding athletes, gold Olympic medalists, who charged in that system only by signing the list, and indeed some of the Guardian clubs were in the Civic Militia, and some of them, as they told me, were also receiving a salary from the Security Service. What will be the situation of those who did not perform, as you know, any functions, but have brought glory to the Polish sport? No one was involved in these cases at the time... Can you explain to me and to the citizens what the situation of these people will be? They're not old people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u33	I can't explain it to you right now. [[That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting?]] I can't...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u34	That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting? Then I will be addressing the Minister in this matter so that I can get a written reply, and then I will have a clear situation. Because in my office... [[The Minister is.]] [[Then let him answer.]] [[And he'll answer.]] Oh, the Minister is. Hello, Minister. You're an athlete, too, and your colleagues... [[But he's too young to remember.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u35	Good. Senator Robert Dowhan will ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u36	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I'll ask you a slightly less controversial point. I was so worried about what's in point 5. It is about introducing opportunities for participation in professional league in team games of clubs acting as limited liability companies. At one time, there was a record that it was supposed to be just stock companies, and this recipe checks out. Many clubs operating within associations, as if they were entering professional league, had to transform or start sports stock companies and contribute considerable capital even a few years ago. And this gave above all such strong foundations for sports activities and activities of the club itself. But on the other hand, acting within public limited liability companies is more responsible, because, as the name says, we have a division into shares. So it's something that's tangible, unlike the O.R. companies, which can be eliminated in a simpler way or declared bankrupt. What is the intention of changing this point?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u37	The proposed amendment will address the difficulties of creating a professional league under the current rule of law. These are the difficulties arising from the insufficient number of clubs operating in the form of public limited liability companies, which depends on the possibility of creating a professional league. Thus, the possibility of creating professional leagues is extended here, so that they can also be created by limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u38	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u39	I'm going back... It's such an important question, it's about correctness. A member of the authorities, i.e. the President of the Management Board, in particular, or a member of the Management Board may not, of course, have shares or shares associated with the performance by the association of statutory tasks in such business activities. But in point 8 lit. and it is said that they may not have any shares in companies governed by commercial law, shares or shares. The question is: do two shares in the PKO bank, the state bank, disqualify to be a member of these authorities or the control body?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u40	The rule states that such a person may not have at all... [[But what's the cause of this...]] And that's enough. [[...that a small number of shares disqualify? After all, it is in the interests of the State that as many citizens as possible acquire shares and shares, including state-owned companies.]] Senator, this is primarily about transparency. So... [[Members and senators can.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u41	Thank you. If there are no further questions, then... [[Yet...]] Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u42	Just to clarify... The Senator rapporteur mentioned that the introduction of the possibility of being a limited liability company gives the opportunity to... I didn't understand. The idea was that more professional leagues could be created or that someplace the professional league is blocked because there are no public limited companies... Can you give examples of the areas of sport where this is happening?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u43	I do not have that accurate information, I can only supplement my statement and say that the introduction of this change makes it possible to participate in the professional league of more sports clubs, which actually function as limited companies. Thus, these clubs are also given the opportunity to participate in the professional league. That's the main rule here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u44	Thank you very much. If there are no further questions, thank you, sir... Oh, and... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u45	Mr Marshal, Minister, Senator rapporteur, I am so encouraged by the votes of the Senators of the Civic Platform who care about Let me get this straight. I would like to ask what was the spirit of discussion at all about this problem in committee. And why am I concerned? I am concerned because many prominent athletes from earlier times were honest people who were not only honest in sports, but also honest with their colleagues. And it wasn't like they didn't read what they signed, but when they were replaced, they didn't sign. And they were honest people. And I would like to speak for those athletes who have never bowed down not only to what is immoral in sport, to doping, but also to... not to inform or not to provide information to the authorities of the security of the totalitarian state. Moreover, I will say that in a new time, in a new, free, independent Poland these people may have other activities, not necessarily have to take up functions in sports relationships. I think there's a spirit, especially among young activists who want to clear themselves of this bad agent's past, which has been a soft landing for many people of secret service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u46	Thank you. I understand the senator was asking about the atmosphere... [[Yes, sir.]] ...and the discussion that took place at the committee meeting. Of course, the committee strongly supported the proposal to eliminate persons who acted as agents and were soldiers or employees, security officers. It was also noted that the mass of athletes was, however, athletes who simply did not let themselves be broken and opposed to this type of activity and mutual reporting. Attention has also been paid This is where Senator Zaryn paid attention. There is also a question of people who are sources of information, personal sources of information which are not specifically included in this proposal. This, too, is a moral argument that should possibly be taken into account in further amendments to this law. Because of a certain truth, which is the basis for all our actions, we should also talk about these things. You can't close your eyes on what happened at that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u47	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u48	Yes. In the light of such a categoric and quite simple, clear question and answer on the issue of illustriousness, I would like to ask another question, preceded by one statement. How they were taken to the army And this law is about soldiers. He was a soldier, a candidate for the army had little to talk about except that he could go to jail if he was scored, e.g. a runner, a Guardian or a military club, and that was quite common practice. But the question is different. With no objection to the need for decommunization, because this bill has such a character... Is it appropriate to make special distinctions, punishing so I would say All those who, when making a illustrative statement, are immediately deprived of their functions, while others, in public life, are more important, e.g. Members and senators shall not be deprived of these functions if they make a true statement... [[Oh, and that's the problem.]] And in other authorities... [[There were shifts.]] Why, Senator rapporteur, it was as if a couple were bent on athletes who were forced to join the army and then by force. Under the threat of disobeying an order, i.e. even a five-year-old prison incarcerated as runners to a Guardian club... And they were soldiers or... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[They don't have to be presidents today.]] [[There's no answer to that, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u49	I just don't want to answer that question, because I think the applicant, the Minister, will tell you more about it. [[You have just answered that it is to purify Poland's life.]] Yes. I'm not backing out of this. [[That's what you said.]] Well, I'm not backing out. The answer was no. You're asking the same question twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u50	Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u51	In fact, I was slightly provoked by my dear colleague, Senator Rusiecki. It may be the result of my question, which the Minister will answer. Mr. Senator, you're absolutely right that the guy who ratted on his buddies is a guy who just embezzled the basic principles of education. But I was talking about people who took salaries by signing contracts. They didn't even realize it was SB. And in the light of these researches or investigations, they've never reported anyone in their lives, which is very easy to prove by checking documents. Aren't these people going to be harmed by these restrictions? That's my question. And that, apparently, is a question for the Minister. The Minister will answer them. [[That's exactly how I feel about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator Rulewski, this bill is generally used to clear the sporting environment, specifically the commanding level, the management level, the secret co-workers and agents. This doesn't apply to people who served in the military, it doesn't apply to private people. [[What do you mean, no? That's what it says.]] I'm really surprised at what you're saying because these issues need to be sorted out. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Does this apply to people who served in the People's Polish Army?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u54	If they were officers... [[No. It's about active duty, about normal people.]] Well, then, no. [[What do you mean, no?]] [[Exactly.]] [[That's where you're wrong.]] No. The bill only talks about officers, possibly employees. [[Let's not make secret co-workers and athletes who seem to have behaved so beautifully, and they were so great, and they were snitches.]] There's no limit to secret co-workers here. [[Mr. Marshal, is there any way to correct this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u56	Senator Dobrzyński addressed me directly and accused me of having no understanding, and here I used the statement which is in the bill. The Act states that a person who was an employee, officer or soldier of the state security authorities cannot serve as a union authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u57	Affirmative. That's the record, and that's how you treat it. [[I.A. Officer...]] [[Involved in military service.]] [[They didn't incarnate to the Military Police.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u58	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Sport and Tourism has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, I would like to thank the Senate Committee and the senators for their constructive work to date on the Act amending the Sports Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 and 1990. It can be said that this amendment is the second major project, after the anti-doping law, which has echoed not only in Poland but also in the international arena, a law that comprehensively regulates the problem of doping and the whole policy related to the fight against doping. One of its main assumptions is the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Agency. The amendment that we are discussing today is a kind of attempt to comprehensive, systemic solution to identified organizational problems of Polish sport. I firmly believe that it will contribute to improving the functioning of Polish sports unions. I will briefly talk about the most important changes, the assumptions of this law. I would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for his thorough discussion of the main points. I'm just gonna talk a little bit about the issues that are most important from the department's point of view. The most important changes contained in the project are due to the desire to increase transparency of the operation of Polish sports unions and prevent conflicts of interest by introducing further restrictions concerning members of the board of the Polish sports union. There is a ban on the role of a member of the management board of the Polish sports union by former officers of the security authorities of the State of the Polish People's Republic, which allows to specify the high ethical and moral requirements of those exercising these functions. It is also important to strengthen the supervision of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism of Polish sports unions, to introduce the possibility for the Minister responsible for physical culture to grant a sports scholarship in particularly justified cases, especially when. a member of the national staff for reasons independent of himself will not obtain a sporting result which entitles him to a sports scholarship and is a prospective athlete who benefits in terms of further success in sports. We also want to clarify the rules on sport scholarships, prizes for outstanding sports achievements and Olympic benefits, as well as professional sports clubs. We also increase the meaning range of the concept of sport in an absolutely symbolic manner. We also want to include competition based on intellectual activity in the broad definition of sport, the aim of which is to achieve a sporting result. This has no legal mark in the sense that it does not open the possibility of establishing a catalogue of additional Polish sports unions. It is such a symbolic bow especially in relation to disciplines such as chess, checkers or sports bridge, in which success is also dependent on good physical condition. This change in an absolutely symbolic way illustrates our efforts to appreciate these disciplines in such a way. It is worth noting that this project was the subject of extensive consultation with representatives of the sports community before submitting the project for public consultation. The scope of this draft law has also been consulted with the Social Council of Sport, whose members are representatives of different backgrounds, the world of science, medicine and sport, which are authorities in particular fields. The project was also submitted for public consultation To all Polish sports unions, the Polish Olympic Committee and the Polish Paralympian Committee, and to selected sports organisations, with a 21-day deadline to express a position, total of up to 97 entities. Many of the comments of the sports community submitted during these consultations have been taken into account in this draft law. The Council of Ministers welcomes the amendments that were discussed on 5 July this year at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to clarify the law. We are also positive about the Senate amendment on tightening the wording of point 7 in Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Sports Act, which creates a new negative premise for the possibility of downloading so-called. Olympic benefits. As a result of this amendment, the Olympic benefit will not be charged by an athlete who has been punished for doping in sport more than twice, regardless of the individual dimension of the penalty. The introduction of such an amendment justifies the necessity of a ruthless fight against doping, as well as the exceptional nature of this benefit, which is intended to honor above all the most outstanding and impeccable ethical attitude of athletes. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let me also refer to the questions that have been addressed to the rapporteur. I want to clarify some of the doubts that have arisen here. I ask you, both in the Seym and here, in the Senate, there is a similar argument that results from the fact that... Well, those who raise such arguments did not fully get acquainted with the draft law and with this regulation. It is about the so-called "wide issue." defusion. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of these people's catalog... The provision concerns officers of the repression apparatus, so-called. SB and UB, and this catalogue very precisely regulates the article. The 5th IPN Act. There's a whole catalog over there. In turn, this argument about athletes who were in the Guardian clubs... Ladies and gentlemen, I'm calming down here. This provision applies only to SB and UB officers. Point 4 in Article. 5 sets out precisely that it is the organisational units subject to the authorities referred to in points (1) to (3) and in particular the units of the Civic Militia for the period until 14 December 1954. Of course, if the athlete was on the militia, military, and not so-called. Esbek or ubek, this provision does not apply to it. This is a matter that the article specifically regulates. The 5th IPN Act. As regards the raised argument concerning some kind of non-constitutionality of these solutions, I would like to remind you that the judgment of the Court concerned the Act on Qualified Sport, which no longer applies. On the basis of this law, Polish sports unions functioned in a different legal form. This provision does not apply to this directory at all. It does not apply to both the requirement of illustrativeness and the issue of exclusion from the boards and the review committees of the officers of the apparatus of repression. As regards the issue of professional leagues and the legal formula, I do not know where both your Members and your Senators come from such a distance to the legal formula of the company. Let me remind you that this formula requires the property liability of the person who manages the company. The very formula of the public limited liability company is not a guarantee of transparency, it is a guarantee that the sports club will function properly in respect of compliance issues or strictly financial issues. This is above all a bow towards the sports clubs. Let me remind you that we are here giving the opportunity to choose a sports union. It's not a mandatory rule, it's some kind of alternative. The club can operate either in the form of a public limited liability company or in the form of a company with an o.o. There are many clubs in the league that face financial problems that have small budgets. The formula of the joint stock company is much more charged to the budgets of the clubs than the formula of the company z o.o., and the formula of the company z o.o. it also ensures transparency and proper control. I will now address the questions raised by Senator Rulewski. Naturally, Ladies and Gentlemen, the restriction related to the shares held concerns companies governed by commercial law, whose activities coincide with the statutory activities of the Polish sports association. A member of the management board of the Polish sports association may naturally own shares of a bank or some companies, but may not own shares of companies or shares in companies which operate in the same area as a given Polish sports association in relation to statutory activities. I'm calming down: this question doesn't apply to the rule. Dear Marshals, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, thank you once again for working on this bill. I firmly believe that it will help to improve the functioning of Polish sports unions. This is the second law, after the anti-doping law, which is very well assessed by the sports community. Another addition to the Sports Act will be the Code of Good Governance in Sports, which we intend to present as the Ministry in the near future. We want it to be a kind of standard determinant, how Polish sports unions should conduct their activities in a complementary way, in financial, training, etc. It's about supplementing the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions about the sports section of the amendment. The bill equips the Minister with such a special tool. The Minister will be able to arbitraryly, I believe, decide to take a national team member's sports scholarship, which has not achieved a certain sporting result. I mean, what criteria are you gonna follow and whether it's gonna be assessed by sports unions. After all, there are hundreds of members of national staff who have not achieved results in various disciplines. That's the first question. The second question concerns the extension of the definition of "sports" to competition based on intellectual activity. E.g. Checkers are to be looked after by the Ministry and are to be classified as a sport whose aim is to achieve a sporting result. If you'd like to say what is the definition of a sports result... What does a sports result mean when it comes to playing checkers or electronic games?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u62	Thank you very much. [[Me too.]] You're welcome, Minister... Or good, maybe they'll have three questions in the group, because there's a lot of questions. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u63	I am familiar with the IPN Act and the life in which a young man, including an athlete, was on the basis of the honorable duty of military service incorporated into various units, had no right to appeal against such an order, among others. was incorporated into the CWB, the CWB, and these units functioned until 1989. And now I'm still working on it. Is the same young man, an athlete, let's say, enlisted in military service, who to choose from either sports, continuing to play sports in one of the Guardian clubs, while serving in the WSW, or failing to play sports in one of the Guardian clubs It decides to do so, but it doesn't stain itself with reporting, co-operation, it won't be able to run for office? And if he's already in those authorities, I understand that the bill doesn't speak, and the Minister hasn't spoken. He's gonna have to give up, exposing himself, let's say, to the public for a negative assessment, because he had to resign because of his cooperation? And second question. As far as I like these solutions concerning the commercial purity of activists, I do not understand why there are strict requirements for board members and presidents, but they do not apply to internal control bodies, even in terms of doping. A member of the club's internal control body may, in accordance with this law, be convicted or disqualified as an athlete for the use of doping. And finally the third question, so quite fundamental. If you accept that the Minister is determined to decommunise, i.e. deny the right to participate in the authorities of the persons referred to by the law, then it is a question of how it can be compared with solutions relating to other important positions in the State, such as the Member, the Senator, the President of the City, I think even the Minister, on whom people burdened with cooperation can function, if they make a real illustrative statement. It does not matter here, because the mere fact of functioning in these entities disqualifies in the area of sitting in the authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u65	I have a few questions, but for now, in the first round, I'll limit myself to one. I will also refer to this provision on intellectual sports. I mean, I'm happy at all, and I support the fact that such a recipe has been found here, that such intellectual professions or associations of people who are passionate about it may be considered to be sports relationships. I'd just like to find out. 'Cause the minister said it had such a symbolic dimension. Who properly and on what basis recognizes which way, so to speak, whether the type of intellectual effort is classified as a sport and which is not. Who decides this and how? Maybe I'll trade... There is, for example. Polish Sports Bridge Association. That's his name. We all know that. Chess We know; we know checkers. Yeah, but for example. sports poker players have been demanding for years to recognize this poker as a sport. After all, there are international poker competitions, world championships, Europe, etc. And they don't play for money. If it arises, for example. Sudoku's sports relationship, is it going to be scored or not? I'd like to know what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u66	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u67	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, as regards matters relating to the possibility of granting a sports scholarship, within the Ministry, within the Department of Professional Sports, a committee will be set up to evaluate these proposals. Of course, it won't be a matter of judgment, that is, the minister's will. It is the experts who will assess the merits of these proposals. As a curiosity, I would like to say that a similar principle, only a little bit in another formula, was in force for the sponsorship project "Team 100" which includes the most talented young athletes in the age range of 18.23. In the Institute of Sport, a unit subordinate to the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, there is a methodical and training team composed of representatives of various sports disciplines, who continuously analyzed the sporting results of these young athletes. On this basis, these people were classified into the narrowest group of those most for a given time, for a given moment, talented. A similar principle will apply when it comes to issues related to sport scholarships. Inside the Ministry, we will set up a committee composed of staff from the Professional Sports Department, which will evaluate and recommend the Minister granting or refusing to grant a sports scholarship. The definition of sport. There have been questions from the senators in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Sports Act, the current rules regulate this in an absolutely precise manner. Polish sports union can be considered... This is about disciplines that are on the official list of Olympic and non-Olympic sports approved by the International Olympic Committee. This is a precise list and on this basis a given relationship can be recognised. If the International Olympic Committee includes additional disciplines on this list, it will create space... it will give the opportunity to register another relationship, to speak to the Minister responsible for physical culture, i.e. the Minister of Sport and Tourism, to register a given Polish sports union. I'm not hiding that we're in the process of analyzing this rule. There's a couple of sports. I'm talking about non-Olympic sports that are not on the list of the International Olympic Committee, but in terms of mass... They are cultivated by a large number of athletes, and by law they may lose their status. We analyze, we are considering the next step in the form of a possible revision of this provision in the perspective of time, the extension of this directory. We are in contact with our fellow sports ministers from all over Europe and we are analysing how this problem is addressed in other countries. Soon we will want to present a concrete solution in this regard. Today, the Sports Act regulates it precisely. The MKO list, Olympic and non-Olympic sports... Only then can you register a given relationship. And there's more to it here. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the need to make representations is concerned... It deprives itself of the function of the person who performed the so-called. Lies in the illustration, which means she didn't give the truth in her statement. The same provision shall apply to other public officials. So this is precisely defined. Therefore, the obligation to illustrate also applies to members of the boards of Polish sports unions. If someone was a secret security officer and reported the facts today, that doesn't rule him out in terms of serving as a security officer. It's not here, I'd say an extension, it's not a novelty in this area. And the exclusion concerns persons who were officers of the repression apparatus under the law. And the recipe also regulates... Since the entry into force of the Act, there have been six months of resignation. If a given officer does not resign, it is an obligation to revoke it, imposed on the Polish sports union. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u68	Thank you very much. Another round of questions, Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will repeat the question asked by the rapporteur. Since this law clarifies the form of disclosure of agents when it comes to Polish sports unions, it means that you knew that in these relationships such an agent functioned. What number of people might this apply to? Are we able to say today that there are some Polish sports unions registered in the Ministry and in these relationships there is a percentage, let's say, 50% people who functioned as part of the PRL security camera? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u70	Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, and then Mr. Professor Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there is a reference to the article in the Act. 5th Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, which refers to state security bodies. I'll just remind you that these are, among other things. Ministry of Public Security, Committee on Public Security, WSW, Border Protection Military Intelligence, Board of Internal Service, etc. There's a lot of that. But I ran out, Minister, of secret co-workers. Because, as I understand it, this article doesn't apply to that. Don't you think there's a lack of logic here? 'Cause it's art. Five... okay, this bill is needed, I'm all for it, of course. But still secret co-workers operate in sports relationships. Why am I talking about this and why am I asking this, Minister? We must remember that all trade unions... all sports unions benefit from the powerful resources of the State Treasury, as well as from the public funds of our local governments. And in fact, it's even, you could say, the only source of their funding. So I'm surprised you didn't... And it would be good in the future, Minister, to improve this bill, to include secret co-workers. But now I'm asking you to tell me why they're not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u72	Thank you very much. [[Thank you, Senator.]] Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask a question following Mr. Borowski's questions. Namely, we received here information practically closing... I mean. Not you, Minister, but a list supervised by another international entity defines sports... But, as you know, it develops dynamically. There are among others. the category we talked about during the committee's deliberations, such as electronic sports. And the question is, is there any chance, is there any demand from Poland to expand this catalogue with a new definition of sports. I understand that this is going somewhere in the direction of the former rebuses, which, of course, is difficult to call intellectual sport... But somewhere there is probably a prospect of such a limit to the sense of the new definition of sport. And my question goes in this direction: is this sense outside electronic sports, or is it already possible to hack into this new sphere of intellectual activity that you could try to put into a sports methodology? That's one question. And the second, too, following in the footsteps of the previous speaker. I would like to attach myself to the question of such a sphere as you have expressed a clear interpretation of this law. Because in the questions of colleagues from the Civic Platform there were a lot of vague words, it is a great request for a clear interpretation. State security... Art. The 5th Act on the Institute of National Remembrance de facto defines a set of these institutions. The Act does not talk about secret co-workers or, more generally, about personal sources of information, and there is no A mechanism which would restrict the candidacy of members of the board of sports clubs in this respect. That's how I understand this bill. I would ask for clarification not to ask unnecessary questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u74	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u75	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, thank you very much for these questions. Ad vocem question on the number of "sorry this colloquialism" so-called. esbek and ubek, who operate on the boards of Polish sports unions, what is the number of... Of course, the Ministry did not carry out such research. But if you touch the moral dimension, that number doesn't matter. We believe that those who manage Polish sports unions shape policies in the field of sport, sport of children and young people, and who should be educators, authorities in this field. Whether they're 1 or 30 or 50, it doesn't matter. Such people, in my deep conviction, must be deprived of the ability to perform these functions. These are those who were officers of the apparatus of repression and who, in our view, should not perform these functions because of this moral dimension. As regards the question of extending the restriction to the so-called. Personal sources of information, OZI, is how you probably know... I humbly accept this remark. I believe that from a moral point of view, it is most reasonable and worth considering. But given the complexity of this process, it is important to examine in greater detail This is in terms of formal law, in terms of the possibility of appeal. And this, unfortunately, is very highly rated. And here there may be some complications in connection with this... Because in the current law there is no way to deprive a secret co-worker of his public functions, who has admitted to the service. If he confessed to it... Well, unless he's committed a illustrative lie, then, as you know, he's no longer performing functions. And here's the same rule. But as far as the possibility of extending this limitation is concerned, it is absolutely undisputed in moral terms. However, it requires a deeper, much broader legal analysis so that this provision is effective and not only a rule in itself, and that it does not cause unnecessary turbulence which could have a counterproductive effect. We will certainly consider and analyse this request in terms of formal law. I am open to such a discussion, to such an analysis, so that it is an effective provision and in general so that perhaps in the near future, as the senator said, it will supplement this law with this provision. [[In this term, Minister?]] We'll see, we'll see. [[I'll hold you to that.]] I think we're definitely going to have a discussion and talk about it. Yes? I believe that the rules that we introduce, the rules on improving the transparency of the functioning of the compounds, must be effective rules, rules that are not only formulated in the law and can function, but above all must be effective. That's the idea we have. And this moral dimension is extremely important here. Please note that in the process of building the position of the Polish sport or cleaning or repairing certain elements that we consider to be wrong, we touch every element of the management dimension, which is included here in the Act on Sport, and this moral dimension, which we have just mentioned, but also the purely sporting dimension, which is the fight against doping. And here, I think, it's all compatible. This is the strategic goal that the Ministry of Sport and Tourism is pursuing. As far as the so-called phenomenon is concerned... about the extension of the definition of sport, as I mentioned earlier, it does not bear legal marks. I mean. Relationships... I have already explained precisely who can start a Polish sports union. So the so-called phenomenon. e-sport... The representatives of this phenomenon can't do that today. Well, unless, at some point, the International Olympic Committee determines that it is an Olympic discipline or it will include it in the Olympic sports list, which is a matter, I think, of the distant future, if at all. But I would also like to say about the symbolic dimension of the fact that we have extended this definition. Today, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve success in chess, sports bridge, checkers, you must actively practice sports sense strictly. Today, the best chess players in the world are people who go to condition camps that are preparing. I have recently had the honor and pleasure of meeting with our bronze medalists of the world championship, the team's bronze medalists of the world championship. This has been the greatest success since the end of World War II in this sport achieved by our athletes. And these are athletes, which is incredibly upbuilding, who do sports, who spend hours at chess training, but also at strict trainings. sports, because there is no way to maintain a certain intellectual condition, mental fitness without physical fitness. And so in an absolutely symbolic way we open up to the so-called environment. e-sport. Today we cannot close our eyes to the fact that there is a phenomenon that is spreading, developing, which will be, whether we wish it or not, developed, also from a business perspective. So far, we've done a little bit of thinking about these young people: you're angry because you're playing on a computer, you should play sports. And perhaps it belongs to this young man to approach in a completely educational manner, completely different pedagogically: if you want to succeed in this manual, intellectual performance, including so-called. e-sports, remember physical activity, because it is an integral element, if you want to be more efficient, faster, better at what you do, then remember to play sports. And this positive element we're also seeing in the so-called phenomenon. e-sports, because these best, most efficient computer players are people who play sports that participate in various kinds of social campaigns that make young people aware that if you're playing on a computer, if you're competing in this area, then you have to play sports, there's no other way. And this is such an absolutely symbolic opening. I do not hide that our task, the task of the resort of sport and tourism is also to educate these young people not on the basis of making them, criticizing them, just saying: if you want to be good at what you do, achieving success, remember sport, about sports sense strictly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u76	Thank you very much. Another round. Member of the Commission, Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u77	I thank the Minister for those explanations, although I believe that he is limiting himself only... I understand that this adoption of the principle that the International Olympic Committee determines which sports are Olympic and which are non-Olympic, i.e., in short, determines what is sport, that is some basis. But this is an international body, working rather slowly, consulting everything with everyone, while there may be current needs. In our country, such or other activities as sport should be considered sport, and that's all. So I think that there is no obstacle to, in the way that I say, internal legislation establishing rules for recognising as a sport of this kind of competition. So much for your attention. And the question is about this conflict of interest. I understand all the intentions behind this. But if I read here that a board member can't be the closest person, so let's say, husband, wife or brother, sister, for the person who owns shares and shares in the company, if that's the end of this record This company is active in the provision of sports services, supplies I'm still able to understand. But also financial or in-kind sponsorship services... Well, we have, for example. such a situation that many companies sponsor various kinds of professions, sports relationships, etc., well, Orlen e.g. is present everywhere, Lotus, KGHM, PKO BP. And now, for example. My brother owns KGHM shares, and I'm on the board of the sports union that KGHM sponsors... But I don't even know that my brother owns the stock. There could be some ridiculous situation here. Unless I'm reading it wrong. If so, the Minister will enlighten me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u78	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm already confused. Please give me a specific answer to that question. If a mirrored person, if the president or member of the board of a Polish sports association makes a statement that he was... Will he still be able to perform functions, as is the case with other areas, or will his career at this point definitely end? And my second question. Why hasn't it been extended to sports cans when it comes to this bill? Well, there aren't as many sports clubs as there are sports clubs, so maybe we could think about expanding the scope of this law in the future. Because everything comes from down there, and down there there are always clubs that focus on sports relationships. So maybe that's where we should look for these people.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u81	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, in this bill... I'm not talking about doping issues or corruption issues in general, but about issues related, let's call it mirroring. There are two matters relating to this law. The first is a ban on office, and the second is a declaration or an obligation to make a statement. Tell me what will be the mode of dismantlement of a person who once was an officer, in the event of the entry into force of this law, that is, we are talking about the facts, already found... Here at the end of the article. 4 is referred to the competent authority, i.e. that the competent authority, in this case the assembly of members or delegates of the Polish sports union, dismisses a member... And if this assembly doesn't cancel, then what? We have had such cases when it comes to local authorities, that the municipalities or other local authorities did not cancel, although they had a duty to do so. That's the first line. And the second point concerns statements. What's the penalty for not making a statement? Where is this sanction specified? Because she's not in the bill, I'd call her mother, which is in the 2006 Act on disclosure of state security authorities documents. There is only a specific sanction in the case of an investigation rather than in the case of failure to make a statement. Thus, the absence of a declaration was left to be regulated under the respective laws concerning the relevant categories of persons. Where, then, is such a sanction with regard to this law in the absence of a declaration?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u82	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u83	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, to be precise, I will say that we are not extending this rule... Once again, I repeat to the senators that if a person makes a statement that is true, he will be able to continue his duties regardless of whether he was a secret collaborator, as is the case with other persons of public trust. There's no distinction here. The illustrious lie will, of course, result in a lack of function. On the issue of extending this provision, including sports clubs, I would like to remind you that the Minister of Sports and Tourism has supervision of Polish sports unions and sports clubs are members of Polish sports unions. We don't have that kind of jurisdiction, there's no legal option... The legal situation of voivodship sports unions in various sports disciplines is quite complicated and here the minister There's no way... there's no supervision of these organizations. Well, from a legal point of view, there's no way to extend this directory. We have supervision of Polish sports unions. As I said before, issues related to officers, which we deprive of being able to sit on boards and internal control bodies, in the so-called. audit committees... Since the entry into force of the Act, there will be 6 months to waive this function. If the individual does not do so, the general assembly will be required by law to deprive him of this function. Ladies and gentlemen, so unfortunately, sometimes in life, the creativity of sports activists, but not only sportsmen, in terms of circumvention of the law, bending of the law or dragging administrative proceedings is unfortunately very large. We also observe this, observing the functioning of Polish sports unions. I would like to say quite seriously here, quite seriously, I have repeated this many times in the media space that the Minister of Sport and Tourism has a certain privilege, which is extremely important. The financing of Polish sports unions is not a right, it is a privilege. The Minister of Sport and Tourism has the right to decide to allocate specific amounts to the functioning of the sport concerned, he has the right to shape the financial strategy of the Polish sports union data. I do not hide that if Polish sports unions do not operate transparently in the sport concerned, they will not comply with the law, then they will simply be limited in funding. This is a sanction which is the best sanction possible and which works perfectly in the countries of Western Europe. I often talk to my fellow ministers from all over Europe. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem of the functioning of sports unions is not the problem of Poland This is the problem of the vast majority of countries. It can be said that there are problems in all countries in some national sports unions. You give money, but not always this money is spent as you wish. Not only in Poland, but also in England, Germany, Austria... This happens in many countries. And this model that funding is not a law, it's a privilege, it's the most effective form of discipline. I'll remind you of last year's situation. In August 2016, we observed two scandalous cases of doping in the Polish Weightlifting Union. At that time we spoke quite strongly and specifically about a significant cut in funds within this competitive sport from PLN 5 million to PLN 1 million, which was a very restrictive Polish Truck Raising Union. I do not hide that this has contributed to a certain increase in the transparency of this relationship. We kind of forced certain procedures that ethically... Of course, we're still watching. I don't want to say... With far-reaching distance, I observe this discipline of sport. However, we are seeing some progress on the issue of this sport. A similar case was with the Polish Tennis Union. I'm not hiding that this kind of model... If we have precise, accurate information about the lack of transparency of the functioning of Polish sports unions, I will not hesitate to use this tool. Thank you very much. [[Bravo, Minister!]] [[May I? Minister, there's another question about these actions...]] Mr. Senator, if you'd just remind me because I missed it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[With the shares held in the bank of PKO...]] [[Voice from the O.R. Orlen's shares...]] Ladies and gentlemen, this provision is not based on a whim, but is related to the phenomenon of circumvention of the laws that we have observed in Polish sports unions. The fact that people close to the board members who have an economic activity in favour of a given sports association was a common thing, was absolutely overwhelming. That's the kind of phenomenon we're cutting through. When it comes to sponsorship, it is an interesting, interesting remark that a given sponsor does not have to designate As you said, Mr. Senator, your brother, but he can designate, for example. the director of the company concerned. This does not exclude sponsorship. If the sponsor wishes to have supervision of a given union, it doesn't rule out having supervision of it, but it doesn't have to be the closest person to a member of the board, if the senator were a member of the board of a given sports union... In this respect, we want to give absolute transparency in this matter... If someone is a member of the management board of the Polish sports union and his person close to him is a fairly broad catalogue of those loved ones It has an economic activity and provides services to a given sports union, that is the behaviour that we can boldly describe as nepotism as corrupt behaviour. This possibility we want to deprive Polish sports unions. [[But, Mr. Marshal, I'm just gonna ask 'cause we didn't get along. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u84	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u85	Minister, let me be clear. As far as the provision of services, supplies, works, etc. is concerned, it is obvious to me. But you did include financial or material sponsorship. So, one more time... I'm gonna clarify the question. That's how I read this recipe... Let's say I'm a member of the board of sports union, right? This sport relationship is sponsored by PKO Bank Polski. Is that okay? [[Maybe.]] Maybe. My brother has shares of PKO Bank Polski. He owns shares. Now I'm going to read the recipe again. Namely, I... Because the above is said to exclude the possibility of acting as a member of the board of the Polish sports association in various cases. And here's the case that says I can't be the closest person And I'm with my brother, aren't I? For a person who holds shares or shares in a company under commercial law, if this company, inter alia. Sponsoring. Well, I read what it says.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u86	In that case, Mr. Senator, it is the duty of a person to give up these actions... [[I see.]] ...closest. And there's a time limit for that... [[But this is]] [[No, it's a matter of transparency.]] No, it's a matter of transparency. [[Transparency.]] [[No, it's... okay, I'll talk about it.]] Transparency. [[Bravo, Minister!]] [[I'm not gonna bother you right now. I was just trying to figure out if it was. You've confirmed it is. Well, if that's the case, we'll discuss it further. Thank you.]] [[Bravo, Minister! You're the best minister.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u87	Thank you very much. If there are no further questions, then... [[They're..]] There are questions. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u88	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, and yet there are these questions, because the Minister's answer was somewhat incomplete. Well, I want this bill to be applicable. You say that in the event that sports unions fail to fulfil their obligation or behave contrary to the law, i.e. e.g. They're gonna appoint a member of the board of directors who has information that she was an officer, so it's gonna be... [[Minister, don't worry. You're the best.]] ...to arrange for the withdrawal of the grant. That's how I figured it out. But this is kind of an indirect road, because there are no sanctions in the bill for that. There may not be any sanctions at all, but we would like to hear it clearly. Another point is that there are certain obligations in the Act. These duties are I don't know what to call it, sanctioned in the event of a situation, that's what the article says. 4. It is a matter of not making a judgment statement in the case of persons who already perform certain functions. The law clearly states that we refer to the article. 21e paragraph. 1 Appraisal Act That's what I'd call it, because it's got a pretty long title, extended. And that's clear. But there is no such appeal, i.e. there are no such sanctions, in the case of what will happen in the future, that is, in the case of material regulations. There are no sanctions for the future in relation to the issue of failure to make a judgment statement. There's a sanction against people who are right now... That's what Art says. 4. However, there is no sanction for the future. Like I said, it's not about making a false statement. That's what the illustrious procedure is about, and that's what the illustrious act is about. But not to make a statement, and that's not what the Mirror Act doesn't do. This leaves specific laws related to functions or positions. I draw attention to the fact that in this case the bill is kind of leaky. Maybe I'm wrong. If so, please indicate exactly where it is written. It's a sanction for not making a judgment statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u89	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u90	There is a proposal in the amendment concerning the interests of the sports union. It is said that a member of the board and a member of the internal control body of the union are obliged to refrain from any activity contrary to the interests of the Polish sports union. It seems quite clear, but especially at the level of board members, seeing the interests of a sports union may be different. And it's different, as the election proves, e.g. in PZPN, so hot; that's when we talked about the interests of the relationship. The question is who will verify what is the interest of the Polish sports union. And who will determine whether the member of the board Finally elected and trusted, among others. To represent the interests of the union, is it against these interests? ♪ I'd be like this ♪ He understood if it were so specific that it was about harm. The damage must be proved, and the concept of business is so broad that this record, as I suspect, Minister, will be dead in the case of an investigation in court.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u92	Minister, I'm trying to ask you these questions. I'm sorry if I'm a little pushy about whether we understand certain rules equally. One thing we've been able to find out, i.e. It's how to understand this recipe, but there's another thing. Senator Dowhan brought it up here. Namely, the Minister was kind to refer to other provisions in terms of illustrative matters, and to say that here the same rules apply, which apply elsewhere, i.e. there are groups of persons subject to a mirror obligation. The other thing is whether they're public or not... The Constitutional Tribunal has spoken on this matter, but I don't want to go back to that. You want to be under the responsibility of mirroring board members, review committees, etc. Good. The general rule is that if someone made a false illustrative statement, it loses its function. The Minister has confirmed that this is the way it's supposed to be. Yeah, but I'm reading something completely different here. I read that a member of the board will not be able to be a person who was an employee, an officer or a soldier of the security authorities And that's it. There's nothing about the person who made the false corroboration statement. And that's how it's supposed to be formulated. Another provision obliges us to make a statement, and in this provision we would say that a person loses his function if he made a false statement. I'd still understand, but it's not, you just talk about the person who was... And that is kind of a fundamental question: why does the Minister say otherwise? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Now I'm just gonna wait a second. Senator Żaryn will explain to the Minister why. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Then why do you claim otherwise, even though the text shows it? And just so you know, questioning... Indeed, Art. 5 lists all these organisational units. Among them are those in which there is no doubt I have no doubt about it. No athlete was employed. But what in the case of e.g. Military I.A., I.A.? They were soldiers. And here it is said that if anybody was a soldier there, that includes him. But maybe he was just hired... Well, I mean, he was taken into the army and he had there, in this I.A., so-called. The job, but in fact, he was doing something completely different. So if this happens, we're just gonna hurt a man. He can be a very experienced athlete or activist for years, and then all of a sudden he's said, "Oh, that's not gonna happen anymore." But this is an additional question, and the question was mainly different, namely: why this discrepancy between the clear text And the interpretation... I mean, I wish there was an interpretation that the Minister told me about, but I don't see her here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u93	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u94	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, if this representative, a member of the board, doesn't fulfil the obligation of illustriousness, he will violate the provisions of the law. And the Ministry will also have the right under this law to repeal the decisions of choosing a particular individual as a member of the Management Board. As regards the failure to comply with the formal obligation to lodge a judgment on time, this is governed by another provision. Here there was often such an argument, completely wrong that... Therefore, in this amendment of the Sports Act we return to the solution which was in operation in the Act on Qualified Sport, namely to the solution which will enable us to control the internal regulations and statutes of Polish sports unions, to control how much they respect the rules they have established for themselves. I stress clearly that we as a resort do not interfere in internal regulations, training plans, regulations, statutes of Polish sports unions, but we will have the opportunity to check how relationships comply with the rules that they have established themselves. And that's an extremely important record. As I said before, not to make a statement on time will result in... This is very precisely regulated by the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities. This is not in the Sports Act, because these records and their consequences are precisely regulated in the Second Act. Because I would like to remind you that the amendment that we are talking about in the course of the amendment to the Sports Act is also an amendment to the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents, and that is where the precise consequences of what would have been, for example. the public officer concerned, the senator, the Member concerned has not made a written declaration or has made it contrary to the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u95	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law is indeed very interesting from the point of view of its main objective, which is, as I understand it, in fact to raise ethical standards in Polish sports unions, and these ethical standards can be seen especially in two areas. The first area is a widely understood transparency, so legally designed to reduce it because, of course, it cannot be eliminated 100%. Corruption temptation. And this is the sphere that, of course, is insanely important. The second sphere, undoubtedly closer to me because of my own interests, is the sphere of ethical standards in the historical sense, in the past, that is, a life story that a person does not change anymore. Alternatively, it can only be prevented from performing important functions, because its CV was not positive in the history of Polish society. I see, of course, some inequalities and weaknesses in what has been proposed, and this has also been raised here. Namely, I have no doubt, unlike the Senators of the Civic Platform, that the record that says that according to the understanding of the article. The 5th National Remembrance Institute Act should be excluded from the union boards and other sports union bodies of former employees, officers and soldiers of state security bodies, most likely to serve for at least a slight change in the boards. And my consciousness as a historian It tells me that it will be a largely cosmetic change, Minister. This will be a cosmetic change, because it is not athletes who should be the most subject to possible verifications from a deubecious point of view, and above all sports activists who also have their history, who today belong to my generation and the older generation, and who started to be activists in the 1980s. They didn't have to be security officers, because everyone has a choice, but they were usually just personal sources of information, which is, by the way, agents, secret co-workers. If I see a memo from the 1980s about an interview, namely Department I, or a counterintelligence, which is Department II, informing the head of the Ministry, what is the composition of the delegation to the South Korean Olympics, to the Seoul Olympics, and I have statistics that there are dozens or dozens of activists on the crew, and I have a column next to that, how many of them are secret co-workers of these two departments, and it says 100% I mean, it's the same number, they were all just there. Their task was among others. surveillance of those athletes who were exposed to possible talks with foreign clubs, with various external actors. Here, in fact, is the main problem. That is why I believe that it will no doubt be necessary sooner or later to amend this law, to improve in the spirit of equalising the de facto ethical task of this law. And I would really encourage you to do that. And of course, the other side of the medal has... I mean, not a medal. The other side of the real conflict will have weapons in its hands, and therefore it is undoubtedly necessary to prepare for this. E.g. Senator Czerwiński was very right to ask the Minister what are, in fact, the instruments in the existing act of illustrative, which create the possibility of building a set of sanctions in connection with the failure to fulfil the obligation of illustrative. I remind you of a case of sleep. Professor Bronisław Geremek, who refused to make a judgment statement. But it turned out that there are no sanctions in Polish legislation. And it's not because it was an outstanding character, it's because there's no instrument for it. That, of course, is a problem, but... for you, Minister, this is a real problem, and for legislators. That's us. It's a problem not to make your job difficult. So that we should be able to change the illustrative bill in order to help you. And I think it's really worth it, because this bill you're proposing is certainly not the last one on this issue. In a moment, we will have more to talk about the ethical side of public life. As I say, raising ethical qualifications, we will be faced with the same legal provision. The question is whether only the officers of the security authorities that are widely understood today should not participate in public life by performing important functions in it, or, depending on this harmful ethical public life, there should not be rules on co-workers of the security authorities as well. As you can imagine, I am at least in favour of aligning these two categories, although I understand that it is not easy from the point of view of execution and taking away possible tools from opponents who, of course, will seek these tools. I would like to say one more thing that raises my doubts about this bill. They were presented here and by Senator Czerwinski, and others. Namely, the question is whether there is a fear that this law, because it cannot necessarily act backwards, will be understood as being in force from the next term of office, cannot be applied immediately. These solutions may be reflected more strongly in the implementing regulations which could lead to a possible improvement in the scope of the tasks arising from the entry into force of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The bill we're discussing is important. It does not only concern changes related to the articulation and decommunization of Polish sports unions, there are many other important changes in it. I would like to draw attention to the area covered by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, in particular on the issue of penalties for athletes who have used doping. It should be noted that Poland is the leader in the fight against doping. The Minister is the only representative of Europe on the global anti-doping committee. That is why these important records, which we presented at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which the Minister also mentioned. I would like to make a brief reference to these constitutional doubts. Well, we move on a completely different legal basis than the ones that were in force when the Constitutional Tribunal dealt with this case. There is no doubt that sports unions are not ordinary non-governmental organisations governed by their laws, acting on the basis of association law, that they are ordinary or registered associations. They draw substantial funding from the state budget, as the Constitutional Tribunal mentions in that judgment, saying that sports unions have no relation to public authority or to the management of municipal property or property of the State Treasury. But here, as you can see, there's a relationship. In addition, it must be noted that the fact raised by the Constitutional Court that these associations are formed as associations or associations of associations... This has changed at the moment, and there are appropriate records in this bill. Of course, unions are obliged to comply with certain provisions of the Associations Act, but they are kind of different legal entities. Anyway, I have to say, I'm a little surprised to learn that such conditions come here, not that other conditions that this law creates are being raised. The legislator has the right to impose ♪ and impose ♪ Some requirements, e.g. the fact that the function of a member of the board cannot be combined with work for the ministry. Although it didn't bother anyone. It's true, isn't it? It can also be said here that this is a restriction for those who do not perform public functions. You can also give further examples. There was a case of action raised here, it is a very detailed matter, but there are many other issues here, for example. Combining this function with the function of the national team trainer, etc. So you can see that such conditions can be imposed. But one of them raises doubts here. I have to say, maybe I'll go back to the anti-doping business. During the committee meeting, I tabled an amendment, which was supported and accepted by the committee, but during the discussion the Legislative Bureau pointed out that the proposed amendment was somewhat imperfect because it did not contain the introductory provisions concerning the current situation. At the committee meeting, I made a commitment to prepare and submit such a supplement. What I am doing here by making corrections to the hands of the marshal. Of course, this group of amendments concerns restrictions on those who used doping. We know that there are different situations where someone won a prize or a medal, and then it turns out that there was cheering, then the order of the prized changes... This case is quite complex, so these amendments describe it. I also have to say... Because this is where the senators spoke about the Army Internal Affairs, saying that they were ordinary soldiers. Maybe I'll read something from Wikipedia for the first time. Although I don't use it as my only source. It is clearly stated here: The Military Internal Service, a special military service, which is an institution of military counterintelligence, is recognised as a State Security Authority. So they weren't just regular soldiers. But, as you can see, our debate in the Senate has its rights and we accept it with the benefit of inventory. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dowhan. [[Voice from the room: No, Wach, Senator Wach.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Wach. Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would actually like to say two things, one of which I think is important. It is about the constitutionality of the solution presented. And the other for less important, with less weight. The latter was actually included mainly in the questions, among others. Mr. Senator Borowski, regarding the extension of the definition of sport. As far as the bill is concerned, her intentions are probably right. I would just like to say first of all that regulating morality by law is questionable and ineffective. That's it, in general, because ethics and moral matters were actually always mentioned here. In fact, I would like to refer to the case raised by Senator Wind, and before that, the Minister also spoke about it, i.e. The point is, as for constitutionality, there's no doubt about it. Well, these doubts are. These doubts were initially raised In my opinion, it is well justified by the opinion of the Legal Office of the Sejm, and then repeated in the opinion of our Legislative Office, adding nothing specifically. In my opinion, the essence of the matter is that Art. 2 of the proposed law extends the list of public officials who are subject to mirrors by two categories. A member of the management board of the Polish sports union is mentioned in item 60, and this is debatable, and in point 56 of the Minister responsible for physical culture. There's no doubt about the minister here. Such an extension may be introduced because he is a public official. It's never been questioned. But a member of the board of the Polish sports union... This case was settled by the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2007. The verdict was specific to this case, even though it was filed under another law. Of course, the basis is here, I would say, the legal formula of sports unions, so associations, possibly associations. If we wanted to achieve an effect, let's call it illustrative in relation to the persons concerned, i.e. members of the board and bodies controlling sports unions, it would have to be achieved by a different method, more complicated than adding them to the list, contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal, members of the board of the Polish sports union. I say this, abstracting from whether this case is right or wrong, and whether it concerns a couple or a lot of people. You can't do that. Judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal must not be treated selectively. And that's why I don't think this bill can, shouldn't be adopted. Now I'm going to the second small point. My doubts and questions aroused This was also the case in the debate in the Sejm. An extension of the definition of sport. The Minister said very fluently here that it matters, I would say, prestigious, forward-looking. It doesn't really matter right now. That's not what I want to say. What is written in the Act, namely that sport is also considered to be competition based on intellectual activity, the result of which is the achievement of a sporting result, that is, in my opinion, tautology: sport is defined by a sports result and sports result as a result achieved in sport. It just doesn't make sense. And that's why the Minister couldn't really say anything more here, except for the specifics on the Olympic and Non-Olympic Sports List. This is a comparatively unskillful, non-specific and non-answerable way to answer important questions, e.g. on a very sensible question about whether competitions more intellectual than manual, consisting in playing computer games and properly organized, can be called sport or not. But that's basically a margin. The essential thing here is that the bill under review, in my opinion and not just in my opinion, also in the opinion of people, I would say, more serious and more familiar with all this, is unconstitutional and should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to say a few words as a practice. I haven't had the same sporting success as the Minister, but of course I have played sports and practiced sports until today, even though I have a minor injury to my health. Several years ago, I focused on running a sports club called Falubaz Zielona Góra, a dross club. At that time everything was still functioning on the basis of associations and the Polish Motor Association, as a model of the association of football, established the first professional league as a separate company, and sports clubs aspiring to this company had to establish sports stock companies, although the establishment of a sports joint stock company was at the expense of many times higher than today. Let me remind you that today, in order to establish such a company, a contribution of PLN 100,000 is needed. A few years ago, you had to have half a million zlotys. And a joint stock company from the company of O.O. I asked questions about this, because as a practice, I want to get the Minister to change and make an amendment. It differs in a fundamental way. I'm already skipping the baskets of assumptions, although the cost of assumptions is many times lower, because today it is 5 thousand PLN. But a joint stock company has more grounds for a sport club to be run reliably. Of course, there are people everywhere, and it's at the end that people decide what's going on. It cannot be assumed today that if there is a public limited company, it will not fail or pay benefits to coaches or players, but there is certainly a greater probability, because there is a division into shares, somewhere at the end is assigned the owner and there is always this legal personality. Minister, I'm sure she's different from the company we can call for PLN 5,000. You can appoint a board of directors, people who don't have much to say when it comes to sport or activity, and then you only have to report bankruptcy to court in time to avoid being prosecuted by law. As far as share companies are concerned, there is a different process and a different responsibility. It's something that really works in sports. These stock companies are functioning. I wouldn't change that. That's the role of the man who ran the club for 15 years. To this day, this company exists. On the basis of dross sport I can say that there are companies with a better or worse level of funding from different sides, but this works out. I wouldn't have introduced it today that you could or couldn't... It's either that or everyone's setting up shares companies equally... This is how it's done today, and I haven't heard that there's any problems that somebody would be picking up. And if it were the Minister's will, I would ask very much... Because a fellow Wind had tabled an amendment, so the committee would still have to meet. I didn't ask questions about cheering, but I want to congratulate you on what happened. We have a really great bill on anti-doping, and it works. Sometimes you hear about bad situations when it comes to doping. I'm just surprised why this criterion is 24 months old when it comes to the functioning of those who have received this doping. This is already a high level of suspension, because 2 years suspension. It really must have been someone who drugged himself pretty good. Sometimes you get random consumption of something, and then it turns out it's not allowed, but these are trace amounts. And if someone is doing this on purpose, then, I think, he should no longer participate in any dimension, whether it be sport or activity, because he is no authority at all. But if there's actually a mistake and these restrictions are... the Commission's going to give you a year... I believe that such a criterion should also be adopted here. Unless there are others we don't know about... because those weren't questions. If so, I agree with that, of course. I'm a little out of line with what we're discussing today... I had a chance recently to have dinner with our top tennis player. To my surprise, from the entire menu card that was available at the restaurant, she barely chose anything. All the time the questions were: what oil is added to the salad, on which oil is baked, from which breed is the meat? It practically ended up drinking fluids. That's the responsibility. Those who guard themselves will never make that mistake. But also the ministry on their sides, the anti-doping committee, and we... At the club before the season we have a meeting with the players. We invite doctors and explain to players how to eat, what to pay particular attention to. We're giving you a list of prohibited substances. So I think today it's so public and common that you can avoid it. And if someone didn't get away with it, it's a life-long consequence. I think these 24 months are too long. Mr. Marshal Borowski raised an action case here. In fact, it's quietly, abstracting from certain things that can be called, I don't know, the arrangement that somebody's got, family and business connections, but here I don't quite understand... If he's a sponsor and he's giving money, he's just giving it. It's not like it's a deal. And even if there's a deal, a deal like that that someone likes the discipline and gives more support, I'm talking mainly about the Treasury companies, we can't shut up... I don't know, my brother, with whom I can have terrible contact, doesn't have any money in the bank, and he could have bought himself in a public offer. Like each of us, it is possible to make a daily purchase either by itself or through a bank, through funds, where a person does not even have an influence on what shares the fund buys, not necessarily the companies of the Treasury. So somebody in my family that I might not have a clue about, might have some stock, I don't know, shares of KGHM, KGHM is financing the biking, and my friend or my son is gonna be doing the biking and it's gonna be a big deal because my brother has a couple of KGHM shares, Lotus or other companies... I think it might complicate things a little bit, then there'll be unnecessary translations, wondering why it happened. I know that this provision in general sense is good, of course it is about transparency and I agree, but there are such spheres that sometimes one has nothing to do with the other. You'd have to think about it so you don't just fire a baby with a bath and accuse someone because someone in the family has something out there, and the sport is so funded. I would like to make these two amendments, one concerning the fact that there are no companies in the O.R. and the other on the fact that this period is 12 months. Minister, it's been 10 years since you got the best time for 400 meters, 46.11. It was in 2007, time flies fast. [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Witold Bubble: Thank you.]] Such successes in healthy sport I wish all athletes and those who play sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I speak, even though I am no longer of a sporting age, or even of an activist, and this is because the bill contains elements that result from my life experience. Regardless of this, I claim to be a fan, and it is an armchair fan, to evaluate this law. I'd like to wish you a lot of good, Minister. You're known to be a four-footer, and a four-footer is such a quadruple sprinter. There's no bigger sprinter than a four-hundred-footer, because he has to run 4 times 100 meters, while others only have to run 100 meters. [[Hurry up.]] A little faster, yeah, a little faster. Now it's almost evening out. But I'm getting back to the subject. I want to wish it on you because you're trying with this bill. You've done this before as an athlete or restore the good name of sport, which has caused, among others. The fact that we sat independently of the system with the same expectation of a beautiful sports spectacle. Today, I am watching large financial, television, or even political corporations compete with each other. That was the case, among other things. during the communism period, when sports were not only sports, but political or even ideological. Today, of course, this ideal cancer is cheering. The Lord draws attention to this in this law, but not quite; here I will begin with a certain attention. Because if the whole world has taken up this difficult task today of limiting, I understand, and fighting doping, then the inconsistency in this bill is that the activists who do not have to be... If you set high moral requirements for activists, then why do you allow an activist to be an athlete who's been doping? The question is, is this activist who shapes the face of sport when we set him high demands, which I'm going to talk about here later, these, I'd say, systemic or anti-Ubec... He may have been an athlete who was disqualified for at least 24 months. It's a very harsh punishment. For cheering. I just don't think he should be an activist. He may go astray as an athlete, but he can't be an activist anymore. Second question. We have a Minister of Sport, but this is not common, and I think it is quite rare that there is a Minister of Sport in the countries, but I do not intend to call you off or even destroy this function. Now that it's there, for the good of, say, our reality, let's keep it. But I think your look in this bill, maybe not the last one, is too short. Sport is primarily shaped in schools, by activists, especially at this basic level, requiring effort, sacrifice, effort, and above all passion. But among the prizes, in a rich set that you have, and which I praise, I don't see any prizes for these people. There are badges, and it is allowed that local governments will help, but the Minister is already avoiding it because he only wants to give awards to the Olympics, champions, world recordmakers. And that's my second point of view, to see the efforts of these activists, all the way to the coaches. And I think I'm finally gonna get to the subject that caused that here... And of course, Minister, I wish you, in a duel with almost all, I believe, the world is trying to separate business from sport. You're trying to do it, but you've already come to such perfection that I'm really going to avoid everyone... or I'm going to be avoided by every brother, sister, friend who... Because I have a few shares of PKO BP, and I'm afraid that even the stadium won't let me in, because sometimes I get free tickets and I think it'll be considered a political sponsoring of the owner of probably 10 or 20 shares of PKO... Besides, I can see how weak these stocks are... [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Witold Bańka: Sell.]] They're weak because they're weakening. And I say this because unfortunately this sport is in Poland, and not only, controlled by great, shady, and not only shady, business and there are political, territorial, local and other factors here. And as for the basic subject... Well, there's no Professor Wind, I rarely teach Professor Wind, but I thought Professor Wind would brag. not only Wikipedia, in which he read that WSW is special service. But in special service, as in the world, soldiers or soldiers serve, because today they are all professionals. And you can see Professor Wind is far from life because he didn't notice that in past times these soldiers were incarnate and their only response could be exposure to arrest if they didn't come in due to an order, and here the threat was up to five years. So it was a special service, yes, rightly the IPN treated her as a service, but that doesn't mean that everyone who served there was an officer and a soldier serving this evil cause. And please, Minister, don't take that statement into account... Because I was caught and imprisoned by internal service, but not for political reasons, but for example. Because I ate an apple on the street. But it's an anecdote. There was also a second view that the Constitutional Tribunal considered that activists were not officers. It's true. It's just that I'm picking up a little bit here for Senator Czerwinski, too. This bill doesn't require... this bill is not a law that has an illusory record. Especially in the article on the so-called. a mirror complex... This law is decoupled. Because by the power of belonging to some service It doesn't matter, let's not judge now how they have been defined. The person concerned is either removed from the current composition of the authorities or in the future. And there's nothing to do with it, among other things. The ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which concerns the functioning of the Illustration Act, the essence of which, as Senator Borowski has rightly pointed out here, was by no means belonging to a specific service. Its essence was to bear witness to the truth. And here we're not talking about the testimony of the truth, we're talking about the resume, and as a result... Some people were the strength of the various security agencies incorporated into the organizational units. There have been times when I.A.S.W.s have been wandering, also by order, to the S.B. And there were times that athletes, let's say, a few who wanted to surround themselves with successes, took part in their units. It's even Stalin's son who built the power of a Soviet slag, isn't it? [[Right.]] Because he wanted to show that Stalin's son could do something. And these drossmen would probably be persecuted here under this bill. And what did they have to say in this Soviet Union? I suspect they praised Stalin for not having to guard political prisoners out there in the marshals. So that such a misunderstanding of things that this law is decommunizational, and so... Minister, and here you demonstrate the strength and resilience of a four-hundred-metrer, during this debate proves that no one is right, but you are right, because this law does not extend, but is a normal act of illustration. Well, I'm telling you, as a 400-meter man, but a politician, that this law extends powers and for the first time introduces an element of decommunization. Otherwise, I'm not going to argue with it. And here is a note to Prof. Zarin, to the Senator of the rapporteur: if we accept such philosophy, such optics, that, as some say here, after all such a soldier, a candidate, actually a drafter That's what it was called. He could choose, what are we talking about as evil? So was this Polish People's Republic a bad thing when it was possible to choose military units, party membership, work? This is freedom. If there was freedom, then there was democracy. Democracy is always accompanied by privacy. Then why did we turn this country over if it was allowed... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm trying to say it. Already, Mr. Marshal, thank you for your attention. The fact that this system was totalitarian, however, that it forced something, that the individual meant little or nothing, especially in relation to military obligations. And don't accuse the Platform that we're trying to defend the ubeks again. We're trying to defend the victims of vileness. And the last sentence. If that's the case, Professor Żaryn, then why aren't these... The ones you're talking about, those activists who weren't co-workers, didn't even serve in WSW or security bodies, but reported, reported where, what athlete, who you're meeting at the Korean Olympics, Rome or Munich... That's what the state doesn't write about in this bill. I'm not accusing them of being like that or of being your friends.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u105	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I prepared for myself at the points what I wanted to say, and with a certain Well, I don't know what emotional state you're referring to here. A disappointment... although no, I think I was pleased... it was such a mixture... I found that Mr. Senator Rulewski discussed each of the points carefully and said exactly what I wanted to say... So that's all I wanted to say. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u107	I inform you that the list of speakers... has not been exhausted. You're still the senator. [[In response to this...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I only ad vocem the statements of Senator Rulewski. I can say clearly, I think, what I'm going to say is in line with my views both today and in the early 1990s, which is the most important thing in this case. That I was, I am, and I will be a man who obviously would like to have a full decommunization in Poland that would eliminate any ethical and intellectual formations in people, those affected by Sovietization. Unfortunately, our national elections in the 1990s caused the decommunization not to take place. Therefore, in the context of perhaps internal injustice, we choose partial solutions, since we are no longer given a complete solution. But that does not mean that we forget about other groups whose members should also be de facto eliminated from public life, because there is no obligation to perform important public functions, that is the privilege of social trust. Undoubtedly, such a privilege should not be given to people who have created to any extent, from agents through SBs to members of the PZPR, a communist system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u109	Thank you, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak again? No one's checking in. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Wind and Senator Dowhan. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration... [[Voice from the room: No, now... because there were conclusions...]] [[Minister.]] I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: It's clearly the government.]] Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. I will also allow myself on these statements, questions and opinions that have emerged, to supplement certain information, I think that the important ones that affect the issues of anti-doping and doping policies, including those famous 24 months, so that you ladies and gentlemen of the senators do not think that the Minister of Sport and Tourism is just punishing, just wanting to tighten up the rules and to deal very rigorously with certain cases. I would like to point out and remind you that over the last months, years, the World Anti-Doping Agency has made anti-doping legislation very tight. It's true about what the senator said, 24 months. Yeah, that's right, a few years ago, 24 months ago, that was the toughest penalty for using, you could say, the heaviest drugs, anabolic steroids. Today, for 2 years, there may be a disqualified player who did not use anabolic steroids, but used so-called. contaminated conditioner. This does not change the fact that he did wrong, but it may be the result of some kind of far-reaching recklessness or irresponsible behavior. We don't want to... You have to approach each case very individually. You probably know the case of one of the athletes who received a reprimand for using a conditioner that was a normal conditioner and which could be bought in a sports store. The composition of this conditioner was not a strictly forbidden substance, but it was a derivative of this substance. And for that too, there is a risk of disqualification. So you have to approach each of these cases very individually. Today, when a 4-year sentence... this is a sanction that threatens to use anabolic steroids. This is the hardest sanction that we can say, given the sports conditions, is a life sentence, because if a professional athlete can't play sports for four years... I think it's rare for a person like that to go back to active sports, and if he comes back, he certainly isn't as successful as he used to be. Four years is too long a disarm with sport, so you can talk about some kind of life sentence. That's why it was necessary, given all the circumstances... This is a very complicated process. As I mentioned earlier, today you can be disqualified for using various types of substances. We try to approach each case very individually. Some kind of temporal cesarea must have been here and that's why 24 months. As for the technical issues, I will say that all the solutions contained in the bill... is 6 months to comply with the new regulations. If you have shares or shares, this is the right time to sell those shares and to comply with the provisions of the Act. On the issue of the amendment proposed here, relating to the company's formula. And a joint stock company, I would like to make it clear that this is not a compulsion. or a mandatory solution. This is giving Polish sports unions some kind of freedom, decision-making opportunities in this area. Except for this one. I'll remind you. The licensing requirements of Polish sports unions are also regulated here. So it is such an opening of the gate for Polish sports unions, for sports clubs. It's not a solution that's gonna force someone to do something or turn the whole puzzle upside down. It is not going to be that stock companies will now change into companies from o.o. I do not quite understand the reluctance to the formula, which is the company of O.O. I would like to remind you that in the public limited liability company there is no liability with its own assets for errors in management, and in the company with o.o. It is. That's a sure... This formula, in my opinion, forces people who manage the company, with far-reaching caution in the provision of funds. And it's not a formula that's not transparent. As I mentioned earlier, there are many companies in O.O. which function very well. I think that the law regulates very well how these companies are to operate. The very formula of the public limited liability company does not guarantee transparency, transparency. It all comes down to what the senator said. Everything really comes down to people here, how they manage. The introduction of this provision is an opening to the possibility of setting up companies. in professional leagues and giving freedom, bowing down to sports clubs facing financial problems. As for the issues related to the prizes for trainers and activists, the Ministry has the opportunity. [[Teachers.]] We even have programs like this, Mr. Senator. I must tell you that this year, the odds of any prizes for coaches are higher for athletes than those from previous years. There is also a special programme for the Ministry has a budget of about PLN 1 million in which we award prizes to sports clubs for competition. The awards go to clubs and are received by club activists. It is a kind of award for good management of clubs and for the results of sports that activists receive. So it is not true that the Ministry does not award awards to athletes and trainers that it does not appreciate their activities. It's the opposite. That's our philosophy. We've been very open to the environment of players and coaches. They also speak openly today about the fact that they are highly appreciated. I think the financial conditions we're presenting to them are sufficient. As to the issue of the broad-based dezubecisation, I would like to clarify something here. Of course, it's a recipe... I am aware of the history of this record. This is the first such solution, the first record that deprives the function of persons who were officers of the apparatus of repression SB and UB. That's not the solution so far. This is the first such recipe and I am proud of this solution. I'm glad we made that recipe. I hope that he will significantly increase the level of functioning of Polish sports unions in the moral, ethical dimension. As I mentioned earlier, people managing Polish sports unions... Given the value of sport, the fact that sport is an area of life that we have been talking about here, that it is able to build a national community and create an atmosphere of community and that it is an excellent educator of children and young people... Therefore, sports unions should be managed by those who are authorities and do not have cards in their past that they should be ashamed of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u111	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held from the end of the Senate meeting. I declare the Senate adjourned until 3 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 51 to 15 minutes 03]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extending the recess by 15 minutes until 15.20. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 03 to 15 minutes 20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let's resume the session. I propose a change to the agenda, namely that we now move on to the third point and then to the fifth, sixth and seventh points. Are there any objections? No one's checking in. Well, then... [[When's the vote?]] [[And when's the vote?]] The votes will be held at the end of the session. [[Finally.]] [[Voice from the room: And it was supposed to be...]] Yes, because the second point is not going to be discussed now, so there will be no vote. We'll move on to further deliberations... [[That's right after point five at the earliest.]] Yeah, at the earliest. [[Voice from the room: And by then it will be...]] Well, since I don't hear anyone commenting, we're going through... [[Excuse me. When's the second point?]] [[Voice from the O.R.: After point five.]] [[When the time comes.]] This will be announced as soon as possible... Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering item three of the agenda: the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 535 and the Commission's reports In prints No 535 A and 535 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! At its meeting on 28 June 2017, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development bowed to the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and certain other laws. This law aims to implement the 2014 European Parliament Directive, which requires Member States to regulate the functioning of third-country workers as seasonal workers. The Committee on Agriculture has always been very keen on this issue, because in the broad sense of agriculture, gardening, fruit and vegetables, as we well know, the work of people from third countries, mostly our eastern neighbours, is important, it is important for the operation of many farms, for the real functioning of those areas of agriculture that consume a lot of work, require physical work, and these are primarily productions related to soft fruit and vegetable production. The Commission heard information from the Minister from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, who outlined the bill and informed the committee that the law had been negotiated extensively and prepared in some way in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Many of the provisions of the Act are intended to arrange the functioning of third-country workers in our legal system, especially in relation to contracts of employment, how these workers are to take up work in Poland, for what period, etc. It regulates statements which in many cases have been abused, statements made by employers if they have expressed their willingness to employ foreigners. These issues have not yet been settled. The provisions of the new law are to regulate, clarify and enter into force on 1 January 2018. As members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, we have also obtained the assurance that the act of the law will be monitored on an ongoing basis and if there are any problems with this, it will be an appropriate response, as I said at the outset. These are very important changes in the operation of many farms in connection with the work of seasonal workers. The bill didn't create any major discussions. The Commission took care of the law quite early and still had the opinion of the Legislative Office. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy an opinion on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other laws, print No 535. The bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers. It aims to implement European Union law and implement into the Polish legal order the provisions of Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as a seasonal worker. According to Art. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Directive Member States were required by 30 September 2016 to adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with it. The draft law was addressed to first reading at the Sejm meeting and then to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Out of the 36 amendments tabled in the second reading, Members accepted 12, reducing, among others, the amount of fines for infringements of the employment promotion law and the labour market institutions. 350 Members voted in favour of the bill, 62 opposed it and 32 abstained. As Stanisław Szwed, Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, explained at the meeting, currently there are no detailed arrangements in the national system for the performance of seasonal work by foreigners. There is also a lack of regulation regarding the rules for registration of declarations of intention to entrust work to a foreigner and provisions providing for the possibility of refusing registration. In accordance with the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions adopted by the Sejm, the permit for seasonal work is to be issued by an old-timer competent because of the seat or place of residence of the person entrusting the work to a foreigner. In the event of a change in the characteristics of the old town due to a change in the place of residence of the entity entrusting the performance of work to the foreigner, the property of the old town to conduct proceedings for the renewal of the seasonal work permit shall be determined at the date of submission of the application for the renewal of the permit. Starosta is to consider applications for a seasonal work permit taking into account the priority of foreigners who have worked for the entity on the basis of a seasonal work permit at least once in the last 5 years prior to the application. In cases which do not require investigation, the Starosta shall either enter an application for a seasonal work permit in the records or decide not to grant a seasonal work permit within 7 working days from the date of submission of the complete application and in cases requiring such proceedings. - within 30 days of the date on which the application was lodged. If the application for a seasonal work permit has been entered in the register of applications, the permit for seasonal work will be issued in the district of the foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland on the basis of a visa issued for the purpose of seasonal work or as part of a visa-free movement, provided that the person entrusting the work presents the relevant documents. According to the law adopted by the Sejm, the permit for seasonal work will be issued for a particular foreigner. It will indicate: the person entrusting the work, the lowest salary, the working time or the number of working hours per week or month, the type of contract underlying the work and the period of validity of the permit. If the permit applies to the work of a foreigner as a temporary worker, the employer will also be specified in the work permit. In accordance with the provisions of the Act, an entity entrusting the performance of work to a foreigner on the basis of a seasonal work permit may entrust him with work other than that carried out within the framework of the activities laid down in the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister responsible for Labour in agreement with the Minister responsible for Agriculture and the Minister responsible for Tourism for periods of no more than 30 days in total within the period of validity of the permit. During the committee meeting, there was a discussion, among others. the following problems. The senators asked the Minister whether new legal solutions would affect the supply of foreign workers, whether they would reduce or make it difficult for foreigners who want to work in Poland. This is extremely important in the context of the enormous demand for seasonal workers. The Minister's answer was that we cannot fully determine what the consequences will be, especially since the largest group of working foreigners are workers from Ukraine who have obtained the possibility of visa-free entry into other European countries. So we'll see how it's going to be shaped. But there are no exact calculations or exact data here. It was also asked whether in Poland wage movements are expected in companies and in the state administration, which would encourage the return of Poles working abroad. In this respect, the Minister sent a question to the Minister of Finance. He didn't answer. On the question whether the government was in favour of the directive, the answer was negative, but, of course, the directive, which is in force, is currently being implemented. The Legislative Office has proposed six amendments that have been discussed and one editorial amendment. After hearing the discussion and hearing the Minister who agreed that these amendments were justified, all members of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy present at the committee meeting supported these amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u115	Thank you, Senator, for the report. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator, again. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Marian Zielenecki, was authorized to present the position of the government during parliamentary work... [[Marcin.]] Marcin Zielenecki, I'm sorry. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? If so, please be kind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to briefly present the objectives and subject of the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions, which the Sejm adopted on 22 June this year. As the rapporteur mentioned, the main objective of the Act is to implement Directive 2014/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for employment as a seasonal worker, as well as And this is the second fundamental objective of this law to limit the long-standing abuses in the employment of foreigners in Poland. I am aware of the importance of this law for the labour market, especially for agriculture and fruitage, which largely benefit from the work of foreigners, especially from Ukraine, especially in times of falling unemployment in our country. The submission of the bill was preceded by intensive inter-ministerial consultations and public consultations with the social partners. Many solutions are the result of this consultation. However, the employment of foreigners cannot be fully carried out in an uncontrolled manner, because excessive labour immigration from countries with a much lower level of wages could result in lower wages, worse working conditions and pushing Polish workers out of the labour market. The legal solutions put forward by the High House meet these challenges. In our opinion, they agree with the interests of all stakeholders, improve control and monitoring tools, while allowing the acquisition of foreign workers at a reasonable level. The amendments tabled in the Sejm have introduced several additional solutions to facilitate the acquisition of foreign workers. A new type of foreigner's work permit was introduced: seasonal work permit. It will be required in some subclasses of agriculture, horticulture and tourism services indicated in the Regulation. It will be issued, as in the case of registration of the declaration, at the county employment office, but for a longer period than in the case of declarations, because up to 9 months in the calendar year. It will be dealt with in administrative proceedings completed by an administrative decision, which may be considered as a handicap, but at the same time short time limits are introduced for dealing with such cases. The proposed rules on seasonal work permits take into account, as far as possible, the facilitations allowed by the Directive for citizens of certain countries today covered by the so-called "seasonal work permits." the declaration procedure. These are, first, the exemption from the so-called. labour market test, which significantly reduces the process time, secondly, a new solution in the form of so-called. a multi-season permit, which means that the employer can obtain an entry in the register of seasonal work for a period of up to 3 years, thirdly, entrusting the foreigner with other work than seasonal work for up to 30 days in total without the need to notify the office or obtain a permit. We introduce the possibility of entrusting each type of seasonal work on the basis of a single permit. In the event that the office cannot issue the required documents immediately after the entry into force of the foreigner's permit for seasonal work, the work will be considered legal. Moreover, when starting work on the day on which the office does not work, it will be possible to entrust the work immediately, provided that the relevant documents are sent to the district office on the first day of work. The Act also provides for amendments to the so-called. a simplified procedure based so far on the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. It consists of the registration by the county labour office of the employer of the intention to entrust the work to a foreigner, a citizen of Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Russia or Ukraine for a period not exceeding 6 months within 12 months. It should be stressed that the credibility of this procedure has been severely affected recently. In the absence of certain conditions for registration of a statement and information about the actual employment of a foreigner, an increasing number of statements are made for appearances, in order to obtain a property benefit, by unemployed, homeless and persons who do not receive any income from business activities. A significant proportion of foreigners using such statements treats them as part of the right of entry and residence in the territory of the Schengen States. They are then looking for another job or another source of earnings. It is therefore necessary to improve this procedure, in particular by introducing a fee, even in a small amount, to provide a basis for refusing to enter a declaration in the records by means of an administrative decision and the employer's information obligations to take up work by a foreigner. These obligations will apply to non-seasonal work. An important novel is the introduction of an optional condition for refusing a work permit or entering a statement in the register, if it follows from the circumstances that the application has been made for appearances, statements will be used by the foreigner for purposes other than the performance of the work for the entity or the person entrusting the work to the foreigner does not fulfil the obligations relating to carrying out the business or entrusting the work to other persons, e.g. does not pay due insurance contributions, he is behind on taxes. The project provides for major changes to the rules governing the functioning of ICT systems, including data on the assignment of work to foreigners and the exchange of information between public employment services and control services, in particular the Border Guard and the State Labour Inspection. And consuls. The project provides for the provision of data to the police and the head of the customs and treasury office for carrying out the tasks of carrying out checks on the legality of the residence of foreigners. It will facilitate the collection of data necessary for the examination of work permits or statements from the Social Insurance Institution and the National Tax Administration. In order to effectively carry out the tasks related to the issue of work permits and the registration of declarations, a register of work of foreigners will be established, which will include information on work permits, seasonal work permits and declarations on the assignment of work. I will also mention the introduction of a remuneration condition when issuing a permit for the work of a foreigner. It is about remuneration, which not only corresponds to the remuneration of employees performing comparable work, as has been the case so far, but is also not lower than the minimum wage. We also introduce solutions to facilitate the extension of cooperation with a foreigner and at the same time encourage the employment of foreigners on the basis of a contract of employment. This will increase the protection of foreign workers, and indirectly also of Polish workers. If an employer employing a foreigner on the basis of a declaration for at least 3 months wishes to continue this cooperation for a period of more than a total of 6 months, which will already require a work permit, after submitting an application the work carried out while waiting for the decision of the voivode on the work permit will be considered legal. This will allow for continuous employment of a proven foreigner in the employer regardless of the duration of the procedure. In view of the scope of the changes and the wide range of stakeholders, amendments to declarations and new seasonal work permits cannot enter into force very quickly. However, it is necessary to process them as soon as possible in order to give them a final shape. 7 more implementing regulations will be needed. The work on issuing such regulations is already advanced. Amendments with minor exceptions should enter into force on 1 January 2018. In accordance with the relevant transitional provisions, a procedure will be followed for the termination of old declarations of intention to entrust the performance of the work. It will be possible to make use of these statements by the end of 2018. The proposed law contains provisions that implement the EU directive, so-called. seasonal, taking into account acceptable elements of flexibility, as well as solutions that will allow better monitoring of labour immigration and better management of migration taking into account the needs of the Polish labour market. The legislative amendments proposed by the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have improved the law in legislative terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u117	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Augustine. Minister, you're welcome. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u118	Minister, Poland was against this directive. Could you tell us why? Second thing. In view of the situation on the labour market and, as far as I know, legal options, because the directive imposes certain minima Of course, you can go further. You have not considered extending the mechanisms mentioned here by the Minister to other sectors requiring seasonal work, e.g. construction, road construction, where are the workers very short? Because here, as far as I know from the committee's meeting, it's about agriculture, sadization and one more industry, tourism, and they're not the only seasonal jobs. So first of all: does this apply to these other industries? And have you considered extending these mechanisms to other sectors, given the situation in the labour market, simply the lack of workers in many sectors?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u119	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u120	Mr Marshal, Mr Senators, High Izbo, as regards the first question, about the reasons for the negative attitude towards the directive, I would like to remind you that this directive is from 2014 and therefore I did not have the opportunity to participate directly in the legislative procedure relating to the adoption of this directive. However, I would like to say that the reason for such a negative position is one. This directive makes it difficult to employ seasonal workers. And based on the statements... So I think it was as if the main reason which decided that Poland had a negative position here. This does not, of course, mean that we are exempt from the obligation to implement this directive. So that the directive was adopted. The deadline for implementation is 30 September 2016. So we are implementing the directive, right. As for the situation on the labour market... Maybe I can use numbers to characterize the situation on the labour market and the need to reach for foreign workers. Thus, the number of foreign workers employed on the basis of the procedures we are talking about today is estimated, estimated, because we are not able to determine exactly what the number of workers providing work in Poland are foreigners on the basis of these simplified solutions... I'm talking about actually doing my job because of the abuse I mentioned. So we estimate that about 900 000 workers in Poland are people who use this procedure. We can confront it, for example. with the Social Insurance Institution data on the number of employees who are foreigners and pay contributions in the Polish social security system. This number is about 225 thousand, so these numbers vary significantly. From here on one side there is a need to implement the seasonal workers directive and, on the other hand, The need to seal this system. The law we are debating today responds to both challenges posed by the labour market. There's also a need for control. It is not that once such an employee enters Poland, the state is as if it is exempt from the obligation to monitor what is happening in the context of the visa-free movement which was introduced for citizens of the European Union. We must remember that this need is even more clear here. The third question concerned other industries. I'll answer that question briefly. We must bear in mind that we are talking about the Seasonal Directive, not every work, not every type of work falls within the categories of seasonal work set out in the Directive and in the provisions which express the implementation of the Directive. An important element to clarify the concept of seasonal worker and at the same time to clarify the subject matter of these provisions will be a regulation that will be issued on the basis of the provisions discussed today. This regulation will formulate such a precise definition of seasonal worker. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u121	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u122	We have met with the situation that, as a matter of fact, the directive's incentive has been extended. In ours, too. I identify with the Ministry of Labour This was the case with the Ministry of Labour. We have extended the provisions proposed in the directives to other sectors or to similar situations. I meant whether or not you considered it. I know this is about seasonal work, but the problem of lack of employees is not just about these jobs. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u123	All right, Mr. Senator. As I said, the implementing regulations seem to have been 7 of them generally give the opportunity to monitor labour market demand for foreign workers and identify such industries, such sectors of the economy where there is a need to reach for foreign workers. After the entry into force of this law, after the adoption of implementing regulations... As I said, 2018 is a transitional period during which the existing legislation, previously issued statements, can still be applied. It will also be possible to monitor the demand and possible extension of this catalogue of industries, sectors of the economy where simplified procedures can be used.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u124	Thank you very much. Senator Philip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to touch the subject a little politically hot, but very substantively touch it. Well, in our region, Senator Augustine and mine are very low unemployment, we are dealing with a large lack of hands to work. I can give you examples. And so on. gastronomy. You can find places where there are postcards that the place doesn't work because there are no employees. Current Government I'm describing it. I'm not discussing it. It has a very strong position when it comes to immigrants, especially economics. Large labour agencies and employers are looking towards Ukraine. They've worked pretty hard on this market, and there's less and less workers there, even though they are. When you talk to them and ask them how they're going to patch this hole, they say this: we look towards other countries, we think about the Philippines, we think about Vietnam; we send our recruits there to investigate what the situation is. And they are determined to bring these workers from there to Poland. But it's pretty tough, as I said, the government's position on labour immigrants. How do you want this dilemma, this contradiction to try to solve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u126	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u127	I here, Senator, do not see contradictions at all, because what else is the phenomenon of labour immigration that we observe, and what else is the seasonal work that we are discussing today, and for which it has been proposed, one can say the solution in the directive on seasonal workers. So, in my opinion, today's discussion does not in any way confirm this position or the thesis that the senator is putting on, such that a firm position on labour immigration, immigration from completely different directions than those we are discussing today, somehow limits the possibility of using precisely the benefit that the seasonal workers directive gives. So it's hard for me to respond to this thesis. I think that this bill or bill, which we are discussing today, confirms the idea that we want to facilitate and we want to reach out to those workers who are able to find themselves on the Polish labour market as quickly as possible, for various reasons, e.g. for language reasons. I would like to say that the work of foreigners, especially from Ukraine, is a common phenomenon today. We with these workers, or actually with these workers, meet every day and treat it as a phenomenon that has existed for some time. So that I am really unable to see the connection between the position of the Polish government concerning the so-called. economic migration from other directions and the interest of the Polish government in the work of foreign workers, especially from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u128	Thank you, Minister. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u129	Minister, you probably didn't listen, didn't hear about what's going on in Wrocław, what's going on in Krakow, what's going on in Przemyśl with regard to the Ukrainians who come here to work seasonally. This atmosphere that is being created around immigrants is beginning to be visible. So, believe me, Mr. Libicki's attention was unreasonable. But I'd like to ask you another question. Currently, Poland is not on seasonal work, although it was against it, but on the work of posted workers, on the work of transport companies, it strongly opposes the rule which will now apply to seasonal work under this directive. These are seasonal works, but there is a discrepancy here. Do you not think that it will be quite difficult to maintain that we believe that a Ukrainian employee who comes to Poland, under this directive, must receive a minimum wage or comparable to what a Polish employee gets, just as the Minister told us to inform us here, and a Polish employee posted in the West In the West, in which another non-Union worker under the directive will have to receive as a seasonal worker a minimum remuneration for French, German, Belgian or Dutch workers, will he be able to receive a much lower remuneration if we can maintain this system? Because, as you know, Western countries are protesting as they say. How do you want to get out of this, let's face it, traps? Because when it comes to those who come here to Poland, we agree to it, and when Poles leave, although not for seasonal work, but for delegated work or transport, we think that they absolutely do not have to earn as much as the locals do. How would the Minister assess this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u130	Good. Minister, one more question about Senator Augustine's question. Is this directive and this solution that we are currently discussing concerning posted workers, suppose, from Ukraine? Because there are companies that sign contracts and post them. Does this apply to posted workers?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u131	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, High Izbo, I could tell you a long time about what's going on with posted workers. I myself am as if I are involved in the discussion on this subject which is currently taking place in the European Union. Let me put it this way: in order to actually answer two questions, one has to come from the ground up, that is to say, what principle, as regards European integration, is at the heart of using the formula of the posted worker. It can be said that the formula of the posted worker is an expression of the freedom of movement of services within the European Union, which gives Polish entrepreneurs, Polish employers the opportunity to compete in the labour markets of other European Union Member States with entrepreneurs settled in these markets. This position regarding the revision of the rules governing the posting of workers, which Poland is firmly and explicitly articulating in the European Union at the moment, is an expression of the desire to maintain freedom of movement of services and freedom of competition. I would like to say that, in the framework of today's existing rules relating to the status of posted workers, a Polish trader posting a worker to perform a service to a contractor operating in a different labour market than the Polish market is obliged to keep, guarantee, pay the worker the minimum remuneration applicable in that market. So this standard, you can say, is already in force today. In the case of seasonal workers, there is a fundamentally different situation. Firstly, we are talking about workers entering the territory of a Member State of the European Union, but from outside the European Union. Secondly, we are talking about essentially seasonal workers. I would remind you that the definition of posted workers as regards the provisions of the Posted Workers Directive also gives the possibility to use this formula of posted workers, but this is... The period as if using this formula is much longer than what we are discussing today in the case of the seasonal workers directive. Thus, it can be said that workers or persons who are nationals of countries other than the Member States of the European Union because these countries are not generally covered by the so-called ones. EU freedoms, do not enjoy freedom of movement within the European Union or freedom of employment. These solutions that we are discussing today are an expression of some facilitation in taking up work in the labour market of one or more Member States of the European Union, but this freedom is not as full as it is for workers moving within the European Union. So that I don't see here as having to maintain the full uniformity of solutions. Besides, notice that we are talking, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, about the rules that are EU regulations. We are talking about the need to implement these provisions and the issue of this law that we are discussing today, its compliance with the 2014 Directive, has not been questioned, so in our opinion there is no problem in this regard. [[Minister, I asked whether this directive we are voting on concerns posted workers from outside the Union.]] No, it's not. [[Not applicable?]] Not applicable. This is a completely different status.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u132	Thank you. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u133	Mr. Marshal, Minister, you said you didn't see a contradiction between the government's sharp position and the fact that we're open to seasonal workers. Well, let me rephrase that. That's my first question. If this seasonal worker wants to come to Poland for seasonal work from a different territory than Ukraine, are you open to it, as you have declared, or not? And that's the first question. And the second question is the following. Of course we are talking about seasonal workers, but it is also difficult to avoid a wider discussion about the lack of hands to work in Poland. At the committee meeting, Mr Swed, who was in your replacement, said that you were working In particular, Minister Kwieciński at the Ministry of Development A very important solution for employers, namely how foreigners who come to Poland to work, connect with Poland and employers for longer. And I confirm... My experience is that Polish employers say: I invite him here, he will work for me and he is going somewhere further, where he will get 5 zlotys more. And now, with open borders, especially for the Ukrainians, this problem will get worse. Could you tell us more about the work that Minister Kwieciński is doing on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u134	Thank you. Minister, my question corresponds to Senator Libicki's first question. Does the government seem to limit or limit the scope of this directive because of the colour of the skin, the religion... It's like this. I'm talking about African expats. Because this is a directive that covers everyone. Are there any solutions planned here?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u135	Senator Libicki's first question was: are we open to seasonal workers from other countries? Of course, yes. [[...from Ukraine.]] Yes, of course. I mentioned these countries in my speech. I mentioned that for some countries, and there are five, if I remember correctly... [[Voice from the room: There are six of them.]] There's six of them. For these 6 countries, i.e. Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Russia and Ukraine, we use the so-called. simplified procedure. But this does not, of course, mean that nationals of other countries, other than those of the 6 countries for which the simplified procedure is applied, do not have the possibility to take up work in Poland, in the Polish labour market and do not have the possibility to take up work as a seasonal worker. And here, Mr. Marshal, skin color, language, religion has nothing to do with it. We know that EU law is based on the principle of equality and equal treatment regardless of different criteria. I could list these criteria here... In any event, a directive which differentiates the legal status of citizens also from other countries outside the European Union, and would differentiate by any criteria which would be discriminatory, could not be considered compatible with Union law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u136	Thank you. Senator Libicki's still here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u137	One more question. Can you tell us more about the work that Mr Kwieciński is doing in the Ministry of Development?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u138	Mr. Senator, I wouldn't want to do anything to Minister Kwieciński. I think that when this work is so advanced that it will be possible to repeal the hack of secrecy, the Minister will be pleased to present the results of this work to you. I don't feel authorized... [[But I understand that some work is being done in this case. Yes?]] According to what Minister Swed mentioned, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u139	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any more requests for questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one volunteered.]] Okay, I'm checking in. Please take the floor of Senator Borusewicz. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the hall: Me...]] Excuse me... Yeah, I'm not sorry. But no one can replace me right now. There's a situation, so I'm gonna... [[The marshal is irreplaceable.]] I'll be performing as a senator from the marshal's place. Dear Minister, High Izbo! It is clear to me that workers from outside the European Union, especially from Ukraine, are very much needed in the Polish economy, and it is not only for seasonal work, but in all areas: in seasonal work in agriculture, in fruit industry, also in industry, but we also need IT specialists, nurses... So it's like that in all spheres. Those entrepreneurs I've talked to, and I've talked to a lot of entrepreneurs lately, they say directly: without Ukrainians we'll have to go bankrupt, without them we're not able to function. But Ukraine is not a bottomless place when it comes to being able to recruit workers. Yesterday I met with representatives of the Ivano-Frankivsk administration circuit and they told me that they had two large investments, and in one they needed employment of 5 000 people, because they did not have employees, and they already had problems in the region. It is Western Ukraine, and to a large extent Ukrainians come to Poland from western Ukraine. Thus the possibilities of Ukrainian demography are already exhausted. And it is clear to me that we must create a situation in which these Ukrainians will not only come, but will also want to stay. We can't stand the Germans' wage competition, so we can only create better conditions. Well, we have important advantages, positive qualities that these people hold and can hold, such natural closeness of the tongue, less distance from the place of the apartment... But without the policy of the state in which the government must also be involved, as these people come to us, they will drift away from us. So there has to be learning Polish, there has to be support for the development and bringing in the family. Well, when someone brings family and his children to Polish school, he will remain, yes, he will remain. Of course, this migration is very beneficial for us. We are close culturally, mentally, linguisticly. I know that it is also, although slightly smaller, migration from Belarus. I met Belarusians working in a large Polish construction company, in a very large company. I have to say, I was surprised. So surely there must be a policy of supporting these citizens, foreign citizens who want to work in Poland, and making life easier for them. On the one hand, this directive tightens up certain criteria, but on the other hand it gives advantages, such as pay, etc., because it gives such advantages. It is also important to pay attention to the fact that there are as few incidents as possible, negative behaviours of national or economic origin. It's one thing to do with the other, the economic approach, which means they're taking our jobs, the Ukrainians, the Ukrainians are taking our jobs, they're putting on the other. That is why it is absolutely necessary to fight this, and this is the absolutely required activity of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Near my place of residence, in Chwaszczyn near Gdansk a group of Polish hooligans attacked Ukrainian workers living together in a cottage. These Ukrainians were about 20. They've been beaten. The owner who hired them was also beaten, and who appeared for good luck. In their defense. So it is not that all Poles have a negative attitude towards Ukrainians, to workers from Ukraine. Anyway, this owner was beaten, too. I have made a statement on this matter, I have addressed it to Minister Błaszczak and it is time, and there is a month for this statement to come to an answer, an explanation of what the Minister intends to do in this matter and in similar cases. Unfortunately, this answer... I thought that this answer would be sent to me quickly, instantly, because it is in the interest of Poland. It's quite simple: the Ukrainians were attacked, they were beaten, the perpetrators were probably settled in some part of it. Such situations must be addressed decisively, both in the field of information and in the legal sphere. This type of action should be taken quickly and information should be communicated publicly and quickly, so that others who would thus like to discharge their alcohol frustration know that this is not the way. Let them go to the right place, to fitness or somewhere on the field and try their own... of course not to people, but to train their frustration elsewhere. Of course, the bill tightens up the solutions that are currently in place. I understand that the government has delayed this because it is not in our interest to tighten up the current rules. But I see a big gate here. I'm glad she's here. A provision which provides that if there is no decision in due time, it will be considered that work is legal. This is a cleverly invented gateway. I think she's good. Finally, there is a contradiction between the policy that you present to the Minister, the policy of openness and of bringing foreigners to work and the position that the government of Beata Szydło presents publicly, this concerns refugees, including economic ones, from areas other than Europe, e.g. Africa or the Middle East. And I see this contradiction. Just because the Minister doesn't see it doesn't mean there's no contradiction here. Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Mr. Senator is also speaking. Yes? [[Yes.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, I'll start with where you ended up with the marshal. In the debate in the European Parliament and many times later, when Poland was attacked for lack of solidarity with refugees, the example of Poland and the Prime Minister was cited. It was her, Minister, who put the sign of equality here and said: after all, we have accepted a million refugees from Ukraine into work. I didn't dream it, I heard it. And I'm guessing everyone else is, too. Of course, these matters are connected, and not only in the statements made by the Prime Minister. These are related in the context of a general approach to the matter, which I would like to draw attention to. The fruits of this approach are already beginning to be seen in aggressive behaviour towards strangers in Poland. It's dramatic. The Polish economy urgently needs workers. But who will come to work in a country for which he is afraid that he will be mistreated there? I must say that what the Minister said when referring to my question about the possibility of extending the action of the directive has revealed a certain bad situation. Minister, the government is two steps behind and is late to react to the situation on the labour market. It is probably still in the heads of the rulers that it is a market for excess hands to work, but in the meantime it is a market for shortage. This concerns an increasing number of sectors and an increasing number of regions. Therefore, it is worrying that only the regulations for this law are to reveal this picture and show who we are missing and where we are missing. Only then, after 2018, will there be a reflection on what to do with this phantom. It's gonna be way too late. It seems to me that if other government plans are to succeed, development policy must be consistent, must be uniform. It cannot be that the National Development Plan, which I hear so much about at the meetings of the Economic Commission, is designed to attract many investors Today, or at this meeting, we will still proceed with a bill, which includes: is expected to intensify the promotion of investment in Poland At the same time, there is a shortage of workers. This is our reality. That's what Senator Libicki said. And the way you treat your visitors, I found out in my region. It was enough that Turkish students went out on the street and were beaten up as strangers because they looked different. It was in Pile, Minister. They were students of the L.A.P.S. So in such an atmosphere it will be difficult for us to build And I really urge you to do that. A coherent and good policy of attracting guests to work. We really need them. When there was a tough campaign in France, I had a chance to see the election video. Very eloquent, very short. This was Marine Le Pen, who was so hostile to immigrants. She said to the French: Frenchmen, I'll give you a job, I'll throw out immigrants, I'll give you a job. And this work was shown on the construction site where strangers worked, in the sewers where strangers worked, in the garbage disposal, in the construction of roads... I'll give you a job! And we're short of nurses, we're short of doctors, we're short of a few hundred thousand people to care for old people, and they're gonna be rapidly increasing. So we really need to have a national policy of attracting people from all over the world to work in Poland. Indeed, Minister, I personally distinguish posted workers and drivers from seasonal workers, and I distinguish one directive from another. However, I would like to stress that we should... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators will excuse me... [[Yes, we're listening.]] [[We're moving away from the subject.]] We have such beautiful couaches... However, we should be more coherent. There seems to be a bit of a ripple here, though. The rules are that the minimum wage rules for posted workers should be respected. However, the issue is that Poland should actively cooperate with respect to compliance with these rules. Because very many cases are indicated when they are avoided and cannot be counted on cooperation of our companies. That's why it's called dumping. It seems to me that it is difficult to explain why we agree by implementing this directive to ensure that visitors coming to the seasonal work have the same salary as Polish workers on the same jobs, and we do not want to work together so that Poles who are going to work within the European Union as posted workers or in transport actually have similar wages as their local counterparts. The last point I'd like to raise. I have some anxiety about this bill. She actually imposes a little more responsibilities and they will fall on the local governments, on the powiats. Unfortunately, there's nothing here about money, not about employees. So I'm afraid that apart from a little more work, it'll take a little more time. And seasonal jobs have a thing for them to be short-lived. And the reaction here must be good. Of course, Mr. Marshal rightly emphasizes, and I will also stress that a good mechanism is The fact that when someone turns again doesn't have to wait for a decision. But I'm talking about the first decisions, the first statements. I'm afraid no extra money, no extra employees. After all, it would also be an investment in migration policy at all. This cannot be done well. And that's why they're worried about all this, too. Therefore, as the Minister said, Poland opposed this directive, fearing these obstacles. So if they're already included in the rules, let's at least take care It's about these regulations to be implemented efficiently. Let's give the county a chance, that's an opportunity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u141	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Zając... [[Jana.]] Excuse me, Jana Zając... [[Joseph.]] [[I'm sorry, Josepha.]] I'm sorry again. The secretary gave me a hint... of Joseph the Hare. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I'm so sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The economic processes and the social processes involved are taking place at very different rates. We often imagine that these are things that go at some rate, so to speak, linear. In reality, however, this is not the case. And here we have this case, directly related to economic emigration. To understand what's going on here. And all I want to say is the east border. Unfortunately, it is necessary to be closer to this East. I live several kilometers from the Ukrainian border and have such observations, you can say, from every day. What's going on? In the east, we don't really see the problem that has arisen. Although I think it's a very occasional case. That there are foreigners, Ukrainians, Belarusians who are being attacked somewhere. Everything runs, surprisingly, in a very peaceful and friendly atmosphere. Being a little surprised and at the same time aiming at science, I did about two weeks ago. Maybe almost 3 weeks ago. A few days' trip deep into Ukraine, to Kamienica, Vineyard, etc. Because the border, and especially the Volyn border, doesn't give the right picture of what's going on. And I have to say, when it was a year since the same type of trip, I noticed something that surprised me. The fundamental issue is an amazing change in the way the Ukrainians refer to us. Change to a very positive one. The portraits of the leaders of the last war, which could be seen in Stanisławów, were missing, huge, hung in the center. Whoever started the conversation. Asking what and how in Poland. And above all, the most important point, which has a huge impact on migration processes here, is the relation of money. Unfortunately, Ukrainian money is weakening rapidly. Goldilocks is gaining great value in Ukraine. And when we talked to different people, they said that the philosophy of going to Poland is: half of what you earn must be spent on survival in Poland, but for the other half that you will send to Ukraine, you can keep the whole family at a good level, so it is worth doing so. Most of them don't even think about going on. We asked about it. They say that for language reasons they feel good in Poland They understand us as we understand them when they speak Ukrainian. Although speaking Ukrainian is very difficult. Well, let's say, these few sentences, when you do. He sits down at the table, he walks out there somehow. Visiting cities such as, one by one, Stanisławów, Chernivtsi, Kamienica, Vinnica, Żytomierz, I noticed one interesting thing. When you were walking around the city, to interesting places, such as: in Vinnytsia, where two churches... Dominican is in a huge renovation for which the Ukrainian government has allocated money. These are three floors, I was in the underground, and two more... Well, I didn't dare to go there anymore, but I can say it's beautifully renovated. The most important thing is the advertising posts. They're talking indirectly about what's incredibly accelerated there and what's going to happen here. All these advertising posts look about the same if we look at them from a distance. When it gets closer, it turns out that all these announcements, which differ little, talk about the fact that someone organizes a Polish language learning course. When we asked in Vinnica what this phenomenon was, they told us that young people, young people, were preparing to go to work in Poland. This phenomenon cannot be overlooked because it is very important, as is the change of attitude itself. If 2, 3 years ago to say that there will be such courses of Polish language... It would be unthinkable then, because it was a period in which, I would say, something wrong with the nationalist, which is now disappearing. Polish organizations received help, as we were told everywhere, from the Ukrainian government. They felt good. In the Vineyard, they were told that on average, there are about 80 and 100 Poles per week, i.e. those who are there, but who are finding, digging up documents that were once buried proving that they were Poles. And they appear in Polish organizations. I was at a meeting with such a huge group of Poles in Vinnytsia... I never imagined anything like this would be there. They are going here mostly not permanently, just to take a job periodically, a job that is with us. And we need to confirm. It's already here. That we have a very good labour market. The unemployment margin that appears is such a unemployment margin for social health. These are people who aren't encouraged to work, and that's the part in society that's always there. I think we're gonna have to react quickly to these phenomena. Just take into account how large the transfer of money earned by people doing jobs in Poland took place last year This is the sum expressed in several billions. I'm sure this is going to be a lot bigger this year. It is worth taking advantage of this phenomenon by looking economically at what we need, what can help us, which can build good relations mainly with Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u143	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski speaks. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I happen to be a senator from the district of northern Mazovia, from the Ciechanów subregion. In my constituency there is the district of Plonski, one of the largest areas of strawberries and soft fruit in Europe. Like colleagues who have orchards on their territory, in the Grójecki district, or other intensive agricultural crops and large-scale agricultural production... The problem of seasonal work by foreigners is well known on our territory. What did it look like in the past when there were no regulations yet? I remember a similar debate here in this House in 2012, as was introduced in detail and rules for controlling seasonal workers by the Border Guard, which could carry out checks on specific places where they work. It caused a lot of emotion back then. There were meetings with farmers in the district of Płońskie. These meetings were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or consular services, who spoke about visa obligations and the consequences of this, but also representatives of the Border Guard, the Labour Office and all services working together in this area. Well, most of the time, it looked like the mobs that organized the arrival of seasonal workers were loading people to work on some vehicles, driving up to a specific plantation or farm and showing... 10 and 15 people needed. These people just got out of the car and stayed here to work. Fortunately, it's changing. Why? Because he used the chain of intermediaries on this seasonal job. There were stories at the Consulate in Lviv. I, too, made statements to the Foreign Minister on this matter at one time. So-called. The queue mob took control of the queue to the consulate, and the Polish diplomatic and consular services were in principle helpless, because their jurisdiction is not subject to what is happening outside our facility. So that there have been a lot of problems in recent years. I am pleased, especially because of the whole discussion of the various solutions used The fact that one of the objectives of this law, which is to comply with the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, and more specifically from 26 February 2014, is to reduce the practice of groups dealing with illegal cross-border activities between persons making declarations of their intention to employ a foreigner and foreigners. From this point of view, this is a very good step. I hope it's to a large extent I do not know if it will completely exclude the kind of practices that are being applied. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that recently, one of the United Nations agencies has provided shocking information which, during the current events in our country, has not aroused any greater interest, and a pity, because it requires reflection. According to the United Nations, in the year 2100, i.e. 83 years from now, 45% will be lost. Poles. The number of Poles, Polish citizens, is to be around 21 million according to demographic forecasts. I am not talking about the media age, which is obviously changing, and the increase in the number of people who are already reaching a serious age. So these are the giant challenges facing the Polish state, the giant challenges of a political nature. But political issues are perhaps the least important. Social and economic issues are particularly important. A very wise and realistic policy must be pursued here, which will exclude the naive belief that immigration will address the demographic problem. In the comments to the report, to the UN agenda, experts say that this problem cannot be solved by influx... We most often use, so to speak, the citizens of Ukraine. Some of them have Polish origins or had ancestors of Poles. In any case, they are culturally close to us. We also had history together. I'm sure there are a lot of connecting elements here, but you can't... Ukraine is also experiencing demographic problems. And the trend that's right now It is estimated that one million or two million Ukrainian citizens are either seasonally or more permanently staying and working in Poland. At some point, it will be limited. It's so memento mori and it's right in front of us. I know that a lot of people might think that this is abstraction. What do we care what's going to happen in 80 years? But this is not a very distant time, and the negative consequences of the processes and demographic collapse are already felt. And the scale of feeling these processes will be extremely large. Therefore, in this context too, we should have a very prudent policy on the employment of foreigners, all the more so because there are classes. You have to say it out loud. Which Poles do not want to pay for the proposed hourly rate, for such, and not for other money. We have to have a smart policy here. I hope that this law, which implements the European directive and gives certain control instruments, which is important for the security of the state and the protection of our economic interests... On the one hand, we are talking about old-timers who receive special privileges, and on the other hand there is a promotion for foreigners who regularly come to Poland. If, during the last 5 years, they have applied for the right to work temporarily in the territory of the Republic of Poland, they have the possibility to obtain a permit for 3 consecutive seasons, provided, of course, that their working time does not exceed 9 months per year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u145	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to... [[Voice from the gym: There is no Minister.]] He's not here. [[You're the minister.]] Good. Perhaps the Minister would like to speak again? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No, thank you.]] The Senators did not make legislative proposals in the discussion and the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Care of Monuments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 538, and the report of the Commission In print No 538 A. [[Voice from the room: The Minister is not here yet.]] [[He's outside the door.]] Well, then, please. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Minister!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister! [[The Minister's making the formalities...]] [[Yeah, but what kind of formalities? We ask the Minister... what formalities? The Senator rapporteur is here and waiting.]] Yeah, ready. [[Then we'll wait.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] As requested by your marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 22 June 2017 amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Care of Monuments and some other laws. After reading the draft law, the Committee on Culture and Media, following a discussion on the day of yesterday's discussion, made a decision and asked the High Senate to approve the attached draft law without amendment. The minority representative, the rapporteur for minority proposals, will also speak because 3 amendments have been tabled during the debate and will be presented in the form of minority proposals. High Izbo! The Act of 22 June on the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Care of Monuments and some other laws aims to increase the general competence of the monument conservator as regards the formation of the personnel of the field authorities for the protection of monuments. It also extends the scope of supervision and coordination measures available to the Supreme Antiquities Protection Authority in relation to the authorities for which it is a superior body. In addition, it replaces the existing system of legal protection of monuments with an administrative system of fines. It is a project long awaited by the environment related to the protection of monuments. The previous parliamentary term also discussed several times how to increase the capacity of the general conservator and the voivodship conservationists of monuments. The members of the committee, especially the Sejm, took on a number of deniers addressed to the government in this regard, pointing to the need for uniform administration dealing with the protection of monuments and the extension of the general supervision of the conservator of monuments on what the conservators of the voivodship are doing. The project we are talking about at the moment clearly consumes these demands and proposes the creation of a coherent and holistic system for the protection of monuments. Increases the general competence of the monument conservator compared to the voivodship and the voivodship conservators In comparison with the heads of the various delegations. This gives a chance for uniform action across the country. It will also make it possible to harmonise the actions of conservationists of voivodship and conservation workers of monuments across the country. The second important element of this law is the granting of the right to react more quickly to actions that cause the destruction of the antique substance to voivodship conservationists, as well as the minister and general conservator of monuments. It should be recalled that in Poland, where unfortunately there have been many wars, many different disasters, our historical substance, our heritage has been significantly depleted, so the greater should be the action of the state to protect what else we have. According to Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments Information on the Opening of the Procedure on the Registration of a Monument in the Register and the Final End of this Procedure The Provincial Monument Preserver shall immediately communicate the relevant old age. Such information shall be made public until the end of the proceedings on the subject page of the Public Information Bulletin of the district Old Town in which the monument is situated, and in addition at the seat of the competent voivodship monument conservator or in a manner customarily accepted in the village where the monument is located. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10a The Act on the Protection of Monuments is reserved that from the date of the initiation of the procedure on the entry of the monument into the register until the date on which the decision in this case becomes final, the monument concerned is prohibited from carrying out conservation, restoration, construction and other activities which could lead to a violation of the substance or a change in the appearance of the monuments. This point, this passage, this article raised discussions at a committee meeting because some senators thought that this could lead to the degradation of a given monument, as work is stopped, the duration of this whole procedure until the final entry, which lasts for many months, could lead to the cessation of work. At the same time, the Minister representing the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage argued that the lack of conservation supervision could lead to a situation where unfortunately actions will be taken to the detriment of this monument. I think that, because there will be a discussion, Minister Gawin will speak as the general conservator of monuments. Yesterday, the resort was represented by Minister Lewandowski as a substitute for the Minister, who is the general conservator of monuments and who was at the UNESCO conference in Krakow yesterday and could not be present at our committee meeting. I'm explaining this so that there's no doubt about it later on in the course of the questions. On the basis of the following Article: 14aa Act on the protection of monuments from the date of the initiation of the procedure on the inclusion of the monument in the list of heritage treasures until the date on which the decision in this case becomes final, the monument concerned will be prohibited from conservation and restoration works and other actions which could lead to a violation of the substance or a change in the appearance of the monument. The ban will not apply to the monument entered in the register, to the inventory of the museum or to the national library stock. At the same time, it should be emphasized that in Poland about 90% of the historical substance, what we consider to be monuments, is architectural in nature, these are architectural objects. If I remember correctly, we have 46,000 objects in total. Maybe I'm wrong, but if you do, the Minister will correct it. - which meet these criteria. High Izbo, the second area of this law concerns the issue of increasing the administrative regime of liability for violations of the law. I'm not going to discuss this in detail. The Minister will probably address this in her speech or in the case of questions that will be addressed to the Minister. I just want to point out one thing. The draft government submission in its original form was received by the Marshal of the Sejm on 14 March 2017, and on 6 June, i.e. more than a month ago, the Marshal of the Sejm was influenced by the government self-correction concerning among others. the establishment of the National Monument Protection Fund and the introduction of the same administrative regime of liability for violation of the law. This significantly broadened the scope of this law. And the bill in this form, plus a few amendments that were proposed by the Parliament... This brought together this project that we are currently debating. In favour of the adoption in the Sejm of a law in this form, which was also proposed by the Senate by our Committee on Culture, voted 421 Members, 5 against, 18 abstentions seemed to be representatives of the Sejm. or Members of the Polish People's Party. High Izbo, we voted in favour of the bill without amendment by 5 senators, 2 senators against, 2 abstentions. Minority applications have also been submitted. In a moment, these minority proposals will be presented by a minority representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u147	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Three minority proposals have indeed been submitted, since unfortunately these proposals have not been supported by a majority of committees. I would like to present them and justify why some of the senators and senators, the senators, were in favour of such amendments. These amendments are not important and are not very extensive, but in our view they will allow the implementation of this law at all, and in some cases they will extend their responsibilities. I am the first to present an amendment that says that in Article. 3 in point 1 in point (a) b, in the mouth. 1a words older than 5 years shall be inserted after the words "trees or shrubs." I explain: the fact is that the bill states that the removal of shrubs or trees requires the permission of the conservator every time. If there is no limit, this also applies to small trees, i.e. trees, which are several months or 1 year old. And there are several thousand of them every year in the history of court-park complexes or palace-park complexes. So from these records It would appear that the owner of a given monument would have to apply for several thousand permits to cut out the samosies. The samosies grow where they want, therefore these plants would devastate the layout of the park, the paths would disappear, the pools would disappear, something like a strict reserve, where man does not interfere very much. I understand that also for officials the issue of so many permits concerning one monument And if there were a few thousand of them on a national scale, it would probably be a million. It would be unenforceable. At the same time, the bill says that the owner or manager must ensure that the monument is unchanged, that is, the path must be a path, the clombum must be a clomb. In our view, in order to maintain this, we need to allow the manager to remove the SPGs without requiring him to allow it. The Nature Conservation Act refers to the diameter of the trunk or branches of trees that can be removed without consent, within a similar philosophy, that it is impossible to order the owner not to do anything with the samosies. I think it would be too complicated to determine the diameter here, hence the idea to consider that the owner of the self-contained property, which is less than 5 years old, can remove, and in the case of those who are more than 5 years old, he must obtain the consent of the monument conservator. The second amendment concerns Article. 1 in point 22, Article. 108. 1, which reads as follows: "Who destroys, destroys or allows the monument to be destroyed or damaged by failure to act, shall be punished... In the project there is only a record: who destroys or damages the monument. We also want to add a statement or allow it to be destroyed or damaged. We believe that punishment should also be subject to those who have just allowed the destruction of the monument. A simple example. If, as a result of damage to the roof, water starts to piss inside the palace and destroy what is inside, then the manager or owner is obliged to take action. Failure to do so should also be punished. The manager or owner must prevent the monument from being damaged from being destroyed. A recipe without words, who allows it to be destroyed, will cause the owner to say: I did nothing, after all, if it rains, it is not my fault. And this is the second amendment we recommend to you. The third amendment is what I am aware of, more controversial. The new law actually introduces very strict and very high penalties for people who will somehow violate the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Monuments, and in particular the Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (1) (5). The penalty provided for in this law for breaching those provisions can be considered... The guilty person can be punished with the amount of PLN 0.5 million. I don't know why they said in the committee's discussion that if someone torched the monument, even the 0.5 million wasn't much. I would like to point out that the provision to which this amendment of the law, i.e. Article, refers. 36, he doesn't talk about such a situation, he talks about completely different things. And the fact of burning, arson, or arson of anything falls under the criminal code, from such things are the police, there are prosecutors, there are sentences that determine the penalties appropriate to the losses suffered as a result of such actions. Art. 36th Act speaks of the following thing, says that it is about doing works in the vicinity of the monument. Let me give you an example. Well, this is where he goes. for such action that the neighbour taking the plot next to the monument, e.g. The farmer will build himself a roof under a tractor. Under construction law, he has the right This is done, but according to the Monument Protection Act, he must obtain the permission of the monument conservator, which I personally agree with. But if, for some reason, because of ignorance or unwillingness to cooperate, this world would have built, then normally, as it has been so far, it would have been punished on the basis of building law for self-confidence, and under the new law it would have been punished by the amount of 0.5 million... then it could have been punished by that amount. And I think here it's like the rigor of punishment is way beyond what this farmer really did. The amendment boils down to reducing the maximum penalty from 0.5 million to 50 000: Article. Point 21, etc. The words "500 000' are replaced by "50 000'. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I have put forward proposals that are minority proposals. If I didn't quite succeed, I'm very sorry. My intention was not to discredit the law, but to correct it or to ensure that it could be implemented. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u149	Thank you, Senator. I'm asking for corrections... And sign again. [[Senator Andrzej Kobiak: It must be a few signatures or one will suffice?)]] [[But they're in the committee's report.]] In the committee's report? [[So they're not folding now.]] Okay, okay. Thank you. Then you don't have to fold them. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Culture and National Heritage has been authorized to present the government's position during parliamentary work... [[Voices from the room: There are questions.]] Oh, I'm sorry. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are any of your senators... [[Senator Rybicki.]] ...want to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki, you're welcome. [[I was the first.]] [[No, me.]] [[No, no. The senator volunteered earlier than Senator Ryszka.]] [[We have a photocell. We'll see about that.]] No, it's okay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u150	He's deciding the secretary who's collecting the applications... [[Yeah, there's a call order.]] Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I have a question for the Senator of the majority, Senator Jackowski. Mr. Senator, have there been opinions or constitutional doubts during the committee's meeting because the government's self-correction introduces, in addition to the penalties resulting from the Code of Offences, fines, which means that there is a breach of the principle that one act cannot be punished twice? Were there opinions of constitutional law specialists in this regard? Here, I would say, there are considerable legal doubts. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u151	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u152	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. There was a broad discussion on this at the committee meeting. On this issue of two-trackness... Well, we're dealing with a kind of absolution that comes into force as a result of this bill. The solutions adopted in the light of the assurances made by both the Ministry's representative and our Senate legislature, who deals with this law, do not give rise to a situation in which the same act can be held responsible twice. I think that the Minister will speak more broadly on this subject, because this is a common argument that is being used against this law. I would like to draw the attention of the High House, by the way, to the fact that each of your senators probably received a whole range of different comments on this bill on his mailbox, including. the position of the Chamber of Architects. I think that this will be discussed in the debate. The architects believed that the preservation of monuments according to the statutory record should be the person who completed second degree studies in architecture, because 90% these objects are architectural monuments. There were also very many protests of treasure hunters or people who are amateurizing with detection devices or other devices. It was very clear to the representative of the Ministry of Culture that the existing provisions provide that, in order to be able to carry out a legitimate search for monuments, e.g. with the help of detectors, you must obtain permission from the regional monument conservator and pay a fee of PLN 86. The absence of this authorisation in case of detention and administrative proceedings is punishable by a penalty of PLN 50. This shows some absurd legal provisions, because non-compliance with the law is rewarded by the fact that in total less money will be paid. And here, too, there were strong arguments that as far as the issue of these so-called ones is concerned. Amateur searchers... I don't want to discredit them, God forbid, it's a large group of passionate people, thanks to which we know a lot, among others. about Ordon's Redout in Warsaw in Wola. During the committee meeting it was also said that even the Mazovian monument conservator didn't know where this redoubt was, and it was the searchers who were looking there because they were hoping to find objects from the November Uprising, perfectly able to determine the place of this redoubt in Wola. So that discussion was. But there was also an amendment to me which, in turn, called for increased protection, that was to be observed against the so-called. amateurs from professional archaeological environments. I am talking about the fact that, in various ways, the discussion was simply on the subject. To answer your question... Like I said, as I could, I answered. In the light of what you're saying And here was the position of the representatives of the Ministry, and of the Minister, and the director of the Department of Monument Protection, who is a professor of law, and our legislator. That there is no possibility to be responsible twice for the same act under the two regimes of the rules which are changing in this respect. [[Senator Ryszka.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u153	Senator Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you have already mentioned that a representative of the House of Architects tried to promote that, so to speak, that the conservationists of the voivodship were only architects, and that there was just this argument that most of the monuments are architectural monuments. How did the committee meet that we did not accept such an amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u155	Here, the dominant... There was this doubt at the committee meeting, one of the senators was wondering if I could authorize such an amendment. But here was, first of all, an important interpretation of our senate legislator, who said that, according to the practice adopted, it would be regarded as expanding the matter of the law, and this in turn is contrary to the principles that the Senate should be guided by considering the proposals put forward by the Sejm. In other words, we cannot expand the scope of the legal matter that came to us from the Sejm and, vice versa, the Sejm cannot extend it if it is a senate project. And that was a decisive argument when it comes to this discussion. And as for philosophy, whether it should be architects or art historians or people with conservation education... general regulations define it. It was also the question of Senator Borys-Damięcka, whether it is by chance in this act, that if the provincial conservator has to meet certain criteria, then it does not have to be met by a delegate... city, communal or county-dominant, if there is one. Here was an explanation that there is a reference to a law that specifies exactly who can perform this function and what should be the legitimacy of education as well as professional experience. But in turn limiting this catalogue to architects alone would in this case be a way beyond the matter that we can deal with.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u156	Senator George the Hare... [[No, no...]] Oh, Joseph. [[Joseph.]] Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u157	I have three questions. First. The revenues of the National Monument Protection Fund are to come only from penalties specified in the draft law. This implies the extremely restrictive nature of the proposed provisions. Isn't there going to be a question of looking for pretexts to impose penalties? Second question. How will the online auctions of historic objects, which can be found using detectors, be treated in the light of the new rules? And the third... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Who are these questions for?]] Whoever can answer that question. [[The Minister's office.]] And three: what is the procedure for obtaining permission to search using a detector, e.g. In the state forest? [[But to whom is this question addressed?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u158	Okay, Mr. Senator. I have a question about detectors and searchers, too. Did what you said... Because you've rightly noticed the differences between the fee and the penalty. Has this been eliminated? And in general, a situation in which investments carried out not on the site as if they were known archaeologically or historically must be preceded by an archaeological survey... In this case, is it right for you to allow amateurs to explore such sites or not? And was that remark you made about the imbalance in fees and penalties somehow taken into account in this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u159	Mr. Marshal, I'm the committee's rapporteur... [[That's what I'm saying.]] ...and in that particular respect, on this subject, there was no wider discussion on the committee. I merely presented the fact that such a proposal for an amendment was received from an archaeological representative concerned by the actions of people who do not have a fully professional preparation and who enter some area, undertake a search, so that they can simply permanently damage this substance, to which the right approach would have been taken if professionals, specialists had entered there. So those were questions that I really find hard to answer. And as far as I'm concerned... [[I can add, because I remember... your senator wasn't there for a while...]] [[No, I'll ask the Minister.]] So I suggest, Mr. Marshal, to address this question to the Minister, who is the general conservator of monuments. And to answer the questions of Senator Józef Zając, I would like to point out that at the moment the Ministry has about 120 million zlotys to protect the monuments. National Revalorisation Fund for Kraków Monuments And this is such a special solution, lex specialis... It's a big thing that Krakow has this fund, and it's huge. Much has been done thanks to this, Krakow has changed significantly over the last few decades, over 20 years since this fund has been in operation. On the other hand, this fund, which will be set up, according to representatives of the Ministry, may have an amount of 30 million, and thus significantly increase the possibilities for action by 1/4. And as for these penalties, Mr. Senator, it's also an opportunity to appeal against them. It's not a procedure for a voivodship conservator to come in, and he's going to punish somebody with discretion. The main problem in this type of activity concerns the activities of housing developers who acquire antique substances and introduce permanent, irreversible changes for commercial purposes. So the amount of punishment, the 0.5 million... And that's why I'm here to argue with my esteemed colleague, Senator Kobiak, who would like to reduce this punishment to 50,000. Well, Mr. Senator, this may be the situation: it pays me to knock down a facade of some building, because it will increase the commercial revenue from this property, and pay the $50,000 required by law. Anyway, Senator Kobiak said there could be doubts here. So that's what this is all about. But specific questions should, I believe, be addressed to the Minister. As for the search in the woods... I don't know, Senator. I admit I don't know what this situation is like. And that's why I don't want to talk about it. And I don't know, among other things. because there was no speech on this subject during the meeting of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u160	Thank you. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have questions for the rapporteur, Senator Kobiak. Namely, I am referring to this issue for five years. How do you find out in practice? Because the amendment also has to give different possibilities to check if there's any samosas... [[Senator, talk to the microphone. I can't hear you.]] I'm talking to the microphone. [[Maybe a little louder.]] 'Cause maybe somebody's two, three or six years old. How in practice could this be verified? And how did the Minister respond to this amendment? I'm asking you to remind me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u162	Maybe I'll start with the second part of the question. I think the Minister didn't understand the amendment because he answered: it's hard to tell the difference between a semaniac and an insane woman. To me, it's amazing what someone's gonna plant. If someone's gonna plant something, it's hard to cut it off in a minute. Yeah, well, it's a separate theme that's called semantics. [[Everything's protected, and so are the cops.]] Yeah, that's right. And that's what we're different about. I'll tell you how to tell the difference. The age of the cut tree is the easiest to measure after cutting, which is how many jars it has. It's the only way. As I said, the Environmental Protection Act has a midrange... [[These are destructive tests.]] [[It's like killing a man and seeing what he was sick for.]] [[These are destructive tests.]] No. I understand that if somebody cuts down a tree... To prove to him that he was older, just look... [[But it's too late.]] [[And the shrubs have jars?]] Well, I understand that if someone made a decision... What's that? It is better to perform every time to the minister asking if such a bush can be cut out? I understand we're going back to a situation where there'll be a couple of million applications a year to the antique conservationist for cutting out the samosies. Yes? This monument conservator can't rewrite it. Some criteria must be taken: either midrange or age. I'm offering age because in my opinion it's easier to prove to someone that he committed a misdemeanor. The cut tree clearly shows how old it was. But you're right, Senator, it's gonna be over. [[Do shrubs have jars?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u163	You're welcome, Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u164	I'd like to ask the senator... There's some illogicality here. The law is made not only to punish someone, but also to make sure that someone knows whether or not he is committing a forbidden act. Well, someone who's supposed to cut down a tree, but can't tell what age it is... He'll only be able to assess it once he's cut it off, and then it'll be a decision whether or not he'll be punished. It doesn't make any sense by nature. [[That's the neighbor who put him in jail?]] [[Please return...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u165	Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u166	Please note that this concerns... [[Let's just not get into this discussion.]] [[That question was. How do you interpret that? Because it's illogical.]] I'll try to answer that. I interpret it so that the owner of this tree I assume this is the owner or manager of this area. He knows if the tree was planted, whether it grew itself and when. He doesn't have to cut... He knows how old this shrub or this tree is because he knows when it started to grow. If anyone wanted to prove to him, that's how he could... If we were to change this amendment and introduce a diameter there, I would be absolutely in favour. It's just that you don't have to get the conservator's permission to get every samosiole out of the park, out of the path, out of the flower bed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u167	Thank you. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u168	I have a question, but with such a small comment, because I don't understand this Senator's amendment. In the case of each historical object, a plan must be made for the management of the stand. We know perfectly well which trees are and which are not... All the trees that are not included in the plan can be cut out, you don't need to report all this if you reported this plan to the monument conservator and approved it. So this isn't about whether it's about self-sitting or an amazing thing, it's about what's in the plan, what's supposed to grow there. And this, you know what's not supposed to grow, it cuts. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u169	Thank you. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u170	That is the problem of this new law, which absolutely does not refer to the plan, but states that anything will be removed, whether it is in the plan or not... You can't do that. There's punishment. If that were the case, as the senator says, it wouldn't make any sense, of course, but the record in this new law that we're proceeding is unambiguous: every tree and every shrub...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u171	Thank you. There's no more... Oh, Senator Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u172	I didn't get the answer to the question about online auctions of items found. [[It's the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u173	Mr. Senator, can you answer that? [[Voice from the room: What is there to explain?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u174	Dear Senator, there have been questions about yours as well. That I did not give detailed answers to, but this was because it was not discussed at the committee meeting. I think it would be best to ask this question, Minister. She'll give you a competent answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u175	Thank you. [[Senator Fedorovich.]] Senator Fedorovich volunteered? [[Yeah, I volunteered.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u176	First of all... I mean, I know we're in the middle of a question, but my question might be for the Minister, because I think it's possible in this procedure... [[No, not right now. In a minute.]] Now I just want to clear something up because I was running a committee meeting. Thank you for being very precise and very insightful. The result is also these amendments. Except there was an answer from the Undersecretary of State about the detectors. He said there was a threat to it. It's a very common situation. That the searchers are looking in the places where archaeologists work. And that could lead to a situation that I don't have to talk about anymore, because the senators are smart enough to understand what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u177	Would the senator like to comment on that? [[Yes.]] Seekers come in when archaeologists find something, I understand. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u178	Yes, I can confirm what Mr Fedorovich said. That was the answer from the Minister. She was also confirmed by the online opinions I received from representatives of the archaeologists' community. And that's why I emphasized: I don't want to depreciate everyone, because it's a crowd of about 100,000 people who run the search, often tedious. Professional archaeologists simply would not be able to conduct a search in such a vast area. It's a separate subject. But such arguments, of course, were made by Minister Lewandowski during the debate. And in turn there was a Mazowieckie conservator, Barbara Jezierska, who said clearly that among others. The voivodship conservator did not know exactly the location of the fort, Reduta Ordona, which is in Warsaw near the Western Railway Station. It's a historic place. The searchers knew this place perfectly well and could determine it on the map. So, of course, you can't say that this is a negative activity. So that absolutely was not the intention of my speech. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u179	Thank you very much. There are no more requests to ask the senator a question. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. You're welcome, Minister Gawin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u180	I would like to thank you very much for all the comments made to this project and to say that it has indeed been procedated for a very long time, but this has also been due to the fact that this project has been consulted very carefully not only with individual resorts, with ministries, but also with scientific, conservation and archaeologists at every stage. So I can assure you that the individual rules are well thought out. I'd like to start with the detectors, because that's what I've actually been asked several times. I would like to answer this question in full again. Ladies and gentlemen, each time we call it. The treasure hunter must address the voivodship monument conservationist, regardless of where he wants to work, whether there are state forests or not. Such permission costs 86 PLN. The scope of the proposed work should also be defined. This is what we need and what we need to protect the archaeological sites that are at risk right now. I will remind you that it is estimated that in Poland about 100,000 to 150,000 people have detectors and seek, destroying forests, archaeological sites and not asking for permission. This recipe is about one thing. We do not forbid anyone to look for treasures provided that he obeys the law, i.e. that he will report to the voivodship monument conservator and obtain consent regarding the specified scope of works. As far as pathologies related to a completely uncontrolled treasure hunt are concerned, I would like to say that regulations in this area are in every European country and that they simply need to be. As far as Poland is concerned, these pathologies are very clear. One of the senators asked here the question: what about online auctions? The problem is that through the phenomenon of illegal search there are online auctions, on which e.g. buttons from uniforms of illegally exhumed persons. On Allegro there is a trade in personal things, e.g. Exhumed during exhumation. There are mass protests from scientific communities, whose representatives indicate that archaeological sites have been dug up, destroyed. Archaeologists say that part of the artifacts should never be extracted, but should remain in situ. This is for scientific research, for future generations. And we're just destroying history and archaeological culture in the country. Once again, I stress: we are just trying to clarify the rule so that these people come forward and get their consent. The case mentioned by your senator concerns the provincial monument conservationist from Szczecin. Outraged Mrs. Staneck's conservator wrote us a letter and informed us that the detector was searching for objects without the permission of the provincial antiquities conservator and took possession of the property found. All that is in the earth is the property of the State Treasury. For this he was punished with a fine of PLN 50. That's 36 PLN less than the legal consent fee. So much for detectors. We are talking about a certain limitation of this phenomenon, an elementary honesty that should be shown by the citizen, defining the scope of the work. It's done, Dear Senators, Dear Senator... I guess that's how it changes. In the interwar years, it was such an idea to call MEPs. I understand that the senator's form is a good form. I'd like to say that when it comes to antique parks, I understand that this was the subject of the discussion here. There is no change in this respect. Every historic park, every historic park complex was subject to strict protection of the conservator and there could not be cut out any tree, nor a samosiejka, nor an insane one. It doesn't come in at all... There's no change in this area. Let me remind you that these historic parks differ from the reserves, that they are constantly cleaned and weeded and that there are constantly regulated compositions. This isn't a reservation. And the discussion is not about the area we are talking about here. Conservation protection of greenery is needed, please countries, because Poland should apply the law that applies in the west of Europe. We assume that the monument is not a single object, it is also the surroundings of the object. Therefore, the decision of the voivodship monument conservator is really needed here. Such decisions are never issued by the general conservator of monuments. It is in the hands of the provincial monument conservator. I will say one more thing: no antique conservator has ever received any writing, that there are some problems with making decisions and that there are too many. I've already told you about detectors and antique parks. About the National Monument Protection Fund... Let me remind you that this idea appeared in a conservation environment in the 1970s. Since the 1990s individual resolutions of the Council for the Protection of Monuments have been adopted. The last Council for the Protection of Monuments also expressed its support for this idea. The National Monument Protection Fund will be maintained with administrative penalties as well as with references. We changed the record about the relationships, because the settlement that the court could decide was calculated, for example. When it was destroyed some monument. That was up to 30 times the minimum wage. We've made a change, and now this relationship will be calculated according to the value of the destroyed monument. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem we have when it comes to the protection of monuments is mainly that the law is either dead or it is not respected at all. I have already said several times that we lost a very large resource of monuments not at all in the years 1945 and 1989... Then we lost, but we lost many monuments especially in the 1990s and later. We talked about the size of the punishment. I'd like to say something now, if I may... I don't know, Mr. Marshal, could I also refer to the conclusions put forward by... [[Yes, please.]] We talked about the punishments. In the minority's motion, I read the sentence in the article. Point 21 of Article 1 107d in the mouth. One, four, this upper penalty, 500,000 zlotys to be converted into 50 thousand zlotys. Dear Senators, if we had made such an amendment, we would not have achieved the goal, that is, this bill would have been still dead. Why don't I tell you how... Recently, recently, a few weeks ago, I had a situation in Santa Claus that the owner of the monument It was a monument, attention, not a registered one, but a registered one, covered by the highest form of protection, entered the square and destroyed the monument within a few hours without any permits, without anything. The case went to the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office gave it to the police, the police dropped the investigation, and the district court then agreed with the police. Then the owner of the monument, really after the crime the justice system failed He asked me to remove this object from the heritage register. This is what it looks like in Poland to circumvent the law. Moreover, the general conservator of monuments is completely powerless, because legally, if there is no monument, I should delete it. And now, ladies and gentlemen, this punishment of PLN 50,000... Very often the owner of these entire historical bands, e.g. The Tsar barracks, they're not a single person, they're just a company. If a private person or a company is at risk of punishment of PLN 50,000, then believe me, they will simply put it into the cost. When we talked about the amount of punishment, all those who knew the problem were even asking for a higher penalty because it had to scare away. We should send a clear signal that it doesn't count. That is why I think, with all my determination, that it is imperative that we maintain this higher level of punishment, 500 thousand PLN. I could now invoke Zakopane and one of the villas that was destroyed. It was a registered monument. Actually, there's nothing we can do. And these situations of complete impunity repeat themselves. There was no agreement. Not a regional conservator or anybody. I know these punishments are gonna scare the shit out of you. Believe me, those who commit these kinds of crimes know the law and know how they can simply be avoided. I think a lot of these people wouldn't use antique demolition equipment anymore because they'd know they'd just have to pay for it. Then there was also a suggestion to add a point: who destroys, damages, or allows it to be destroyed or damaged by failing to act, is punishable by imprisonment from 6 months to 8 years. I would like to say yes: I understand the purpose of this amendment, but I believe that we cannot accept it for two reasons. First of all, according to the article. 108 Act on the protection of monuments can be committed both by action and by omission. So this recipe is already very clear. But, moreover, in the revised Code of Administrative Procedure Perhaps it is not yet more well-known... The parties, which believe that, I do not know, an organ such as the voivodship monument conservator does not make decisions in time, now have an additional instrument, i.e. a reminder of the authority. And I think in this situation that we have... There's also an art. 38, which refers to official responsibility. And this applies to WKZ as much as possible, i.e. to the voivodship monument conservators. We cannot make a specific provision for a specific provision. It's just that it is, but you have to use it skillfully. Then I would just like to remind you, now that we're talking about the voivodship monument conservators and their responsibility... We also talked about administrative penalties. Because let us remember that for actions that are not in accordance with the recommendations or contrary to the recommendations of the conservator, there is a penalty from PLN 500 to PLN 50,000. And let us also remember that in the revised Code of Administrative Procedure, we have a measure of penalties. We can withdraw from the penalty, completely, e.g. if we are dealing with specific situations. Sometimes it happens that the owners of monuments recover monuments completely devastated in the years of the Polish People's Republic. So it's hard to punish them, force them to carry the weight of this renovation. If, for example, There has been a disaster as a result of, say, winds, just third forces, then you can either waive the penalty or adjust it. As far as the attitude of the provincial monument conservators is concerned, I would like to address all senators with an appeal. We have a completely different situation. They're just gonna be worried about using these penalties, because in those, I'd say... It is also a certain environmental pressure or any other, it is also a certain responsibility. Let us also remember one thing: the penalty imposed by the provincial monument conservator is subject to two-instant proceedings. So then it can be sent... You can challenge that decision to me, first of all, and second of all, then you can sue it to the provincial administrative court. And it goes on to the Supreme Administrative Court. So that here is preserved this two-instant way of doing things. Dear Senator, Dear Senators, we have this last point that concerns trees or shrubs. And here was the proposal to add older than 5 years. I'd like to clarify a few points. First of all, as I said, these laws do not apply to historical parks at all, because here, in this area, the law is exactly the same. But now let's imagine some Japanese, I don't know, a composing park that consists of shrubs that aren't five years old at all and that could just be ripped out... It's even from such a conservative point of view completely unacceptable. I would like to address one more question which, as I know, at the previous meeting of the committee, very much attracted your attention, namely, who might be the voivodship conservationist of monuments. And here was a proposal from SARP so it could be just an architect. I value SARP very much, I work very closely with architects, because I think that there should be no antagonism between conservators and architects, but rather understanding. But I'll say I'm absolutely against it. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: But it wasn't. That's not there.]] [[This has not been reported.]] You didn't, but there were still voices here. So I'm just talking about it. And I'm really glad that what I'm saying is understandable because monuments aren't a matter of Only architecture. This is the whole history of art. That's the whole story at all. You can't close someone's access to the function of a voivodship antiquities conservator or a conservator on the basis of a very specific direction of study. I know excellent conservators who are conservators after art history, archaeology or history. In addition, I pay attention to one more element Because I know that this postulate somehow comes back strangely, that architects also operate on the market, as you know. And we cannot create architects working for developers from one professional group, and at the same time, on the other hand, conservators. That's it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Don't go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u182	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you. I have already asked the Senator of the rapporteur this question. It is about dualism when it comes to sanctions against people who break the law. Is he necessary? Because it's expensive if there are two proceedings in one case and the final one is that whoever decides first... I mean, there can't be two punishments in one case, and because there can't be two punishments... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Exactly.]] ...it's settled by a procedure that will end sooner. Would it not be better to reduce the costs of two proceedings and to harmonise the system of consequences for those who break the law? And the second question is your attitude towards the amendment tabled by Senator Kobiak about the omission that causes destruction within protected monuments. Don't you think that such an additional tool in the form of administrative penalties would simply serve to protect monuments? And I would like to ask you in this context about the omissions within the vastly understood Treasury of the objects that are on the Board of the Treasury. E.g. We know. You mentioned it yourself. Over the past many years, the landmarks of the Agricultural Property Agency of the State Treasury have been subject to and continue to be destroyed. Would not the tools proposed by the Platform to include the nullification of the omission be an effective tool in the fight against such tolerance against the destruction of national culture, national heritage, etc.? And what's the scale... I'm sure you mean your office has it cataloged somehow. How many properties are currently in the resources of the Agricultural Property Agency of the State Treasury and in what condition are they? And what procedures do you apply to public entities tolerating the destruction of historic objects that are on their management board?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u183	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u184	I think I've already answered that last question. I very clearly said that... I understand the intention of this question and I fully agree with that intention, but that there is a very clear interpretation in the legal culture and we cannot break the law by extending it to the so-called. common sense of the law. This act is forbidden both by action and omission. Every lawyer and every voivodship conservator will understand it that way. Second, I was talking about this, I was talking about the revised K.P.A. Act. And thirdly, I also said that... I think... I mean, I don't think so, but I'm absolutely sure that for every administrative lawyer and for the regional monument conservationists who, I'll remind you, will be trained... everyone will be trained because this law comes into force on 1 January 2018... and there's just no reason to add this recipe. I understand the right intention, but it's already written down legally. I mean, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Maybe I'll just clarify the problem one more time. Disruption may also consist of, for example, that we don't do the most necessary rescue work. Right? It could be a foil of a leaking roof, it could be clearing moss gutters or other things like that, but it's all basically under the destruction of the monument. So there's really no need to fill in that recipe here. The senator asked about dualism. I will say that there is no duality, and the transitional provision is very clear about it. There are administrative penalties which are ruled by the provincial monument conservators for certain things. Like, uh... Voivodship monument conservator will control and list 3 or 4 types of works which the entity that is either the manager or the owner must perform, and these works will not be carried out, then administrative penalties are involved. But for the destruction of the monument, these are already punishments set out in the Penal Code, that's completely another kind of punishment, so to speak. And I don't think there's any duality or collision here. Thank you. [[Thank you very much...]] [[Mr. Marshal, there was also a question about the resources of the State Treasury and about the historic objects that have been destroyed over the last years, and about the actions of the conservator.]] Mr. Senator, I don't have the data on me to accurately illustrate what kind of heritage the Treasury has. But I'll tell you, our biggest problem, the one I'm watching. And I usually observe the worst cases, unfortunately, because these are cases of deletion applications, also cases of destruction of monuments... The biggest problem here was rather common in the 1990s, after the fall of communism, i.e. during the transformation of the system, the disposal of heritage by local governments. This heritage was given into private hands, and unfortunately very often it was so that either it was brought to a complete ruin, or it was transformed. So here's the problem. Those rules that we design will be for the owners, and for the managers. And I'm not doing it here. And I don't think that the provincial conservators have any differences either. All I can say is that these laws will help us to finally respect the law so that the legacy will finally be appreciated. Because we just have an absolute problem with law enforcement, and we really need those rules to change reality. I even think that they will help less people destroy the monuments, because the law is also a deterrent. And that's what we're counting on.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u185	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u186	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you... I'd like to ask you two questions. First question: what's the permit for cutting out, let's say, 100 samosies on the ground... What does this type of permission look like on the part of the owner of the facility? Explain that to us. 'Cause if it's like one of the senators said, which means you can apply for permission at the same time for a group of objects, a self-incarcerated... I'll talk to you later because your examples of Japanese gardens are very good, but... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: With everyone, Senator.]] Not with everyone... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: With everyone. This law does not change at all in this respect.]] But that's what we were talking about. Why doesn't it change? This was also mentioned at the committee meeting, which means that sometimes when amending the law is introduced, it is also worth improving certain matters and doing so in accordance with suggestions. So I'd like you to tell me exactly what the permit that the owner of the facility gives to remove the plant in the property he owns. Second question. But I'm asking you... Because you said you didn't have that kind of data in general, but maybe you have knowledge. 'Cause it's been a year and a half since you're a minister. - about how you enforce yourself with e.g. companies of the Treasury or agricultural agencies of the Treasury activities resulting from certain omissions. I mean, it looks like... Because we know that there are cases, and I could give examples. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Me too.]] I come from Dolnośląskie voivodship, where we have a what you know very well Just an excess of this kind of situation. This isn't just about local governments selling things and stuff. - Well, then we know. But it's also about individuals, because sometimes the individual person who owns it is punished, etc. Understand the senators' intentions: we also want the state institutions to take care of it. And you're saying that you don't have a record of how much that is and how it looks. However, I would ask you to say this, if you remember, and to provide us in writing with data on how much intervention there has been in the last year and a half in the case of State Treasury companies or the Agricultural Property Agency, etc., and what they looked like. Because it doesn't have to be a punishment or a motion for prosecution, it could be a question or a question from a conservator or a ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the problem of semantics has dominated our discussion today, so I will try again to explain this issue, explain it. All designed greens, which are not only found in Japanese gardens, are strictly protected. In the case of any tree that is removed from the area of the historic park, an application must be submitted to the provincial monument conservator. [[Every single one of them?]] Yes. What's the change here? We have written that throughout the area entered in the register of monuments, the area that is protected is also protected by greenery. Mrs. Senator, there's really no way to distinguish between the so-called. self-sitting country uses this term From strictly composed green. It's just impossible to say. We have strictly composed green only in the case of manor houses or palaces, and not always. Very often the monument is surrounded by greenery, which we consider to be antique, because it creates an environment of the monument. And the introduction of this law would open the way for cutting down these trees. We want to protect them because of the value of the monument. The monument is not a single object, it is its surroundings and we want to protect it. I don't really know how to understand the question... Do you want me to describe what the application for the provincial monument conservator looks like? [[Yes. Please describe the procedure to be followed by the owner.]] You must request permission from the provincial monument conservator. That's it. [[Individually for cutting out every bush or tree?]] No. One conclusion can determine how many trees there are, what kind of trees they are and why you want to cut them out. Voivodship conservationists now issue such permissions. There are some cuts that need to be made Bathing, rescue, related to storms. I have to say, I've never received any complaints in this regard. When it comes to the stock of monuments, which is in the possession of the State Treasury... I will say that 76 thousand monuments are entered in the register of monuments. Some of them actually belong to the State Treasury. As far as I'm concerned, I'm saying this based on the observation of what happened in the two years that the senator mentioned. The problem arises from non-compliance with the law. I could cite here some examples of correspondence between voivodship conservationists and their owners or persons who manage monuments from which nothing was apparent, because the courts did not react, the prosecution did not react and the police did not react. And the resource is destroying. And that is why we want to make this amendment to prevent it. Dear Senators, in terms of persons who were held liable in 2014 and 2016 for conscious destruction of monuments, it seems that there have been 60 convictions, except that only a few, 6 or 8, have been punished. I am talking about the years 2014, 2015, 2016, about 3 years. It seems that this is very little, and the historical resource is unfortunately destroyed. I don't know if the senator is satisfied with that answer. [[Yes. Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u188	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u189	Minister, it's a good thing there's a bill. We've been waiting for these changes. They're important. The problem is that there is no dispute among people for whom the monument is valuable. There were two committees yesterday. One concerned the protection of Polish monuments and heritage abroad It was a very important committee meeting. And the other was the next one. Of course, if the protection of monuments was as we imagined, we would not have any problems arising from what is happening abroad. This is a dispute between a group of people or environments for which the monument is an obstacle, e.g. an obstacle to building something by a developer. We know that. Therefore, the bill has changed, which we have been demanding for a long time, and not only our group, concerning the submission of the provincial conservators to the main conservator of monuments. There has been such a delicate change in the article. 30. Which means... because it was the other way around. Now the voivodship monument conservator will be cancelled by the voivode at the request of the general monument conservator. And before that, the voivode could have called him off and just asked for permission. Well, I'm reading here... so far the voivodeship monument conservator is calling and calling off the voivode with the consent of the general conservator... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Right? We changed that bill that we voted for. Tell me, is this voivodship landmark conservator really in subjection to the main monument conservator, or does the voivode take care of him? 'Cause if the voivode gets some pressure, depending on who's in charge, you'd have to do something... It might turn out that the cause of that environment will prevail, even though we, the people who are for heritage and beauty, will be opposed to it. About this recipe for now... then I'll have one more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u190	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for these questions. I know that this is primarily about the so-called. Disassembly of conservation services. I would like to say that this is really very unfair to me and this amendment, that... first of all, the change is not small. We have a lot of different issues here, for example. with the appointment of Heads of Delegation who will be appointed at my request or with my consent. I'm sorry I'm speaking for mine, but it's a general monument conservationist. As you know, we have a big problem with delegations that haven't changed for many, many years, sometimes even decades. As for this intercourse, he's changing. The governor shall appoint at my request from among the... the candidate who shall be indicated by the general conservationist of the monuments. Note: he may also cancel it at the request of the general monument conservator. So, in fact, the voivodship antiquities conservator is dependent on the general conservator. And now, Mr. Senator... I'd like to explain it, because there's a charge, and the question is why we didn't lead to a complete disassembly of the conservation services. [[Exactly.]] Here's what I'm gonna say. At first, I was in favour of this solution until I started working and I saw this problem simply from the point of view of practice. The Voivodeship oversees the local government. Most of the problems we have today are due to a lack of self-government awareness, some pathologies that are sometimes in local environments. In these situations, I believe that the voivode plays such an auxiliary role towards the general conservationist of monuments. I can ask the opposite: what would we have obtained if we had completely separated these services, that is, if every voivodship conservationist of monuments was completely subject to me? I'd call him up and cancel him. What would be the benefit? Imagine that being in the central office in Warsaw, I really don't know what happens in different voivodships in a 37-million-dollar country. This is a fiction that we... I understand the intention of thinking that one person from Warsaw is to control everything, but I would like to say that he cannot. I can't have from one point, from the ministry, all the knowledge about what's going on in different voivodships. I really think that any general conservator who comes after me, the voivods should be of assistance and advice. They have a deeper knowledge of what is happening. We have removed one, in my opinion, very harmful, provision that the good or bad will of the voivode depends either on being a conservator or not being a conservator. He's being protected by the general monument conservator at the moment. I wouldn't want to take him out completely of this complex administration structure for the reasons I've been telling you about. We have a really big problem with local governments right now. We know that we will be training local government officials from this year on. This is a really good way, because on the one hand there must be law, on the other hand there must be education and awareness. We have not trained local authorities so far, but they are making local plans, after all they have at their disposal a city, district etc., it depends very much on their attitude and awareness. So I'm going to tell you that I'm going to be working on this, too, so that we can look at the legacy a little differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u192	Thank you very much. To speak, to ask a question, please, Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the national heritage is a great treasure, and I really liked what the Minister said that the law must be the law. I would suggest not to divide monuments into national and private, because it doesn't work. Yes, it is certainly a bigger problem for voivodship conservationists of monuments is the state monument, contrary to appearances, because it is easy to impose punishment on a private owner, and on the state for various reasons it is difficult. If the Minister maintains that the law is to be the law, and there will be training, and the conservators of the province will begin to impose penalties on everyone, but not just penalties... This is a little bit of a continuation of what Senator Libicki asked. The biggest problem is not to. I'm not that expert right now. I used to take care of monuments, I had such a court-parking team, but I guess there's a record that if someone doesn't spend any money on the monument in 5 years, then a voivodeship conservator can do something about it, I don't remember it so well anymore, but I think he can make it sell. Meanwhile, I haven't heard of any voivodship conservator... I'm from Lublin, and I can see that there are old houses that you don't do anything with. There are owners... It's not that they've secured this monument from the rain because they've only protected it from the rain, but they're still not doing anything about it. The point is that the voivodship conservator has an impact on the force to act. Right? Tell them to announce the bidding. I don't know what form of sales it's supposed to be, but there's gonna be someone who's gonna buy it, and often it's just that it's just standing there, eating doesn't cry out, so let's just stand there. Except it doesn't add value to our heritage. Then, each year, such a monument will cost more. So that the impact on these monuments... If that's the case with the new law, I'll be very pleased. Now it's about the samosas. I just don't get it at all. Having a park, I had a plan to manage a tree state, that's what it was called, I had a plan to manage a tree state, and I knew which trees I wasn't allowed to move, and everything that was called. What's a samosas? The samos grow every year because these seeds are and every year they grow... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin:...Among the oaks are self-seated, right?]] Some trees... I cut out a tree that had a diameter of 40 cm because it was self-sitting. There was a return to the 19th century park, and that tree was not there, there was not this tree, and it was described as a samosiejka. So if there's a tree-state management... The State has only one way to influence this, i.e. tax exemption. There's annual control of the building, the park, and if anyone wants to do it, they manage properly, there's no problem. I often find that people say, "Oh, it's a problem." No. If you follow the instructions of the monument conservator, there is no problem. So there's no change in the new legislation that we're talking about right now. If there's a tree management plan, I'm following that plan. Thank you very much. Oh, I have one more question, most importantly. I'm sorry. I'm just kind of in the middle of something. I'm afraid you're... Maybe. We've differentiated parks into private and non-private parks. I think there is a huge problem here, because there are private parks in Poland for which no subsidies can be applied for because nobody wants to give them anything. Can the Minister see any way for private parks? This is all our legacy. It's a private park, isn't it? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Yes, of course.]] He used to be someone's, now he's someone's, he's gonna be someone's, but he's in Poland and he's our legacy. Is there any way to get a grant for these private parks? Because as far as I know, that's not the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u194	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u195	Thank you very much for raising these questions. I will say this: unfortunately, in the old regulations there was no and there is no new way that the voivodeship conservationist of monuments could force the owner or owner of the monument, who does not deal with this monument to sell it. Of course, we hope that if the voivodeship monument conservator can impose administrative penalties and if the monument is actually perceived as a value and not as a way to, I would say, acquire a building plot... Well, I hope that this attitude towards monuments will simply change, that people will also buy such monuments to save them. As far as private and non-private parks are concerned, it seems to me that this problem is wider, because it is just a part of the historical resource that is in private hands. I'll tell you more. Well, it seems to me that we have such a natural tendency to demand that you buy everything. And we can't bear it in the context of a whole collection of registered monuments if it's all you buy. That's impossible at all. And it's about getting this effect that private owners will be buying monuments and taking care of them. There is only one issue here, and it is not at the level of the amendment of the law, but actually at the level of regulations concerning obtaining or e.g. Trying to... [[...the EU funds.]] Yeah, about grants or any form of grants. Right? So we've already introduced a change that says that a private entity can get some kind of grant, of course, to save the monument, but only if it makes it available to visitors in time for 28 days. [[In total?]] Yes, up to 28 days, in some cases there may be even more. It's such an English variant, I think he's very good. [[But it's already in the new bill?]] No, it's already at the regulation level, just at the regulation level. However, this is very important. We are also fighting to ensure that owners of these types of facilities, who have benefited from state subsidies and any other subsidies, place very clear tablets on what days visitors can use this monument. And this is really good. Here this English password works: the legacy is for everyone and forever. And that's how we have to treat the legacy. Thank you very much for this vote that the division into private and non-private is How do I say this? It's a secondary one. Because this is about keeping it for generations to come. It seems to me that this budget of ours for the preservation of monuments is so small that every time we have to be very limited. Right? Historic Kraków. I look here at... No, the senator's already gone. The historic Kraków has an annual budget of 30 million, and for the whole of Poland we have 120 million, so this is really not enough. But it seems to me that there are no obstacles here that even private owners of historic parks would apply as much as possible, yes. For such grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u196	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u197	Minister, I'll remind you, for the third time, that's my previous second question, because I don't think I've got an answer, at least I can't set it up. But I'd like to make another point. I would like to express some wisdom, namely: the right to decide is linked to the responsibility. When there is no such implication, especially on conservation grounds, there are many damage in the area of monuments, especially when the conservator is very conservative. Well, I've been dealing with a restaurant in a park for a while. What I did and did With an area of more than 5 hectares, with beautiful old trees. Of course, it cost a lot of nerves and, of course, saying things like, "You're not gonna get out of prison for the rest of your life." etc. Well, then it turned out that the actions were accurate, the park continues until now, looks beautiful. But when we walked into that abandoned yard park, it was a tragedy, because you couldn't stand anywhere without stepping on the vermin. When we cut out the bushes, some year-old, two-year-old, it was a charge that we were destroying the green fleece. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But in the area of the East, it's about the Chełm region, and I'm watching a lot of remains, where there are buildings from old times. When you pass or drive, the heart is just a country. I would just like to mention: Żjanne, the Royal Depulty, Krupe, Horinec and many others. I'm just gonna talk about one thing, about Horyńc. When you walk in the back of the building and you want to see what the park looks like, you get weak because in a year, two of them won't be able to get through. When I ask those who care about this park, why everything grew so much, I hear you mustn't move anything, because you preserve the monuments. Wouldn't it be wise to take a reasonable approach here and balance that... people aren't really trying to destroy everything, but you have to give them a chance, not just on a Russian basis they won't give it, not a lie, and whatever, man, you're gonna do, we're gonna drag you to court. I think it would be worth thinking about a certain balance between what the new law gives, in terms of the possibility of stopping, and the opening of opportunities for those who could lift up these dying monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u198	Maybe I'll answer in one sentence. Of course, the monument conservator should build a positive relationship with a private owner of some historic object or park or property. This is a very important issue, which has been discussed many times in meetings with monument conservationists. It is unacceptable that the preservation of monuments discourages the owner in principle from taking care of this object. I can tell you that we will do everything we can to make this relationship change. There must be conservation indications, there's a doctrine. You have to listen to this conservator, unfortunately, but I think it's a very important problem. I can only promise to take care of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u199	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u200	The Minister, when it comes to semantics, I will no longer ask... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Good.]] ...in that case. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm talking about the location of the voivodship antiquities conservator. I have good experience working with a regional conservator. For eight years I worked with one who retired, then another came. It was a very good cooperation. But you have to make up your mind about something. Either it's a joint administration, or it's an independent administration, or it's a subordinate minister. And if it is a complex administration, it is subject to voivodeship, or voivodship indicates With the consent of the general conservator, of course, a person who will be a voivodship conservationist of monuments. And what you were quoting... Until now, it was in the act that the voivodship monument conservator appointed and cancelled the voivodship with the consent of the general monument conservator. Now, this change... I quote: The Provincial Monument Preserver appoints the voivode at the request of the General Monument Preserver indicating the candidate for this position. Well, he doesn't call, he doesn't have anything to say, but he has a designated person by the antique conservator. So it's a non-complicated administration. This is not in accordance with the principles of integrated and non-integrated administration. I will no longer refer to the appeal, because here we are also talking about the fact that the provincial monument conservator cancels the voivode at the request of the general conservator or with his consent. So here's what I'm gonna say... It doesn't have any effect on it. But there's another curial thing. There's still point 3. I will make amendments to delete both what I have read at the moment and this point 3. It's about the heads of the delegation of the Voivodship Antiquities Protection Office. Delegates are the competence of the provincial monument conservator to determine which places these delegations are in and how to read it... I quote the record: the director of the delegation of the Provincial Antiquities Protection Office appoints and cancels the Provincial Monument Preserver at the request of the General Monument Preserver or with his consent. Well, if we're talking about a voivodship administration... If the general conservator of monuments interferes up to the level of the head of the regional delegation, because without it we do not deal with the joint administration. You had to decide, to unplug it, to say that it was an unintegrated administration, and then there would be no problem at all. Integrated administration in voivodship It's a lot, a lot of other units. And now you're setting an example, you're setting an example in advance for the other voivodships, for the other services, for the guards, for the inspection to go your way. In my opinion, this road is inappropriate, and I will therefore apply for deletion of these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u201	Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u202	I'd like to say yes. Of course, I do not agree with the senator's opinion that this is no longer a complex administration. I would like to say that even in this joint administration, this node with the voivode can be stronger or looser, it is only a matter of the right legal provision. However, I would like to say one thing: we wanted this effect. And here all the parliamentary clubs were behind it, because our problems were precisely because... Mr. Senator, it can't be that for a few years the general conservator has been getting negative, unambiguous negative results from the control of NIK and can't do anything about the provincial monument conservator. [[A vampire from some other government? I don't understand...]] It's not that. The point is that the minister responsible for these matters, dealing with some space that is simply in its power, should have power. And it's perfectly natural. This is, I believe, a very good solution, supported, as I said, by all clubs. This is simply due to the observation and analysis of the reality in which we have a problem. Mr. Senator asked about the Heads of Delegation. Here I can say And that's what I'm saying with absolute certainty. The problems are also that there has been no change for many years, that we have some local conditions that have caused a lot of irregularities. Therefore, these changes are desirable, they are simply necessary. We have the most decisions that were fatal. Let me remind you: about six months ago was the decision of the delegation in Konin to tear down the building from the second half of the 19th century. The bulldozer came in and demolished it in a few hours, and the rubble was cleaned up so fast that I didn't have time to send the officials there, and we still wanted this... There was still a question of whether there was something overbuilt after the war in the 1960s or not. But they did it so fast. Believe me, I really have a problem with some of the Heads of Delegation. There haven't been any changes in 25 years. Well, these are things. It's unthinkable. And if it is natural now that the Home Minister has a field of action, then the same field of action should have a general monument conservator. I explained just now why I wasn't in favour of complete disassembly, but leaving it in such a arrangement is simply contrary to the objectives of this amendment. [[Can I ad vocem?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u203	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u204	Minister, I don't know if you've managed any units or if you've been a director of a company or run any team, but... you've got a voivodeship in your government, you've got a voivodship landlord, and you've got a representative in the voivodship. We're talking about delegations right now. If you can't change the head of the delegation, you're changing the provincial landmark conservator. This is a clear and obvious matter. That's what teamwork is all about. Therefore, what you said is unacceptable to me. Of course, you didn't convince me. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: I just wish I could, Mr. Senator... Can I answer now?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u205	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u206	I would like to remind you that with regard to the Heads of Delegation, this is the statement: we say that they are appointed at the request of the general conservator or with his consent. So that the voivodship antiquities conservator... Of course, I very much like to leave wide competence to the provincial conservationists of monuments, because they have full knowledge of the area in which they operate. So this gate is completely open. I think that this is a very good recipe and that it will certainly serve monuments. And finally, the general conservationist of monuments And me, and those who come after me will not be just a decoration. So that I cannot accept these comments. I believe that they are wrong, I would say, at the level of diagnosis of problems with heritage and monuments. But we can be beautifully different, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kobiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u208	Minister, if you don't mind... Your answer to the question of whether individual consent should be sought for each tree, for each shrub, was not quite precise. I would like to inform you that you have to request permission for each, because, when applying for permission, you have to indicate exactly where this plant is located. Therefore, this applies to each plant, it needs to be defined precisely, so it cannot be done in a team, it needs to be done individually. But the problem is something else. I understand that we may differ as to what the bill should look like. That's half of poverty, that's our law. But we're different about how to read this bill. And I have the impression that me and Mr. Senator have a completely different interpretation of this bill. It would be good for us to get out of here, even though we have a common opinion on what this bill can and can't do. Therefore, I apologize, but I will ask a very specific question and expect a specific answer: yes or no. If in the park, which is historic, on the path of 5 clones grows, the owner has the right to cut them out without the consent of the conservator, is he not entitled? We're assuming they're annual or 2-year-olds. Response I'd like that very much. Yes or no.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u209	Okay, so now I'm going to say again, and according to the old wording of the bill, and according to the new Yeah. There are no changes here, I repeat, Senator. [[So you're saying you need permission?]] Yes. I'm the only one who's gonna say one more thing. If you believe that every single tree is applied to the provincial monument conservator, then this is obviously a mistake. You come up with a conclusion in which you can describe 30 and 40 trees, describe what kind of trees they are and what kind of trunk circumference they have. [[And I need to attach a map where I can show you the location of every tree.]] Or a photo, it doesn't have to be a map. [[Unfortunately, I've been through this, and I got an answer from the maintenance guy that I have to.]] Mr. Senator, I'm the conservator, and I'm here to protect the ancient green. There's no change here. We're really talking... I think this is the third time we've been going back to the painful problem of self-sitting in historic areas. I stress once again: this amendment does not make any changes in this area. [[So you're confirming that in the case of a one-year-old, you have to have permission to cut. Yes or no?]] [[With the bushes it'll cut out together.]] [[Voice from the room: He's gonna sew.]] Mr. Senator, the antique park isn't a reservation. That's where you rake paths, you get better lawns, that's where you cut green. What are you talking about? That's where you mow. They're... [[Is it okay or not? The answer is simple.]] Slowly. [[Slow to cut without the conservator's permission?]] Yeah, slow. [[Good.]] Weeds are free to rip, remove what's grown... [[No, no, I'm talking about the trees and shrubs mentioned in this bill.]] Mr. Senator, there's an example. park in the bathrooms, you can see how it is nurtured. It is also a historic park, completely inscribed in the register of monuments. [[The Minister's answer is enough for me.]] Thank you very much. [[Slow to cut...]] [[Don't cut, mow.]] [[How you mow every year...]] [[It is allowed to cut out a one-year or two-year-old car without the permission of the monument conservator. Thank you very much.]] As a caretaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u210	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u211	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am very pleased that you support the view that whether the owner of the monument is a private person or a legal person or a state, it is important that this monument is properly protected. And I fully agree with that opinion as well. I believe that sharing monuments according to owners is not entirely reasonable and logical. And in this context, first of all, I would like to ask you to answer in writing because you were unable to answer my earlier question. And it's understandable to answer that. Because the actions taken by the conservator and conservators of the voivodship towards the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury, which at the moment is probably the largest owner or manager of manor houses, palaces, park and palace teams, which are not always properly protected, in the context of omissions have their meaning. What is your view of coming up with a legislative initiative to change the new agricultural law that prohibits land trafficking above 3,000 m2? This applies to a large extent to the Agricultural Property Agency, which therefore does not sell to private individuals destructive monuments. And yet, since we do not insist that the entity that owns it is important, we could start the sale, of course under certain rigors, so that when we buy it there is a guarantee of conservation work. That's the first question. And the second question is about the National Monument Protection Fund, to which, as you said, an estimated amount of about PLN 30 million will be affected by administrative penalties. This is about what the National Revalorisation Fund of Krakow receives. It seems that, in the case of a fund that would concern landmarks across the country, this amount is not sufficient to a significant extent. Do you not think that this fund should be strengthened by other influences, from other areas that would give a chance, to give a tool to really improve the state of the monuments not only in Krakow, but also in all the rest of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u212	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u213	Senator, in answer to the last question, I will say that not only can I, but I want to, and I have a concrete plan, but I would like to talk about these plans at the stage of the discussion on the development of the National Monument Protection Fund. I'm glad you noticed that this isn't a big amount yet. I'm just gonna tell you what we need her for. We don't have any money now for the necessary security work, e.g. at the site that burned down, it burned down partially, the object from which the rainstorm lifted the roof. There are about a dozen such cases a year, and then I don't have any money. And that's the most painful part. 'Cause, you know, like... There are still situations where it happens in some very small village, where there really is no money, and the province is in general very poor in terms of this fund. So I hope that now I will have the intervention money, they are very much needed. Second, we're gonna want to use that money for security work, too. In other words, the voivodship conservationists of monuments will perform to us in such monuments that we must protect from winter, otherwise they will simply be destroyed. So I hope that this National Monument Protection Fund will develop, will serve the next generations of Poles and, I say absolutely honestly, just all Members and Senators, because you all have monuments in your area and we all want to protect them. As for this real estate agency... property... [[Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury.]] Yes. ...I only want to say one thing. The provincial conservator assumes equality between entities. It may not treat owners differently depending on who is the managing body. But we hope that this is what will be very disciplined by the entities that manage these properties. Because I just don't hide that it's very often such a holding game that the monument completely collapses to have a plot for construction, because these are very often building plots. So that's what we want to say, to bring this situation to a happy finale, to an end. I hope so. I'm sorry, I'm lost. I don't know... Was there another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u214	Mr. Marshal, let me remind you that this is also about the agricultural system bill that prohibits sales... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: I know, but...]] ...farm real estate with an area of more than 3 000 m2 and often, actually, under the principle of manor and palace are much larger and those which are of the nature of agricultural parcels or parts of which are agricultural are not subject to private sales. And yet... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: But I have the impression that...]] ...private individuals often manage better than the state or repair better than the state.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u215	I would just like to say that just this year in such an annual competition, the well-maintained monument gave a distinction to a private owner who actually refurbished the palace with his own money. He's done it for many years, it's cost him a lot of effort. This is a form that we really should pay attention to, and encourage people to buy monuments. And if you're talking about this law prohibiting the purchase of land, I think it's agricultural land, that's my impression, and that's completely outside the scope of this law. [[There are different plots.]] Usually the park is entered in the register of monuments along with the palace, with the court. And I think it's out of the...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u216	But there are different plots. Minister, there are different plots. Often they are forest, agricultural and not all are entered in the register of monuments, and they are a natural background for a palace or a manor house. Well, that's an aspect I'm paying attention to because... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Good.]] ...the surroundings of the monument also matter, doesn't it? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: It is very important. I agree.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u217	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have such a question about the article. 1 point 2 of the amended law. Namely, it is reserved that from the date of initiation of the procedure concerning the registration of the monument to the date on which the decision becomes final, all actions... no, maintenance, repair, etc. are prohibited. With this monument. I have this question: is it true that this procedure on the registration of monuments can take years, and at that time the monument will completely destroy? Because that was also the charge at the committee's hearing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u219	I'll tell you why we put in that recipe. Ladies and gentlemen, conservation services are small services. Not all valuable and historic objects are entered in the register of monuments. Often it was that we saw, we got the landmark conservators received the signal that the object was to be demolished, I don't know, in 2 or 3 days. And then they made such a hasty entry of an object into the heritage register just to protect it. Such an entry was usually defective, he came to me, I had to repeal it and the monument again for a time was without any protection. So now we just want to improve the operation in such situations, so that the voivodship monument conservator informs about the initiation of the registration procedure in the register of monuments and has time to write a decision calmly. And please just pay attention to the end of this record. It provides that all repair and construction works shall be prohibited until that time. It must be read: it is forbidden to destroy monuments, to destroy monuments. That's how you read it. And there's also the wording that in a situation where it can lead to damage to the monument or deformation of its body... I don't have that recipe in front of my eyes. And believe me, what we're talking about here is the only way to protect some antique objects. Because then with those entries that I have to cancel because they're defective, there's a huge problem. And unfortunately, the marketers know the law, too. We're not the only ones who know them. And they took advantage of it. So we want to fight this pathology.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u220	Thank you very much. Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u221	Thank you very much. I am inspired by Senator Stanisławek's speech and speech, which I agree with and which asked very interesting questions. But I would like to focus on the wording that came out of this speech, namely the wording 'non-compliance'. Because I do not agree very much with the interpretation of the Minister, and I would like to ask: why the Ministry of State at the committee meeting Mr Lewandowski, and today you - Yeah. - Is it a terrible defense against using the word "failure"? This question is asked because, in the amendment of the minority, in point 2, to the wording in the Act, in which you have not changed a single sound, which sounds exactly as you have written in the Act, is about Article. 108 was added the word "failure." And that's because I don't understand the word "failure" a little bit differently than you do. You said today that the omission is consumed in the article. 38 by the wording of "supplies' and that this wording also includes omission. I'm really sorry, but I understand the wording of "nothing" completely different. For me, abandonment can involve sloppyness, bad organization, or lack of sense of responsibility. And taking action is of the essence of the order. It's forbidden. And that's why I've allowed myself to add to your record the word "failure," so that punishment may be subject to all who will, by failing to do so, act as... I'm talking about not paying attention, housing communities that can stop being vigilant, controlling where they're supervising. Is that how much it interferes here and spoils the bill? Between the article. Article 38a 108 is a long distance. You said you could find what it means in Art. 38. If your wording destroys or damages the monument... The point is to add the wording here by failing to act. And further: he is punishable by imprisonment, etc. Is it so gross and so complicated that you are so incredibly defending yourselves against the introduction of this phrase? Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Senator...]] Excuse me, I just want to say that I am withdrawing my vote from the debate. Please delete me. I already asked why it's so gross and irritating. And that answer is enough for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u222	Senator, I'm gonna say this out loud: it's because no legislator would accept it. There is a well-established legal tradition, and we cannot set certain deadlines. For me, for the humanist, it would be better, but believe me, the legislators wouldn't agree, and they would definitely question it. I will repeat once again that now an act prohibited by the article. 108. 1 Act on the protection of monuments can be committed both by action and by omission. That's the legal definition of a prohibited act. The possibility of non-compliance exists only for perpetrators who are subject to a specific legal obligation to prevent the effect. This is due to the general formula of the Article. 2nd Penal Code. It is worth noting here that, in the case of this prohibited act, the law does not specifically indicate who is the guarantor, which means that it is everyone who is the guarantor: everyone who will be in the position of the guarantor as a result of the existence of any basis for this obligation. Once again, I stress that the care of the monument is exercised by the owner or owner and consists in ensuring the conditions of maintenance, restoration, construction works at the monument, security, maintenance of the monument and its surroundings. Senator, once again, this is due to a certain tradition and a legal culture, not to my irritability. Any lawyer will read it the way I put it now. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: But the bill is not only read by lawyers. She's for people too.]] It's true. Therefore, the conservators of the voivodship must be trained in this field. But we cannot create a completely new tradition of lawmaking in Poland. I've been... for two years. My job is also to work with administrators. Believe me, Senator, this is a properly constructed amendment. We cannot create our rights, although perhaps for us, for the laymen, for the lawless, something sometimes seems contrary to some intuitive sense of the term.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u224	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I have one specific and one more general question. The first concerns the Nature Conservation Act. There's a record here that cancels the exemption from charging... It is the removal of trees or shrubs which are related to the renewal and care of trees growing on the property entered in the register of monuments. The question is, why is this here? That wasn't in the original project. Why should it be paid? Why must the care of the historic park be paid by the owner? The second question is more general. The Real Estate Management Act is updated in a very narrow range, and precisely in the area of cemeteries entered in the voivodship register of monuments. Don't you think that the Minister should be dealt with in a more categoric way about the possibility for the municipalities to recover historic properties that were acquired by private owners, and these owners simply do nothing with these properties? In addition to the bad news, it is sometimes difficult to determine their whereabouts. Suppose they went abroad. I know one case, three kilometers from where I live. The question is, shouldn't it be? in the Real Estate Management Act, in the event of the disposal of a monument owned by the State Treasury or by the municipality, impose an obligation to enter into a sale contract or a donation of a repurchase right which would be executed after a certain period of time. Of course, if no renovation works are carried out at the monument.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u225	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll answer the first question first. We've actually introduced... We abolish the need to apply twice in this green protection provision: once to the nature conservation authority; two to the voivodeship conservationist of monuments. It's supposed to be very simplistic... Green in the area entered in the register of monuments is to be controlled by the voivodship monument conservator. He's the only one who agrees. This is good, ladies and gentlemen. So far, we've had a situation where two independent permits had to be obtained. Then, if you're asking me, couldn't there be a rule here that would... Mr. Senator, for example. The municipality is selling some kind of antique resource... In the purchase-sale agreement you can save virtually everything. The problem is what I said was that there is such a low awareness of what heritage is, how it should be managed. It's changing slowly, and I think it's a little bit better than the 1990s where we lost that antique resource. This happens, so to speak, lower and this cannot be written in the bill, because there will be a thousand situations of life which will be these records of denial. I think that I can comfort us by saying that these are not just our Polish problems. I am calling for England here, but it has an excellent, best antiquity protection system. Their resource wasn't burned, destroyed. There, for example. The question of education of certain qualities in judges so that they judge in these matters... There's even a term: crimes against heritage. It took them about 10 years. We should really start our educational work intensively. Education makes sense. And then we won't have that kind of problem. The dominant mentality in small cities is that the old ones are best destroyed. You know that, don't you? And that's where I think the problem is. If you don't change people's mentality if you don't look for new features for monuments, if you still think it's better to tear down and build something new, then we can't deal with this problem. It is certainly not possible to introduce this provision at the stage of the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Care of Monuments. [[Bravo, Minister. Leave her alone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kobiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u227	Minister, I would like to return to the correction on the amount of the penalty. The Minister was gracious in an example showing that this punishment, after this change, would be too low, to mention such an event that the owner had leveled the monument to the ground. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Yes.]] I absolutely agree that in such a situation the penalty of 50,000 is abstract, does not conform to reality. However, I would like to point out that this situation describes another point in this law. I will allow myself to read it: whoever destroys or damages the monument is punishable by imprisonment from 6 months to 8 years. We do not call for a reduction in this penalty, we do not want a reduction in the penalty for destruction. We want a reduction in the financial penalty... It's about the 0.5 million that's written here. And here's a list of things that can be punished with a penalty of 0.5 million. If the Minister will allow it, I will replace it so that we know what we're talking about. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Yes.]] These are penalties for conducting archaeological studies without permission, conducting architectural studies without permission, conservation studies, carrying out works in the vicinity of the monument, of course without permission, and carrying out conservation work without permission. So this punishment doesn't apply to a situation where someone destroys the monument or, as the Minister put it forward, burns it or, as the Minister said, by means of bulldozers, it will be destroyed to the ground. There's a completely different kind of misdemeanor here. And we believe that the penalty of 0.5 million is absolutely inadequate for this offence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u228	May I? Senator, first of all, you shouldn't say that it's... it's... it's... I understand we have two penalties, one for doing the work without the conservator's permission... And by that it should be understood simply the destruction of the monument, the conscious destruction of the monument. This is also the strength of these administrative penalties: we can simply scare away. I'm gonna investigate Zakopane right now, and that's where the villa disappeared in a few hours and everything... I'm sorry, but let me get this straight: the impudence of developers is enormous, because they know that nothing can be done to them. So believe me, nothing will work to scare away like an administrative penalty. Because nobody, no normal man, no honest man would ever do that. I would also like to note one thing, which means that the penalties you were talking about, from PLN 500 to PLN 50,000, are administrative penalties not for doing work without permission or against the permission of the conservator. Because the destruction of the monument is just such a coincidence. Without the permission of the provincial monument conservator... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Whoa, whoa, whoa. And here's the supreme punishment. But these penalties from 500 PLN to 50,000 are penalties for Okay, look out! Do not follow the recommendations of the conservators. In accordance with the revised Code of Administrative Procedure, they are subject to a measure. So the conservator can waive punishment if someone is in financial difficulty or if the destruction is caused by third forces and can also impose a very low warning penalty. So they're just measuring. And this measuring is, I think, the advantage of these penalties, because we don't measure them out of the vending machine, we don't have rigid divisions, but we take into account the general context and the situation of the owner of the monument. [[If I may, Mr. Marshal... once again, I would like to say that the destruction of the monument is eight years in prison, not a financial penalty. And 0.5 million...]] Mr. Senator, in this situation, I'm really gonna send the last case to your address so you can see that, unfortunately, neither the courts nor the DA's office nor the police are working. So this recipe is dead. That's what the Antiquities Council said, and the conservators were talking about it. And I am constantly calling for example the Western countries, because there is a need to develop a certain sensitivity in judges who usually deal with robbery cases, car thefts, and do not have a sensitive sensitivity to the issue of monuments. And it's been built for years. So you have to start a campaign like this, you have to start some educational action, you have to spend some set of guidelines, just as it's done in the Western countries, and slowly this justice system will change. But right now, this recipe is practically dead.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u229	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u230	Thank you very much. And I'm sorry, because we're almost tired of the Minister, but the issue of arable land has been raised and I have a question for the Minister. Because we're planning to change the law on earth trading, and the fact is that if a historic object... you as conservators... Because it's called. conservation zone, conservation zone. So would the Ministry be involved in the work on this land law to exclude from the historical objects... that is to include this agricultural land that should belong to them? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: So-called. buffer...]] Yeah, so there's a buffer like that. Or part of it should be, and it can't be turnover, and it's about making it subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u231	Mr. Senator, I'm sure we can lean on these regulations. I'm sure they're very important, actually it's very... [[So we can work together on this?]] I'm sure the Ministry will cooperate in all matters... [[Thank you very much.]] ...which concern monuments and their surroundings. [[Thank you.]] It's our duty.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u232	Thank you very much. We have therefore exhausted the list of people willing to ask questions, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Florek was the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act aims to increase the general competence of the monument conservator, including. also in the field of personnel matters. It extends the scope of supervision, introduces penalties in the administrative system instead of offences. As for these two points regarding the changes that are provided for in the Act... As far as what the Minister has presented is concerned, it is, of course, possible to agree with these changes, to discuss certain issues, whether this is all good, fully refined. This can be accepted, but there is one thing I cannot agree with when it comes to what I said, and that is why I am about to propose amendments. In a nutshell. I'm not going to develop this scope of supervision, and so on, because it's getting late. That's why I'm gonna cut it short. I'm just gonna get back to those corrections. Well, I'm talking about voivodship location, like I said. Voivodship conservation of monuments is part of the combined administration of voivodship and the voivodship is the head of this joint administration. It is the voivodship that is entitled, among others. to appoint the heads of these departments. That's how it's been in all the services so far. Unintegrated administration with voivodship is an administration subordinate to the competent minister. That's why I said you had to think about it at first. There are two roads. Either you're a joint administration or you're a non-joint administration. If you are a team, you have to follow these rules, i.e. the voivode is here entitled to appoint a manager. It was the Minister who spoke and I spoke with substance with everything that the Minister said here, I agree. But with what the Minister said in the explanatory memorandum, I disagree. This is above all a bad example for other services, for other inspections. Because you'll see that another inspection or other services are about to go the same way, and they're also going to want to influence it. The head of the individual department will have an impact on who will be the chief inspector, I don't know, seeding. One at a time, we can exchange. And in this bill, we went even further. To the managers of the local branches. He's also a voivodship conservator. So I think it's going way too far. You don't have to be afraid unless you have doubts about the voivodeship function. But I would like to point out that the voivode is a representative of the government in the field, and therefore you have to have confidence in it. That is why these regulations, which so far applied to the establishment of voivodship antiquities conservators, were good. Of course, the provincial conservator agreed to do so, and therefore he had an influence on it. Therefore, the amendments I am proposing are up to 3 articles. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 13, point (a) is deleted. a and b. Before this was the case: the Provincial Monument Preserver appoints and dismisses the voivode, with the consent of the General Monument Preserver. And now it is. And that's what I'm suggesting we delete. The Provincial Monument Preserver shall appoint a voivode at the request of the General Monument Preserver indicating the candidate for this post. The Voyeur has nothing to say. It's not administratively complex. And further, the Provincial Monument Preserver dismisses the voivode at the request of the General Monument Preserver or with his consent. Now we have these two points, and there was one. This is the first amendment. Second amendment: Article 1 point 14 is deleted. I quote at paragraph 14: "Director of the Delegation of the Provincial Office for the Protection of Monuments..." which means let's see there; you spoke about Konin, about Kalisz; I give an example of where these delegations are. ...calls and revokes the provincial monument conservator at the request of the General Monument Preserver or with his consent. And third amendment: Article 3 is deleted. 4. There are transitional provisions. This is the consequence of the two previous amendments. Mr. Marshal, I am making amendments to the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments. I think that making a precedent is a bad thing, unless the goal is that we want everything under the central administration, which is to go back to a centralized system, because only then does it make sense. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Senator Zdrojewska.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u234	Now you have the voice of Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u235	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, We had a very special discussion today, in my opinion, completely unnecessary. There would not have been such a long discussion, in which a large part were attended by representatives of the cultural committee, had it not been for the Ministry's representative at the committee meeting to be Minister Lewandowski, who was not Well, let's put it mildly. That's why you've received so many questions today. It is much better to come personally to the committee meeting or to send some competent director who will explain all these issues. Then there's no problem. We sometimes know cases like this from different committees. It was actually that you... Without downgrading Minister Lewandowski, I would like to say that he is not a specialist in these matters at all. This is the first case. I draw attention to the fact that we wouldn't have to... You could explain that at the committee meeting, and there would be no part of the questions. Even today we had problems, asking many times, very specific questions. I've been asking, for example. It's about the procedure for all those samosas, and so far I don't really know... I've learned more from Senator Stanisławek's statement than from your answers because there's been some chaos. And the fact that nothing's changed didn't solve the problem because everyone wanted to know about the permit. And even Senator Czerwinski asked me that, too. You didn't answer. Why should somebody pay? [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, you didn't answer that, and I was interested. So few things I've found out. It's kind of a weird situation, 'cause 99%. Members of the Culture Committee And on the side of the PiS, and on our side, it was behind this project. We think he's very important and very necessary. Everything points out that maybe he's not sure at all. The situation is definitely improved. I do not agree with all the issues, but I will vote in favour of this law because I believe it is necessary. E.g. I don't agree with that... I think to unplug, colloquially speaking... I mean, I don't think you should have left this voivode behind as a means of recalling or anything. Your argument that the voivode has knowledge... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Wojewóda has supervision.]] Ma'am, it's true, yes, the voivode has control of the local government, but she doesn't have much knowledge. And very often the voivode is in conflict with the local authorities. In fact, the most important knowledge is from conservators, and whether or not it's on a given area... They own it, too. I don't know. Marshals of the voivodship, cultural committees, voivodship sejmikas, etc., who deal with such issues, also city councils in large cities. That's what I'm paying attention to. There is also such a great awareness about whether the conservator is good or not. 'Cause, of course, there's often something like this that a local president supports a conservator that he's very good at working with, and this conservator. I'm paying attention to this. It doesn't have to be good. But he doesn't need a voivode for that. Some other way of consulting or gathering such knowledge would suffice. And since the conservators are... You have complaints about conservators, so more or less you know which one's good, which one's not good, because the complaints actually go to the main conservator. You said that... I think the basic problem... Why can we not achieve the effect that we want to achieve after this law has been introduced? That is because, indeed, the fundamental problem is in the judicial and police responses. This is a very important issue. Once again we are talking about resorting Poland, which means that the decision is made and somewhere in some resort, everything is right, and as a result no one reacts. And even though it's so outrageous for all of us sitting here And this has been repeatedly emphasised in the discussion, e.g. intentional destruction of monuments, etc. by the developers, which is extremely serious, this punishment in my opinion will not help unless the courts and the police are involved if we do not... I think that is a good question; when the President of the Court is here, she can also be asked. 'Cause it's really dead cases either at the police level or at the D.A.'s office or in the courts... And that's why there's gonna be local government training here. It's very good of you to tell me. But there's gonna be some court-martial training, right? Well, that's good, because that's what this is all about. But I want to say something like that. You're talking about the fact that your legal advisors or lawyers told you that someone's saying, and there's a law professor here... Except, Minister, sometimes here in this room, we have professors of law who have completely different opinions. I assure you, I do. So please don't plead that no legislator would let you, because we've seen such laws here... It seemed to me, too, that no legislator or any prominent lawyer in my life would have allowed it or voted for it, and they would have passed. Let me tell you something else. We've had situations like this, that some of the prominent legislators at the ministry were designing a project, bringing it here, and then a month later. At this meeting, we already have such a law, they came back with the bill because they prepared it wrongly. Then the legislators have to change their minds, and in case... I'm talking mostly about parliamentary projects that go some other way. And that's such a request... There was another request. A few people were talking about these parks. Contrary to appearances, that's a problem. We were worried about it, and we discussed it a lot when the land sales bill was in place. You say that... of course the ministry will always defend, but... I say to you that if the ministers demand that these are government projects, that there be inter-ministerial arrangements and that such projects enter, we will not have some scandalous laws that go through. The Minister, even if you know that this is a parliamentary project concerning the environmental law or the sale of land, but there is something about culture that the Ministry should be interested in. And that's what I recommend. That's what we're talking about here, and that's where we'll all agree. And that's at every stage. Thank you. I'll vote in favour. Unfortunately, I regret to say that I do not agree with this amendment, I think... I mean, I agree with Senator Flork, who said it was either to unplug... I think the voivodship hasn't proven itself yet, that it didn't work out as a team administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u236	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's another law that's repressive. And even though this repression is necessary... I agree that there must be adequate punishments that will bring people to order in such important matters concerning our cultural heritage. But there's one thing I'm missing. Just like in our debate a few months ago. Sorry about the whole other thing. When we decided to punish non-paying alimony people, I lacked, as if the other side, that is to say, that this problem should also be balanced from the side of fathers who are separated... deprived of access to children, so here, in your bill, in this amendment, I lack the opportunity to support people who want to rebuild monuments. We had a senator here. He was once in Law and Justice, and later he was in the Civic Platform, who, for 12 years, fought with people, with monument conservationists who were throwing logs at his feet when he wanted to lead and eventually led to the rebuilding of one of the Orlich Nests in Bobolicy. I'm talking about Senator Lasecki, who put his own estate in order to replace the state where this country failed, and who failed right where it was possible to restore a great state... And it turns out that after a few years, since he rebuilt it, people from all over Poland come to see this monument. And here again in the next bill is punishment, but I don't see any incentive for this to change. I know, maybe there's no money... I wish it would work so that people who really want to And I will, of course, expect it. And they put their money in the restitution of our entire legacy, they weren't confronted with antiquity conservationists who say it's ruined. so-called. permanently preserved and that nothing can really be done in this direction. Once again, I'm not criticizing this bill. I would very much like, as on the one hand, we are strengthening the punishing arm of justice concerning the destruction of the monument, so that on the other hand we can help people who, on their own initiative, bring back our cultural goods to life, so that they really also receive State aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u238	Thank you, Senator. Senator Stanisławek has your voice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! I am very pleased that, at least in the case of this Act on Monuments, we are all in agreement and speak with one voice. I think it was a very good appeal to increase funds to help people who have monuments. We here in this House have voted for various laws. One push of the button, mining got 800 million. Well, mining is definitely very important and 800 million, but it turns out 800 million isn't enough and we're gonna add more. And if we do now have only 120 million to help protect the monuments I repeat: 120 million, I must say that we are compromising ourselves, we are totally compromising ourselves in our own eyes. Because it's our legacy, but if you need money, they're gone. So that I appeal to myself, to your marshal, to the High House, but to think about the support of the Minister, because this money should be much bigger. People who love monuments sacrifice their livelihoods, and the state can fund them 20%... they get the best, unfortunately very rarely individual. With these grants, the division into state monuments, church monuments and private monuments is returned. The private is at the end... And as we said, every monument should be treated equally. I am very pleased that, at the moment, the Minister will be pointing out a candidate for a regional conservator. I find it absolutely right. We did it in Lublin. If it weren't for some coincidences, we'd have a very weak maintenance officer, which would be a big problem. I want penalties. The monument once destroyed and then rebuilt is no longer a monument. It's no longer a monument. Monument destroyed... Our cultural heritage has been destroyed. What is then is no longer a monument It's something that looks like a monument, but there's no antique. So that I am behind these big penalties and I am very happy about this solution. I am also pleased with the Minister's declaration that if we amend the agricultural system law, the land law, together we will be... The point is that in the context of monuments this agricultural land should be considered differently. If there is a palace-park team and this team consists of 2, 5 or 10 ha, what does it matter... It's all a monument, agricultural land, ponds, park. Besides, depending on who's counting... As an anecdote, I can say that a park in the sense of agriculture is an arable land. Depends on who and what he's talking about. We are talking about the park, and in the municipality it is considered as agricultural land or wasteland, depending on how it was qualified. So I'm very happy... We support the Minister and this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u240	Thank you, Senator. Senator Fedorovich, you have a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm the chairman of this committee and I'm the one who decided That's my constitutional right. I believe that it is the Minister who should represent Poland at the UNESCO meeting. At her request, I justified my absence. Thank you for this UNESCO in Poland, because this is a glory for Poland. That's the first thing. It is good that the discussion is harsh, long and that the former voivodeships are talking, that people who theoretically have less in common with the monuments than the people in our committee, for whom the monument is a value higher than the building itself or false space. The Minister knows very well that these comments from our senator, former voivode, Mr Flork, concerning this fusion, etc., have been recorded. What will happen later and what will happen after the introduction of this law will depend only on certain principles of fairness and the rules that citizens should use in public service. If because we're talking about this bill, there's any abuse... That's what this protocol is for, so we can fix it. In a word, I thank you for what happened, for this bill. Minister, the huge success of Poland and Krakow at the UNESCO session. I'm just reminding you that there are some decisions that we're going to try to make. But that's what we're gonna talk about in a different mode. Mr. Marshal, thank you for your comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u242	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. No one's checking in anymore. I would like to inform you that proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled by Senator Flork. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Literally two sentences.]] There you go. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u243	I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators for all their comments. I would like to stress once again that yesterday I had to be present at the end of the UNESCO session and it was my duty, I am the proxy of the Minister for the organisation of the 40th first UNESCO session. If it wasn't for that, I'd definitely be alone, personally, yesterday. I believe that this is a good amendment, that it will serve the next terms of office of Members and Senators and all Poles. And I think it would be good if she came into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u244	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 549 and the committee report In print No 549 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 7 July 2017 amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and the principles of dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and certain other laws. The committee meeting took place on 12 July. It discusses this law, the main objective of which is to strengthen the security of supply of natural gas to customers, to facilitate the maintenance of mandatory stocks of natural gas and to resolve the interpretation doubts raised by market participants as to the legal situation in force. This law amends the oil stock law and the Energy Law. One of the most important changes covered by this amendment is the addition to the Act on Oil and Natural Gas Stocks to the definition of the natural gas importing entity. Further elements, which are very important, are the resolution of doubts as to how to maintain mandatory stocks of natural gas and the determination of the obligations of the storage system operator and the gas transmission system operator to ensure that mandatory stocks of natural gas are maintained at a certain level. The Act also deals with requiring the transmission system operator to notify the President of the Energy Regulatory Office of the fact that capacity utilisation reserved for the supply of total quantities of mandatory natural gas stocks held outside the territory of the Republic of Poland to the national transmission or distribution network for other purposes. The Act also includes regulations which impose on an energy undertaking carrying out an economic activity in the field of gas trading abroad and an operator importing natural gas to provide the transmission system operator with information on the place of storage of mandatory gas stocks in order to verify the technical feasibility of supplying these stocks to the gas system. It also clarifies the rules and procedures applicable to the mobilisation of mandatory stocks of natural gas in order to balance this system. This law was adopted at a committee meeting. There was also a voice in the discussion on the risks or risks of an increase in the gas price for the final consumer. These doubts were resolved at the meeting, these matters were clarified. Finally, I would like to say that the committee recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u246	Thank you, Senator. Stay here for a while, because there may be questions. However, before we move on to them, let me remind you that it is possible to vote after this point, as has already been announced. Now the senators can report a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place that lasts no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. The government is represented today by Mr Piotr Naimski, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, government representative for strategic energy infrastructure. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of giving you the authority of the Minister of Energy to appear here in front of you. The revision we're considering today is a bill ordering what we introduced last year. Last year we introduced an obligation to store gas in sufficient quantities for all importers. This law came into force in September last year, and in this amendment, as Senator Gazweda put it, we are tidying up what has happened to us, we can say, during the application of the law already in force. I'm going to add one thing to what Senator Gazweda said, because this is important in this revision. Namely, this amendment obliges importers who want to use one of three ways of fulfilling the warehouse obligation, i.e. to store gas abroad in Poland, to maintain, buy and maintain capacity, i.e. to transfer the interconnector to Poland, the interconnector connecting to the Polish transmission network, those quantities of gas that are stored abroad. This rigid capacity, the off capacity gives us the guarantee that in the event of a crisis gas from outside Poland will be able to be imported at the rate and quantity we need. During the legislative work in the Sejm, the comments of the Energy Regulatory Office were taken into account, which practically focused on the obligations to inform the Energy Regulatory Office about the implementation of the storage obligation by gas importers. At the request of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, sanctions have also been imposed for failing to comply with these obligations. Actually, that's what I wanted to say. Maybe one more word of explanation. Perhaps some of you are surprised that there is such a rush to make this amendment through the legislative process. It's just so-called. the gas year, i.e. the period when all arrangements, contracts, contracts and concessions are valid In one word: it's all about the gas market It starts in October each year. The gas year lasts from October to October. What will not be decided is signed by gas market participants before... well, in September. This is the deadline. All this will be possible only next year, because during the gas year the changes are impossible. That is why we are asking the House, your marshal, to vote on this today, because the deadlines which are pending in the law and can be used by the entities covered by this regulation are due to expire at the beginning of August. That's why I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u248	Thank you, Minister. Don't leave the bleacher yet, or there might be questions. Before the senators begin to ask questions, please listen to the next communication, or actually a reminder. As announced earlier after considering this point, we will begin to hear the first President of the Supreme Court about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2016. Senators can now submit no more than a minute of query to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u249	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I have the impression that the records we are talking about today are not very different from the previous ones and that, in principle, it would be possible to operate on the basis of the previous law. But, of course, it's a good thing we're correcting it. We know that this law has been extended to the original version due to the comments of the URE. I have a question about warehouses outside the Republic of Poland. We currently have warehouses outside our country. Will the number of these warehouses increase? Minister, you were talking about subjects. I understand that these are non-owned entities of the State Treasury, entities that are, so to speak, outside the structure of the State Treasury, not controlled by the State Treasury. Did I make myself right or did I make things better, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u250	Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u251	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, we have a free market, and it's like anyone who has the opportunity and thinks it's a good deal can import gas. He can buy gas outside Poland and look for customers in Poland. And if he wants to bring in the gas, he'll be covered by a storage obligation. The state of affairs is at the moment that only one gas importer has reported compliance with the obligation to store outside Poland. There is a very small amount of raw material, a dozen million cubic meters of gas. We, in a sense, act in advance, not ex post, by making this amendment. This is also the answer for those of you who would be worried about some entities falling out of the market, for example. They feel that it doesn't pay off or that it's too embarrassing. There's no one out. There haven't been any such cases so far. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u252	You're asking Senator Włosowicz a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I think the Minister has already answered my question. I'd just like to know what the proportions might be. How does the Minister estimate this? between stocks held in the country and those held abroad. But since the Minister said it could be a dozen million cubic meters, I understand it's inexcusable, but... [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Against billions of...]] ...in view of the billions it is the difference of the individual simply. Yeah, well, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u254	The question is Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in connection with this law, there were reservations so called. small importers. Tell me, because somehow I didn't find out even during the meeting of our committee, how much supplies must be collected by the importer. And are these supplies for sales or imports? What does it mean to store...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u256	With regard to marketing... That's the percentage. is the quantity that depends on the amount of gas introduced... [[Voice from the room: Yes, but this...]] Please? Excuse me, but you... Excuse me, but the principal, so to speak, is decorating... [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is a percentage of the amount of gas placed on the market. This is 30%... for 30 days we have stocks in general that have to be stored, it's 30 days, so to speak, to participate in the market. This depends, of course, on the amount of volume that is imported. It's all made up of... Because it's like this too. Maybe it's worth saying. That these small companies, which, as the senator says, are worried about this, claim that they want equal rights in relation to still the largest importer of gas to Poland, i.e. PGNiG... There is still a PGNiG position on the market or PGNiG market position in the background of the discussion about this law. Well, of course, it is overwhelming, because PGNiG executes, for example, this Yamal contract, at 10 billion m3 per year. So far it has been so, or actually until last year, that in fact the storage obligation, resulting from the need to secure in the event of a crisis of gas supply to customers in Poland, i.e. this implementation of the principles of energy security, was actually financed exclusively by PGNiG. We have introduced this last year's amendment, which has become an obligation for all of us, including these small importers, and today we are simply actually further aligning these opportunities. They were preferred, now they will not be preferred, they will have equal rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u257	Senator Stanisławek has another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, during the legislative work, it turned out that, I don't know, there's been some oversight so far... What was the problem now that at the request of the president of the URE... So that's how it looked like the CEO of ure couldn't get the data on the companies that import the gas. Because at the moment we are proceeding with the solution that, at the request of the President of the URE, customs authorities are required to provide identification data on gas importing entities. So it looks like the gas has been coming up so far, but the control wasn't full.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u259	These records, which we have introduced here at the request of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, are indeed precision records. Because it was a duty, but it wasn't simply said. Now it's straight up. Well, there's one more problem that I'm gonna raise while I'm at it. Namely, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office has the possibility to check in the territory of the Republic of Poland, who, where, how much of this gas is stored and under what conditions, in short, what the storage contract or ticket contract looks like. As far as warehouse abroad is concerned, the possibilities are limited, i.e. the President of the Energy Regulatory Office will be able to control the performance of the warehouse obligation, actually based on documents submitted by the importer, i.e. the storage agreement or the agreement to buy rigid capacity in the interconnector. And this will be examined by the Energy Regulatory Office. This is a certain imbalance and we see it, but there is no possibility that warehouses abroad will be subject to the same control as in the country at the moment. And this is also an argument, because one must realize that it is safer in Poland than abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u260	Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have another question because I don't know if we have it settled in this bill. If the company is being liquidated and the warehouse is abroad, the gas warehouse is abroad, who is it selling to? Gas is abroad, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u262	No. I mean, storage gas is the property of the company. The obligation to maintain this mandatory part in the case of imports shall be valid throughout the gas year. In other words, it can be imagined that if the importer resigns from its activities Let's just say it like that. In April, it will have to hold this warehouse by October... [[You're keeping it...]] Then, of course, he can sell the gas, the gas is his property.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u263	That's all. The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u264	Minister, you said that this bill somehow restores the equivalence of the obligations of the operators, but the problem is that only PGNiG, as far as I know, has a warehouse base. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Yes.]] It's happened once in history. And it was also a bill created by the Minister. That the entities on the Polish market had no place to store it. Where are those entities that don't have the base PGNiG has to store this 1/3... isn't that an easy way to eliminate them from the market? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u265	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u266	Mr. Senator, first of all, there is a company in Poland that operates warehouse systems. It is compatible with EU regulations, so it is decorated. This is PGNiG's daughter's company. Nevertheless, she is obliged to offer her storage capacity on the market and the tariff, i.e. the storage fee, is approved by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. And in this sense it is an absolutely market entity. I can say that the warehouse system operator is also obliged to carry out the so-called. open season procedure for storage, i.e. simply offer storage capacity. And it turns out that these capacities offered by the warehouse system operator are not used.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u267	So, as I understand it, there is no concern that PGNiG's daughter company with these entities, when the mother company is interested in eliminating other entities, because this is a normal economic activity... So she's not gonna affect this entity, her daughter's company, so she won't let the competition store...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u268	That's out of the question. This is the operator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u269	The senator's done. You have the voice of a senator, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u270	Minister, the costs of storage of gas or oil are borne by manufacturing companies or those that trade in gas or oil. Does this law provide an opportunity to increase the costs for these companies and thus increase the costs of those who purchase gas or fuel, oil? Because if there's an increase in costs for companies, they're obviously going to transfer those costs to the customer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u271	Please, Minister. [[The Minister must be in trouble...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u272	Mr. Marshal, we're talking gas here, not oil. I can say this: they are conducted in a continuous way comparing gas prices on the stock exchange, on the Freight Energy Exchange in Poland and on the German Gaspool, because this is the best way to compare it. And it turns out that the introduction last year of the obligation to store stocks for all importers, which entered into force in September 2016, did not change the difference between gas prices on the Polish and German exchanges. I spoke at the committee meeting about the fact that there is already one case of approval by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office tariff for one of the small importers Not for PGNiG from the tariff applicable for 2018. This is an importer, and the fare is 10%. lower than last year. Therefore, this may indicate... This is not proof, it is a coincidence, the first such case, but it may indicate that some concerns about the fact that the prices of imported gas may rise in Poland are to rise.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u273	Mr. Marshal, do you have another question? [[No.]] The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u274	I would like to ask you: do these storage obligations also apply to gas that will be imported into Świnoujście in a liquefied form and then defrosted, so to speak, and put on the net? And if, by summing it all up, Because we also hear government officials saying that liquefied gas is relatively more expensive... But isn't all this going to be a price increase? How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u275	Mr. Senator, most of all, every importer for every quantity of imported gas. It doesn't matter whether it's gas from the pipeline or whether it's LNG gas, it's a storage obligation. Therefore, PGNiG, because at the moment PGNiG brings gas through a gas-port in Świnoujście, must keep enough gas in storage, mandatory. And that's obvious. As regards the prices of LNG imported to Świnoujście There is indeed an opportunity to say this, and I will say it. I can tell by not going too far into detail that PGNiG is currently executing 2 contracts... That is, one is already implemented in practice, almost 20 vessels have arrived from Qatar and the other will start to be implemented in January 2018, but the contract is already signed. These are two long-term contracts. It can be said that when these two contracts are submitted together, the gas from Qatar is cost-effective for PGNiG and for customers in Poland. As for the spot deliveries that reached Świnoujście, among others. about this ship that came from the eastern coast of the United States, giving a tangible vision that gas from the United States could be imported into Poland and Europe, it was profitable. This is just a profitable transaction, it was worth PGNiG. It was a spot deal, which was a one-time buy from the market. It was worth PGNiG and it was worth it to Cheniere, who sold it. This shows that there is quite a lot of space between what may or may not want to pay PGNiG, and how much the American company, after all, still profitable, will sell this gas. Where's this coming from? This is mainly due to the fact that the cost of production of gas in the United States from shale deposits is very low That's about $1 per MBTU right now. Those of you who are aware of this know that this is really not much. Therefore, the margin margin for US producers is large enough that if they really want to enter the European market, really deliver, say, in medium-term, more durable contracts gas to Poland... They have space to negotiate, but so do we. And that's the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u276	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u277	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, added an article. 24a paragraph. 3: The energy company can only use capacity for storage outside the country. In turn, according to the mouth. 4 the transmission system operator must report within 7 days that these capacity is used for other purposes. You used the concept of rigid capacity. How rigid is this capacity when it comes to storage of mandatory stocks outside the country? Because if she's a contractual one, and the whole system is built in case the contracts stop functioning on a crisis situation, isn't storage outside the borders just an illusion? We will console ourselves that we have supplies there, but when there is a crisis and agreements will cease to function, then it is better who first, who has real access to the transmission, rather than the contracts themselves. And the question is: what forces us to take into account the possibility of storage outside the country, not just in a country where we have full power over everything?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u278	The senator asked a multi-level question. I'll try to answer these particular threads, and I'll start from the end. Duty... Here's what I'm gonna say. The ability to store outside the borders comes from EU regulations and we need to adapt to that. Today's form of this law is also the result of consultation with the European Commission. We're in contact with the Commission. That's one thing. Second thing. Of course, we can imagine a disaster where no contracts will be in force. We are responsible for the country's energy security and therefore we must also imagine such an extreme situation. This crisis is gradual. Right? We or the neighbouring countries have experienced these things before. In 2009, either in 2006 the supply of gas from the East, generally from the East, was interrupted or very limited to customers in central and western Europe. The crisis procedures that we are trying at European Union level in the form of the SoS Directive to clarify in the right direction, which has recently been achieved, and also those trade agreements, can be said, at the commercial level that are being secured, to prepare us for the crisis that we are able to order, simply to order. And that's why there's this rigid capacity that we want guaranteed by the importer over what he's secured, speaking in jargon, he's booked, including the interconnector for his normal, commercial activities. Besides, there are disputes about why this is necessary, because it would be possible to use what is commercially used in normal times. Well, we don't think we need to shut down this crisis capacity for a time of crisis. Why? Well, I'll say, among other things. Once again, answering the senator's part of the question that because he will remain exclusively at the level of commercial capacity agreements would lead to a race, which is better. And that's what we want to avoid. And this shut-off rigid bandwidth is an element, so to speak, a security device from this side. Plus, there's this... Because I mentioned this SoS directive on security, that is, responding to a supply crisis to one of the Member States. There it is quite detailed all described that the point, which was long negotiated, among others. Mr Pikus, sitting here, was concerned with what would be a priority on the side of our western border in the event of a crisis: was the embodiment of a large warehouse on the German side right at the Polish border, or the reverse supply by the Jamaican pipeline to Poland? And we got that in the event of a major crisis it would be deliveries to Poland. And again, Mr Senator, this is an agreement, this is a directive... I'm sorry, a regulation of the European Union. That won't solve our problem in case I'm not gonna use a word I don't wanna use here. The really huge confusion, the crisis, when contracts may cease to be implemented. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u279	Thank you, Minister. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u280	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask you a question, and I would ask for an answer, even though it is loosely related to the legislation we are discussing, but it concerns this subject. Namely, are there concrete plans to expand the terminal to liquefied gas in Świnoujście? He's got a capacity of 5 billion m3 at the moment. Originally I heard that the third tank is possible and an extension of the terminal to a capacity of 7.5 billion m3 or even somewhere I read that up to 10 billion m3. Are there specific plans in this regard? And the second part of the question. Recently, there has been a major crisis in the import of gas by the Jamaican pipeline, caused by the quality of this gas. Is this currently a regulated situation? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: First... Let's start...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u281	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Mr. Marshal...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u282	Let's start with Piglet. The Świnoujście gasport now has a capacity of 5 billion m3 per year. The decision was taken by Gaz-System and its subsidiary, the daughter of PLNG, which manages the gasport, to increase capacity to 7.5 billion m3 but not by the construction of the third tank, but by increasing the regasification capacity. To put it graphically, this gas, which is very cold, liquefied, needs to be heated. It needs to be heated so that he can go to gas. That's what you need heaters for. Well, that's a possibility, because that's how it was designed in the gasport to add enough of these heating elements to bring back 7.5 billion m3. The construction of the third tank is the place for it. This is a matter of decision in the future. If we decide that we are building a third tank, which is possible, then this capacity will immediately increase to 10 billion m3 of gas per year. So here we have the ability to react flexibly. Two... two... [[Stopping supplies.]] Yeah, yeah, the latest Eastern supply crisis. It was water, it was... It turned out that the gas, which began to come by the jamal pipeline, contained a mixture of water, it started to sniff out, that is, steam in the gas pipeline began to snip out. The source of this, as it turned out, was somewhere far away, in Russia, not even in Belarus. It lasted countable, you could say, the number of hours. Gaz-System reacted in such a way that it stopped serving gas to Polish customers from the Jamal pipeline and replaced it with gas from the warehouse. Why? Because the addition of water is very harmful to all kinds of equipment, pumps, etc. The Germans, who receive the lion's share, or 29 billion m3 from this jamal pipeline, began to dehydrate this gas. Because they have a plumbing system to drain it. Yeah, but during the crash, it turns out they're not able to drain all the gas they want to pick up. In a word, this is a difficult situation. She was hard. But as in the course of this incident, we now believe that this is a technical issue. But this is a signal to us that the technical issues... Because we're usually thinking about some political aspects of interrupting supplies from the East, which, of course, is possible and happened. But there could also be technical problems. And we should be prepared for that. By the way, I can say that from the Jamal pipeline we only receive less than 3 billion m3 of gas from the Jamal contract in Poland. So the jamal pipeline is not equivalent to the jamal contract.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u283	Senator Comfort. [[Okay, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u284	Minister, you answered Senator Wach's question a second ago about deliveries to Świnoujście, among others. gas from the United States, which is shale gas. I would like to ask in this respect whether there are any plans to continue the exploration of shale gas deposits, whether we have completely forgotten about it and will only buy from the Americans.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u285	We do not forget shale gas in Poland, but in the last few years it has turned out that the economic situation, which could cause these initial investments in Poland to be regarded by companies as an acceptable investment risk... It turned out that this is not the case at the moment, mainly because the price of oil in the world, in general hydrocarbons, has fallen dramatically. However, because the prices of hydrocarbons are indexed, they are relative to the prices of crude oil. And large companies, global companies, mostly Americans, have come to believe that they limit investments beyond borders, reduce risky investments. At the same time, the production of gas and oil from shale deposits in the United States was much easier, much more favourable, lucrative than it originally seemed. Because there these shale deposits are at a depth to compare it, about 1,000 m and in Poland 3 000 m. This requires additional work in Poland, adaptation of technology. Originally to those companies that came in 2009, 2010, it seemed that if they moved everything they already tested in the United States, it would be the same in Poland. And it turns out it's not the same. We've got shales, lots of it, and we've got gas in those slates. And that's for sure. And the future will show if and how the profitable extraction will be. [[So let's vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u286	Senator Dobrzyński, you're welcome. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Pociej has already asked a question that I was interested in answering, so that...]] I have a question for the Minister. Minister, there were plans for a liquefied gas terminal in Gdansk. Is that up to date? Are there any work on this issue or not? The second question concerns reservoirs in Ukraine. Large capacity tanks are in Ukraine. Does PGNiG store gas also in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u287	Mr. Marshal, in terms of projects, initial plans or studies concerning possible construction, or actually placing a floating terminal for the collection of LNG in Gdańsk, is Gaz-System, to which it belongs, is not included in the investment plans. Nevertheless, we try to be prepared for different circumstances. Gaz-System therefore ordered a feasibility study for such an entity. And at this level we remain... [[But is it LNG or compressed gas?]] No, no, LNG. We're talking about... [[LNG?]] No, no, compressed is different. We're talking LNG, we're talking liquefied methane, not CNG. As far as Ukraine is concerned, PGNiG does not store gas in Ukrainian warehouses. But the fact is that Gaz-System is in agreement with partners in Ukraine. It is about the extension of the interconnector, which connects the Polish system with the Ukrainian system. Such an interconnector exists at the moment in Hermanowice, only has a capacity of 1.5 billion m3 per year. It's used to sell a certain amount of gas to Ukraine. PGNiG sells a certain amount of gas to Ukraine. The Gas-System wants to expand this interconnector to, let's say, 6,8 billion m3, which would already be important. This is a designed investment, discussed with the Ukrainians in the context of the use of the terminal in Świnoujście. It's to be done. It would be good if, on the Ukrainian side, the gas sector finally organised itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u288	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, sir. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Thank you very much.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm opening a discussion. Although one senator signed up for the discussion, he's not here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The point is, I'm already a walking corpse.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: More like sitting.]] [[Komarnicki.]] So... [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] I therefore close the discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, take 10 minutes.]] And I declare... [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes!]] [[Voices from the room: No, no, no!]] [[Voice from the room: Everyone's here.]] All right, all right, gentlemen. ...Break-in until 8:23 p.m. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And then the vote. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 13 to 20 minutes 23]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We are returning to the second agenda: the Law amending the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. 71 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 18 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and on the principles of dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and certain other laws. It's time for a technical break. [[Is the vote approved yet?]] Acknowledged. I read the formula against the results of the vote, etc. [[Voice from the room: The president is here.]] We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2016. The text of the information is contained in print No 503. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information and informed the Senate Marshal at its meeting on 27 June 2017. I would like to welcome to the Senate the first Supreme Court President, Mrs Margaret Gersdorf. [[Applause]] I ask the President to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen Senators of the Republic of Poland! I have the honour to present to you this particular year, the year of the 100th anniversary of the Polish justice system and the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court. I would like to present you with a brief report on the activities of the Supreme Court, which is the judicial authority appointed for the exercise of justice, but in a very special way, because by ensuring the legality and uniformity of the case law of universal and military courts. Such judicial supervision is mainly carried out through the recognition of cassation and other remedies, as well as the adoption of resolutions determining legal issues. It is also a function of the Supreme Court to recognise electoral protests, to determine the validity of elections to the Sejm and Senate and to the European Parliament, as well as the election of the President of the Republic of Poland. The Supreme Court also rules on the validity of the national referendum and the constitutional referendum. In addition, it views draft laws and other normative acts on the basis of which the courts rule and function, as well as drafts of other laws in so far as it considers it appropriate and necessary. Each of these areas of activity of the Supreme Court constitutes a separate perspective for assessing the activities of the Supreme Court. The primary task of the Supreme Court is to perform the judicial function. In this context, there was less impact in 2016 than in the previous reporting year. A total of 11 000 102 cases were received and 11 000 cases in 2015 214, which is 100 less cases. Cassation complaints, cassation A total of about 8 thousand. The highest number of cassation complaints, as many as 3,000 492, were filed with the Civil Chamber; this is the The largest chamber of the Supreme Court. Two thousand 567 cases were brought to the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, one thousand 821, to the Military Chamber only 6 and in 2015 12. This will still be the subject of my speech. A total of 1 thousand 146 complaints were also received. 164 legal issues are presented for resolution. The other cases consisted of appeals against military court decisions, actions for annulment of a final decision, competition and consumer cases, actions for the length of proceedings, actions for reopening, requests for referrals to another court, cases for pardons, case-laws and disciplinary actions. In the latter group of cases, the Supreme Court decided on the disciplinary responsibility of the judges on 62 cases, and in the case of the other professional groups on 90 cases. As I know that you are very interested in these disciplinary matters, I would also like to point out that 62 disciplinary matters have been dealt with. Fifteen judges were punished, three of whom were made public. I have accurate information in this regard. If the senators want this information, I'm prepared for it. Usually the question is: why were these judges made public? In general, these are: a statement of falseness, an invitation to the protocol to include in the record a case which is not in accordance with the proceedings of the protocol, the use in public places of words, gestures commonly considered abusive, lack of justification, and driving a car in an intoxicated state. These are the most serious charges brought against judges in disciplinary proceedings. Compared to the previous year, the difference between the number of cases brought and those identified is more favourable. In 2015, 712 cases were considered less than received and 325 cases more than received in 2016 but fewer cases were affected, so this real difference is not so big. The waiting time for a substantive settlement in the Supreme Court is on average 7 months. This fully corresponds to the standards set out in the Constitution and in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. But it's not that pink. In each of the chambers, it's different. The worst is in the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, because there are often cases that are constantly replicating, but are a very big social problem; there is 12 months. At this point, I know that this year has been accelerated. In the Civil Chamber for nine months, in the Criminal Chamber for six months, and in the Military Chamber for one and two months. This military one improves all the statistics. In 2016 I am returning to the Military Chamber cases. The smaller impact of the cases to this Chamber has been noted. This trend can be countered by taking steps to restore the jurisdiction of military courts regulated for a transitional period in Article. 12 of the Act - Introductory provisions k.p.k. This can be done without additional costs, as the structures of the judicial and prosecution authorities in military matters have been preserved and still functioned, only for a very limited number of cases at the moment. As for the work of the Supreme Court, it is not that the judges of the Military Chamber are very small and are unemployed when they rule in the Criminal Chamber. On the other hand, the judges of the Criminal Chamber often have to rule in the Military Chamber, because there are no judges to deal with the case once again, because the same judges cannot rule then. The organisation of work is based on the Regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland on determining the number of judges. These posts have been established 93. The cast as at 31 December 2016 was 83 and this is because there is a natural rotation of judges and there is always a passage of time before recruitment, so that there are never as many judges as the posts were established, namely 93 and almost never at the end of the year, as the judges then retire. In 2016, we used the help of the Delegated Judges, but there were few of them, not always the Minister of Justice agreed to such delegations. One of the most important aspects of the organizational activity was the dissemination of information on the case law of the Supreme Court. The actions taken were mainly reflected in the issuing of official collections of judgments, the making available of case law by a paper on access to public information and the issuing of the Supreme Court Bulletin and the newsletters of each Chamber, and the Supreme Court Studies and Analysis were also issued. Scientific materials, studies and analysis of the Supreme Court. Review of case law, as well as, as every year, the Supreme Court's Court of Justice's Court of Disciplinary Court; this is a compendium of knowledge of the case law line in disciplinary matters. In 2016, as every year, there were away scientific conferences of Supreme Court judges. We had such a conference in 2015 and for the second time in 2016. These are joint deliberations of the chambers and joint deliberations of the entire Supreme Court. This year, these joint deliberations were devoted to the application of the Constitution and to judicial capacity and reprivatisation problems. Moreover, for many years, the Supreme Court has been watching these reprivatization problems, there have been conferences, there have been books published from these conferences, but unfortunately they have not found any interest in journalists or Members. The Supreme Court is also involved in international cooperation and there are numerous conferences and research projects in which it participates. A conference on the limits of judicial transparency was organised in the Slovak Republic, and there was a project by the European Institute of Law, a seminar attended by Supreme Court judges. The first president participated in the colloquium of the presidents' network held in Madrid. In addition, a delegation from the Supreme Court of the Slovak Republic came to Poland at the invitation of the first President. The talks took place in the Supreme Court, the National Court and the Constitutional Court. In addition to judicial work, judges often engage in scientific, teaching and public activities, taking part in numerous conferences. The Press Team shall respond to requests for access to the case file, audio recording, image recording, etc. 2016 did not deviate from previous public information. We had cases of false information in the media and the Supreme Court spokesperson appeared with numerous corrections in this regard. With regard to what is most important, i.e. for the judicial activities of individual chambers, it was varied. This was due to the establishment of new legislation and was the result of often changing social, economic and political conditions. This has caused great complications in the application of the rules and has hindered the proper functioning of the justice system in general. Therefore, an important part of the activity of the Supreme Court is to answer legal questions in order to clarify possible discrepancies which arise in the case law of the general courts. The caselaw in cassation cases was also diverse in nature. Despite many years of validity, the cassation system is still presented as imperfect by the applicants. This is due to various reasons, including the fact that there is a misunderstanding among citizens that the cassation complaint is not the third degree of settlement of the dispute, but that it is in the public interest. A cassation complaint shall not be the third option to settle a dispute. And in the complaints it is often apparent that it is the client, the plaintiff or the defendant, who requires his agent to file a cassation complaint. It is visible in the writings when the plenipotentiaries write: at the request of my client I say both. And now I'm moving on to the most important decisions. The first chamber is the Civil Chamber, the largest, deciding many cases. The phenomenon of multicentricity of law is clear here. I was talking about it last year, standing here in front of the High Senate. • the penetration of different levels of national and international law. Maybe you should give us an example. This is, for example. Insolvency of the travel agency, resolution III of the CZP 18/16, and second resolution concerning the re-registration of the bankruptcy of the company in the National Court Register. Both of these resolutions were adopted in the context of the interpretation of national provisions in the context of European directives. By the way, it can be said that the implementation of these directives is not the best, since everything must come to the Supreme Court. Of course, last year a major challenge for the judicial authorities was the consequences of the conflict that arose in connection with the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. Assuming that the rule of legalism applies to the authorities of the legislative authority, including the Sejm. 7 Constitutions As well as the principle of the balance of the authorities set out in Article. 10 constitutions, the Supreme Court stated that judgments publicly declared, although not promulgated, bind the courts, but in the jurisdictional sphere. The Supreme Court held that, after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, SK 71/13, in which it referred to the protection by the imposition of a compulsory mortgage and the deferral of the loss of its power, the court may, of its own motion or on request, extend or shorten the time limit laid down in that provision, as well as determine its origin or use a combination of those conditions, the fulfilment of which depends on the attitude of the entitled party. The court should be guided by the effectiveness of the security and the temporary nature of the protection of those claims. At the time of this provision, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was not yet declared, but the Supreme Court considered that, despite its failure to declare it, it was binding in the jurisdictional sphere for the benefit of the citizens. Legal issues have also appeared in other judgments. It has always been pointed out that there is an exclusive jurisdiction of the Constitutional Tribunal to rule on the non-compliance of laws with the Constitution, but it has been assumed that this does not eliminate the possibility for the general court not to apply the laws of the Constitutional Tribunal, which are identical to those which have been derogated in the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, when the same non-constitutional content is then re-used in the legislative act. The need to take account of constitutional standards was of vital importance to citizens. Here you can mention a resolution in which, among others, one of the constitutional rules. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 45 of the Constitution, the obligation to draw the parties' attention to the possible need to modify the recognition of the request has been demonstrated. This was the case for the resolution III CZP 112/14. So this contra-disciplinaryity in such a pure form has been slightly shaken here. The same provisions of the basic law have become the source of a position on the information obligation of the court concerning the determination of injury and the related modification of evidence. This was the case in judgment V CSK 294/15. The importance of constitutional standards in the interpretation of the law was the subject of a more general but categorical statement by the Supreme Court in the explanatory memorandum of order V CSK 455/15. The Supreme Court pointed out that the general interpretative directive is in force in the legal text relating to the freedoms and rights of individuals: in dubio pro libertate. In accordance with this principle, none of the individual cases of citizens can be resolved in such a way as to undermine the obligation to respect human dignity and the right to freedom. Legislative shortcomings have been signalled in many of the Judicats of the Civil Chamber. For example, resolutions III CZP 86/16 and III CZP 77/16 stated that there was a lack of fiscal lawsuits which were not to be heard in pre-trial proceedings. This is about the need for aid, the absence of this regulation. The need for additions also referred to intertemporal threads, which are often missing. In the Civilian Chamber's activities, a significant number of cases concerned liability for damages and therefore the issue of insurance contracts. This year, a conference on liability for damages was held by the Supreme Court and the association of the "Iustitia' association. The Supreme Court, for example. took the view that the insurance provided under the compulsory insurance contract for motor vehicle owners also included the cost of treatment not financed by public funds. However, the greatest difficulties of interpretation are still in the area of procedural law. This is the problem of electronic protocol, this is a lot of related interpretation difficulties. E.g. The transcription of the protocol was considered not to be an official document, and if it is not possible to establish the content of the activities based on audio-video recording, all activities must be repeated. From a citizen's point of view, it is unappreciable to enforce judicial costs, which still raises doubts. A resolution on the obligation for the losing party to reimburse the costs of coming to the court of a lawyer or legal adviser must be given. It is also necessary to note the issue of bailiffs and to state that the costs of enforcement proceedings may be increased by VAT or not. The Supreme Court has decided that it cannot, but it will still be decided by the 7 judges. This is not a settled matter, and this is the case where the gaps are discussed. The case law of the Civil Chamber has repeatedly stressed the importance of European Union law. For example, in judgment IV CSK 270/15, the Supreme Court stated that the provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights could be the basis for judgment or appeal, but only in a case falling within the scope of Union law. In other cases, only pro-Union interpretation can be made. It is also worth mentioning a resolution on cemeteries. It takes the view that the cemetery manager cannot demand permission from the court to exhume the corpse. I'm moving on to the more important resolutions of the Criminal Chamber. In the area of substantive criminal law and international law, a resolution was adopted in the composition of 7 judges I KZP 15/15. The Supreme Court, taking into account the binding international conventions of Poland, accepted that the offences of Article. 56 Act on the prevention of drug abuse committed by the perpetrator, which operates exclusively outside Poland, applies art. 113 k.k., which means that we apply a criminal law here in the case of a Polish citizen and a foreigner, which was decided not to give, if he committed a crime abroad. So we apply Polish law here. The interpretation of the concept of the nearest person is procedural. Last year it aroused a lot of emotions. The Supreme Court found that a person living together - that's the wording in Article. 115 §11 of the Criminal Code It is a person who stays with another person in a factual relationship where there is a spiritual, physical and economic connection. There's no important gender difference here. It's just a matter of refusing to testify. For the practice of applying the rules of procedure, it was important to adopt a resolution of the composition of the 7 judges in which it was decided that the expenditure related to the prosecution was also expenditure incurred on the lawyer by choice. If the accused is partially acquitted or partially dismissed against him, he may demand that the Treasury reimburse the costs, including the partial costs. It's an emergency cassation. This problem appeared in resolution I KZP 6/16. The Supreme Court held that the order of the court to uphold the order of the prosecutor to terminate the proceedings in the in-rem phase is not a final judgment of the court terminating the proceedings from which the appeal is pending. The suspension of the limitation period was a matter very much discussed by the Supreme Court judges with regard to the disciplinary liability of the judges. The Supreme Court, in its resolution of 7 Judges, indicated that the suspension of the limitation period shall take place on the date of referral to the disciplinary court of an application for authorisation of a judge or prosecutor to be held liable. That was the answer to the first president's question. Intertemporal problem. The resolution of the 7 Supreme Court Judges I KZP 10/16, which was given the power of the legal principle, deserves special attention here. The Supreme Court held that in cases after 14 April 2016, in which an indictment or an appropriate application was sent to the court before 1 July 2015, the provisions of the new version of 15 April 2016 apply. It was not clear because there were changes in criminal law. In addition to the resolutions, particular attention should be paid to issues which were related to the entry into force of the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Supreme Court interpreted the article in the first place. 523 k.p.k., considering that the purpose of this provision was to introduce an exception to the principle that the cancellation is not solely due to the disproportionateness of the penalty. Third Chamber is the Chamber of Work. It is a chamber in which I feel best and most competent. There is an advantage here in social security matters, which is natural. Last year, there was a rather extraordinarily situation here, with two resolutions, the Supreme Court gave effect to the rule of law. It's usually very rare. In his first resolution, he stated that in the case of an invention of remuneration for the use of this invention of the admissibility of the cassation action, the value of the object of the action envisaged for the perpetrator in the field of labour law is determined by the value of the subject matter. So this possibility has been extended here. In its second resolution, III UZP 2/16, the Supreme Court adopted that in the case of the existence or non-existence of a social security relationship or its scope, the basis for the award of a fee for the activities of attorney-in-law, the attorney-in-law for substitution, constitute minimum rates depending on the value of the subject matter of the dispute. In addition to giving effect to this legal principle, the Supreme Court took the view that the interpretation provided had only been binding since the date of its adoption, i.e. those costs could not be claimed backwards. The social security issue also concerned the obligation to pay contributions to the Post-Most Pension Fund. This is a very important issue for future pensioners. The Supreme Court considered that contributions should also be paid from part-time workers. The determination of compliance with Polish insurance legislation has been the subject of many judgments. These matters are not well resolved legislatively, as we pay attention to. The problem of labour law is also in the work room. Can a public school teacher take over this school for guidance as a natural person get a briefing, or can't he? The second issue concerned the question of whether a worker could claim compensation for breach of the principle of equal treatment in employment due to a defective termination of the contract if he had not previously made a claim for that termination to the court. This is where the opportunity was granted. It's so pro-working, too. The activities of the Military Chamber are small, the Military Chamber itself. Eight cassations were arranged, 19 appeals, because there are also appeals in this Chamber, 25 complaints, 7 cases marked by the "Strictly Secret" clause, which gives rise to certain perturbations in the ruling. There are 11 outstanding cases left, 1 cancellation, 6 appeals and 1 legal issue. As I said, all the judges in this Military Chamber have ruled in the Supreme Court Penalty Chamber. In total, they participated in the diagnosis of 283 cases There are only 7 of them at all, of which 106 were rapporteurs. The statistical increase in the number of legal issues recognized by the Supreme Court, the weight of the interpretation problems raised, entitles me to conclude that the main importance in the activity of the Supreme Court is, however, the legislative activity. In 2016, the number of provisions to refuse to adopt a resolution increased slightly. There was a motion for a resolution and there was a refusal. The causes of this phenomenon are very complex. Relatively often, questions asked by common courts did not require a fundamental interpretation. In 2016, the Supreme Court continued its long-standing practice of making its findings in a thorough and comprehensive legal analysis in order to promote this interpretation and knowledge of the law. In view of the political position of the Supreme Court, it is important to make public its judgments and at the moment there is wide access to the Supreme Court judicates. In his judgments, he repeatedly signalled the perceived shortcomings of the legal regulations by submitting the claims of de lege ferenda. Reservations concerning the applicable provisions, discrepancies in case law are reported by me in a separate notebook of observations of irregularities and gaps found in the law. Here I must say that a great credit for the creation of this notebook or even a notebook has the Senate, and especially Mr. Marshal Seweryński, who pointed out to me that it is my duty to show such discrepancies. [[It was a request.]] Thank you very much, but now I'm praised for it, so I can thank the marshal, too. To sum up the activities of the Supreme Court and the results obtained at work both in terms of the level of case law and the difficulties associated with this multicentricity in judgment, with the overall number of cases, I would say that I think it can be assessed positively. Maintaining the efficiency of the Supreme Court is a personal merit of the judges and an expression of care for the protection of citizens. In a broader context, this is the result of the activity of all the employees of the Supreme Court, to whom I always thank. I would like to say that these observations about the irregularities and gaps found in the law that have been presented here are not merely the result of our assessment, our judgments, the Supreme Court rulings. Each year, we address questions to appeal courts which see the need to amend the rules precisely because of some interpretation discrepancy that arises or difficulties in interpretation. These comments are of a different nature, more serious, less serious, but they are the result of analyses by appeal courts, which in turn ask their lower courts... That's the case. I think the most important ones are those that concern civil law, e.g. limitation of passenger's claims on compensation for delayed flight It doesn't give up at all at the moment The issue of reverse mortgage, the application of the Paulian complaint to public claims, the recurring problem of the perpetual use of multi-station garages, as I also mentioned last year, or the status of a bailiff as a VAT taxpayer, which is unresolved. There's gonna be a resolution for the 7 Supreme Court judges because there were discrepancies in these three... But that's the point. also the Supreme Administrative Court, because it is about VAT. So this needs to be fully regulated. Next: intellectual property law... I told you last year that we have some wrong or not quite good solutions here. My greatest surprise, which may have resulted from my ignorance of things, is related to family and caring law, which to a very large extent in these problems... It is a matter of agreement on how to exercise parental authority and, in general, parental authority, the position of the child in the trial. We have a very good analysis of the Justice Institute at the Minister of Justice. That's what Professor Cholewińska and Dr. Domanski do. It would be useful to try to reform these rules, to seek their advice and advice, because these are people who really know about it, and family matters, especially the issues of contact with a child, are very sensitive and difficult issues. Here you have to be careful of the child's welfare. Thank you very much. That is where I would like to conclude my report. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u290	Thank you very much, Madam President. Would any of you senators like to ask the president's questions? You're welcome. First Senator Ambrozik and then Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u291	Madam President, I would like to ask whether the Supreme Court uses the services of external law firms as part of its activities and, if so, the costs involved. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Can I answer right away?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u292	I think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u293	I understand that you were provoked to ask this question, not from last year, but from the previous year, and the fact that I have appointed an attorney before the Constitutional Court of Racial Counsel. That was when I just took office and had to have good, professional powers in constitutional law. We already have them now, but then It wasn't last year. It cost me 10,000 zlotys. At the moment, we no longer use any such services.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u295	Thank you. I would like to thank you, Madam President of the Supreme Court, for giving the Senate opinions on the active activities of the government and the group of Members. I'll be honest with you, everyone's read... Of course, everyone with a different effect. Now, let me get to the questions. Does the government's external activities in the area of arbitrary budget undermining, public insulting, downgrading the profession of judge, and finally a militant offensive to the Supreme Court in Warsaw limit the ability of the Supreme Court to exercise judicial authority? This is accompanied by the question: are not judges, known for their knowledge of the details of the law, suing for insulting the profession? Every profession in Poland has legal protection and accusations, which the Attorney General directs, in my opinion not so much accuse individual judges as they accuse a judge. Come on. Is what happened before the court and in the Supreme Court, or hooligan freaks, being reported to the prosecutor's office and being the subject of a response from the prosecutor's office? Thank you. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Am I replying right away?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u296	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u297	Thank you very much for recognising the senator. We have very good legal services for opinions and, I believe, some of the best in terms of technical aspects of the various issues. When it comes to insulting a judge's profession, it may go a little beyond the answer to the question asked, but I would say that I think there has been a worrying situation that the profession of a judge is discredited by some media and by the government. It won't be done for many years. I already told you that. And the judge can only really be a judge if he enjoys public confidence. If that trust is taken from him, he's no longer a judge. And that's where we're headed. For the time being, this insult did not affect the activity of the Supreme Court, although this town, so nicely named, standing before the Supreme Court, made our lives very difficult and undermined our belief that anyone would stand in our defense, because I informed everyone about what was going on, from the prosecution's office to the police, the fire department, because such a threat was also, etc., etc. As regards the use of Article. 23 and 24 civil code by the Supreme Court, for the protection of the good name of the Supreme Court, I have the expertise, already done. We were called the octopus of our time in the media, in those less known, but it was very clear: corruption in the Supreme Court, the octopus. So I ordered the Bureau of Studies and Analysis to prepare such an opinion, whether I, as Supreme Court, can apply for an insult to the personal property of the Supreme Court, and I received the answer that I rather did not, because we are only a statio fiscis. However, judges themselves can benefit from such measures. As far as I'm concerned, only one of the judges came forward because he was being prosecuted. I myself have never decided to speak personally against those who have spoken to me against these media, considering that this will cause even greater publicity. Taking care of the office I'm in, I didn't want to spread it, and considering that it's niche newspapers or online media that write about it in a disgusting way, and I know who's writing it, and I can still report it, because it's not over. Now I'm thinking about it because I reported to the prosecutor's office the insult of the first Supreme Court President with this ladder, installation of a career path and president with a bra. I'm mentioned by name, but I'm not talking about my name, I'm talking about the institution: the first president of the Supreme Court. On Friday I'm going to the D.A.'s office as a witness in this case, because this installation was photographed, publicly presented, it was called an art installation in this town. It shocked me, I really thought it was already crossing all barriers and boundaries. And that's why If the D.A. doesn't do anything about it. I myself will apply for protection of personal property, because I was mentioned there by name. You can't stand someone who's been working hard for 40 years and say that my career's way is through a bra. That's what it looks like. [[Madam President, I'm sorry... actually these are the things that can cover the first question. I was talking about arbitrary interference in the formation of the Supreme Court's budget. And does this interference allow the Supreme Court to carry out its duties?]] Oh, I forgot. I don't recall any direct interference in budget execution, because the court's budget... [[It's a setup.]] Ah, a determination. Well, fixing always means interference, because we always get less than we want. And there's always a problem that we can't do something, e.g. We can't... As long as I'm president, we're shutting down the different areas where the judges work so that there's no such common access as it is everywhere, even in the city's offices, because we don't have the money for it. We can do this once a year, which means we can shut down one such sector. And that's always a limit. Yeah, but I think all the servants have limitations, so I'd be here... Last year I had a very good budget, I can't complain here, and what's gonna happen this year, I don't know. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u298	Thank you very much. You're Marshal Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u299	I would like to ask the President a question which has plagued me since the resolution of the Supreme Court, which the President has already spoken of here today. On the basis of which the Supreme Court considered that it would apply unpublished decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, since the Constitution in its Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 3 says the Court's ruling enters into force on the day of the announcement? And then he tells us elsewhere how this announcement should be made. I remember that when I was a student, and then when I stopped being a student, and I became an academic teacher... He's still learning students in college about the fact that unpublished legislation doesn't apply. And that the unpublished sentence doesn't apply either. Well, there's a special case here, because it's the Court's ruling on which the constitution leaves no doubt about it. The unpublished ruling doesn't enter into force. I allow myself to ask this question because the President did not provide this justification, but informed us that the court had decided to apply the decision not published.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u300	The situation in which the Supreme Court applied a judgment which had not yet been published This was a positive assessment by those who participated in the dispute. The Supreme Court and the courts can rule in accordance with the law and the Constitution, so even if the Supreme Court could already argue that the Constitution should be applied here. Abstracting from the political disputes that took place this year and last year, I would like to say that the problem of the application of the law which the courts know is already repealed, but the date of entry into force of this repeal has not yet come, has existed for many, many years and has been treated very differently. The Supreme Court has always held that it has the right to apply the constitution directly. And in such a situation, quite aberrant, in which we already know that something is wrong, but the ruling has not yet come into force... It was decided that it would come into force because there was no such thing as it wasn't published because someone didn't want to publish, but it didn't come into force yet, and it came into force in six months. The Supreme Court, like the courts, considered that in this case In a given case, because this is not a derogation from the rules It has the right to apply the constitution directly. This dispute between the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Tribunal was known, we have a lot of statements by Professor Garlicki and Professor Sanetry on this subject, they kind of, so to speak colloquially, argued in this regard. It's like he's alive in this new situation. But it is not unusual that it was considered that, in another situation, similar, we could also apply the constitution directly. I think it was...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u301	I don't see any more calls... Oh, there you go, Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u302	Madam President, I actually have Such a rather delicate question and it is a little bit next to the report, but it concerns the situation of the Supreme Court and judges. More specifically, how do you assess the change in the law that leads to the fact that this year's statements of property of judges have been published and not, so far, published only in a closed circulation? It is delicate because your person also appeared later in some press comments. It seems to me that this change is also part of an action against judges based on such low instincts. Does it actually increase also And that's what I'd like to ask you. Any threat from the criminal world or blackmailers in general to judges? How do you assess this change of law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u303	Well, I'm judging this change of law very badly. I didn't just express it in the Supreme Court's opinions. 'Cause it's not just my opinion. But also in speeches, because I think that giving such information to the curious will be very bad for the position of judges. This is a profession that you do your whole life. There aren't many judges in a small town, we know who the judge is. And so everyone clicks and knows what a judge like that has. I live in Żoliborz I'm gonna finish this. And it's like a small town. I've lived in Żoliborz all my life. Everyone knows me. And I have to say that personally right now, after publishing information about my assets Which is significant, which I have never hidden, because I come from a fairly rich, wealthy family and worked 40 years as legal counsel, it is not the money earned at the judge's office I feel absolutely threatened. And it's coming to me right now. I wish I'd written to the president so he wouldn't publish my statements. Although I didn't premeditated because I knew there was gonna be rape, that what she was hiding there. And it is well known that our statements have always been public to the services and services they have been able to investigate. And there's nothing to hide, but there's no reason for the media, the different authors of the facts, to shake on it, and say, look how rich it is. I'm all of them. I told you I was the richest Supreme Court judge. Because I knew those statements. And that's too bad. In fact, in a normal country, it would be a glory. [[Applause]] [[Senators do that, too.]] Senators may, too, but for a while.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u304	Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, I, in fact, would like to join in thanking you for the preparation, under very difficult conditions, of this report, which has been delivered with calmness. But first of all, I would also like to join those voices that should sound here and every single chamber, among people who respect not only freedom of expression, but human freedom at all. 'Cause that's normal bullshit and rudeness if you write these chauvinistic texts about women in politics or women in high positions, giving out your really mean... Well, I'm gonna put an end to this... A woman is not judged by what she can and is prepared to do her job. The basis for evaluation is gender determination. And it's got to sound like it. Also here. My question is yes. Professor, in connection with attacks on judges, on the judiciary, among others. Also to the Supreme Court... This senses that the changes that have occurred, which are a fact, will also affect the Supreme Court. Madam President, I'm going to ask you straight away: were there already people leaving, judges who were prepared... Years of practice and occupation are needed to be a good judge in the Supreme Court. Were there many such walks, such as preventive ones, aimed at not going through that face in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u306	Thank you very much, Senator, for the good words. I never thought you could be professionally discriminated against on grounds of sex. I've had strange thoughts like that. That's what it looks like right now. I'm very sorry that it touched me in my old age. As far as the Supreme Court judges are concerned, the situation is obviously not pink. That's what we know. They are largely young judges, but there are also many who could benefit from the right to retire, especially in 2017. I didn't see them leaving. They love their profession very much, and those who are healthy would rather stay and work until they are seventy-two years old than go away. I didn't see any escape, but I don't know how it's gonna go. For now, we're all happy to be celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Court. I hope we can celebrate this anniversary in September. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u307	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u308	Madam President, I too congratulate the integrity of character. Your example is very important for the whole environment and for Poles. We'll celebrate on a special day, so I'd like to ask Although the report concerns the previous year, did the Supreme Court comment on the law adopted today by the Sejm on the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial Council. What was the opinion? I'm asking because I don't know how many hours or minutes we're gonna have to get our opinions straight. Second question. You mentioned that you also deal with European law. You were talking about the Charter of Fundamental Rights. As we know, Poland and the United Kingdom have not explicitly accepted this Charter in the Treaty of Lisbon and there is a dispute as to how it applies in Poland. I hear very different opinions about this. What is the Supreme Court's position here? To what extent Have you been handling the case of this card? From very specific matters... Would you mind addressing the issue of reverse mortgage credit? It seems to me that we as chambers may be returning to this bill, because the bill has been passed, and there are virtually no offers. Then something's wrong. Perhaps your opinion would be helpful here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u309	Maybe I'll answer your question about the loan right away. I'm not a professional, I'm a worker. But the point is that the provisions on reverse mortgage credit do not require the electronic form to be provided to the borrower on a durable medium. They don't get that kind of information on a durable medium. All this exact information is on page 13, Mr. Senator. I'm not gonna read because I don't know myself. But it also needs to be changed by art. That's what my creators write. • sanctions to reduce the cost of credit. These are pretty big problems and maybe that's why these reverse loans They're not working. I also think that, for traditional reasons, people don't want to get rid of apartments. At most, the reverse credit will benefit those who don't have children. I think it's tradition. I forgot those first questions, I didn't write them down. [[State's position on...]] Cards? [[Position on the National Courts and Charter of Fundamental Rights.]] Opinions on the National Courts and amending the Law on the System of General Courts are published on the Supreme Court's website. They were passed on and negative. Well, maybe not like en block, but about these basic points... But they were basically negative. As far as the Charter of Fundamental Rights is concerned, the Supreme Court speaks softly, but always goes in such a way that the spirit of the Charter must be taken into account. Well, he won't say it's a rigid law, but a spirit must be observed to some extent. And that is what the speeches are about, also in terms of science, especially in terms of labour law, as I can tell you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u310	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u311	Madam President, tell me what it's like to work with other public authorities. I mean the President, the Prime Minister, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate. Do they even come to the general assemblies of the Supreme Court judges? It was customary, I remember the representatives of the supreme authorities coming, and when they couldn't, they sent their high representatives. How do you assess this cooperation?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u312	Unfortunately, I must say that in terms of coming to my invitation to general meetings, it is worse every year. I understand it as a dislike for me, because they're always invited, but they're not. Well, that's too bad. There's some representatives out there, just not as high as I'd expect. I remember that when I was still an employee of the Supreme Court, Professor Kaczyński was attending assemblies. Now the president doesn't happen at all. Well, that's okay. That's the situation. As far as direct contacts are concerned, those that are at work, actually I have no contact with the Prime Minister, with Minister Ziobra only when I ask for delegations. I haven't received these delegations at all lately, so I don't have good contacts either. I understand that this is some kind of policy for further... [[Delegation for judges.]] Delegations to the Supreme Court of Appeals, because it usually looked like we were investigating those judges who seemed to us, on the basis of justifications, very good at working in the Supreme Court, such delegations for 3 months. Like I said, three judges were on a delegation like this last year. This year, I don't think we have any right now, even though I'm acting out there, I'm trying because there's no other way to promote these judges. This should be normalized. And as far as the President is concerned, I have now applied for various medals on the occasion of the 100th anniversary for the administrative staff of the Supreme Court, who have worked in court for over 20 years. I think maybe I'll get these medals because they're for people, not for judges, just for people who've been working in court for many, many years. But we'll see. As far as the appointments are concerned, it's looked pretty good for now. But we will see, because now I have three very young people waiting for the signature of the President and the nomination. We'll see what it looks like, but I hope it's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u313	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u314	Madam President, thank you for proving that the judges are human and that you are talking about it, because I believe that the judges have not spoken enough so far. And they didn't talk enough to the public. I would like to thank you for explaining this, and for standing in front of people, for presenting the situation that we have right now. I would like to wish you dearly for the 100th anniversary of the reborn judiciary for all judges, but also for the employees of the Supreme Court, although I believe it is a black year of the Polish judiciary. And precisely, Madam President, I would like to ask about foreign reactions to the situation in Polish judiciary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u315	First of all, thank you very much for your words of encouragement. I think everyone does what they think they should do. I would like to say that the judges did not talk about the work of the courts because they were always taught that the judge was only speaking through judgments and there was no possibility that the judge would go somewhere and tell someone how hard or hard he worked, what were the reasons for such a judgment or any other judgment. It was absolutely the norm as part of the judges' training. Judges aren't used to being in the media. We learn it, the National Judicial Council learns it. I have a fantastic press secretary right now, a judge, but these flowers aren't born on a rock, that's one... And if he's sick, no one else wants to go to the media because the judges can't... I don't really know how to do it, either, although I've got this academic thing, so it's easier for me. But the judge's on trial. That's the situation, that's the narrative right now, that the judge is supposed to be with the crowd and explain everything to him. It's very populist. It really lowers authority, and I'm very scared of what's gonna happen in three years. There won't be any judges, really judges, because they won't have authority to be the greatest... Because that authority was ruined... [[applause]] Thank you very much, but it's not about you admitting that I'm right, I just have this feeling... I'm from a semi-judge family, my mom was a judge. Her dream was for me to be the judge, to consider it the greatest freedom profession. I don't know if that's how she'd feel right now. She really encouraged me to follow in her footsteps, and I was like, I did, and now I'm a judge, hard enough... maybe it wasn't hard, because maybe it was the right thing to do to say that most judges are really good people. The fact that there are cases, four or five, that someone spelled that they behaved badly, is really not much. The judge isn't gonna go to the open game because he's gonna be afraid he's gonna pick up his authority. He is constantly limited in the way he is, in contact with friends, with friends, especially if he is in a small town. It's kind of a princely profession. But it is, and if it is, we'll see. I hope it's gonna be okay, too. [[I'm sorry. I also asked about these foreign reactions, Madam President.]] Foreign reactions are more addressed to the National Judicial Council. I have a direct connection with the network of Supreme Courts. This reaction is such an astonishment. We have different letters of support there. They're gathering there. It's a lot of countries, so it takes a long time. Of course, there is great concern about such rapid changes, unfortunately, in one direction. This is important, but I don't think it will cure our judiciary or change the direction of change. I now expect a change in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u316	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u317	But first a little question, I'd say, below the belt. But just during your performance, he called... [[Voice from the hall: Professor.]] ...professor with a lot of practice That's how I'm gonna put it. When he found out he wasn't gonna bother you, he said, and this is a communist court. That's an opinion. Not just the professor. Many environments even here, in this Chamber, have such opinions. The question, then, is geologic: how many people in the Supreme Court during the past Peerel functioned, say, as a judge about influences, i.e. the president of the district court, the voivodeship court? Or were they judges of the Supreme Court? That's the first question. Second question. You emphasized the president that you were in charge of labour law. Could you explain why a huge grey area was created in Poland in connection with the definition of employment contracts? Many district courts have passed different judgments. I do not remember that the Supreme Court clearly, i.e. by means of a resolution, perhaps even more than a resolution, set the boundaries of this gray zone at the so-called. A trash can. What do you think?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u318	When I get to it, I'm gonna say a lot. [[Thank you.]] I'm in charge of employment law right now, so I can talk. And from the scientific point of view, As far as these Supreme Court judges are concerned, that's what I do over 60 years of age. Because I don't know how. I had a question from Senator Jackowski. He's not here, and I wanted to ask you what it was about, exactly... The number of judges ruling in a peerel... There was a question. I said that those judges were 18 in one chamber and 18 in the other, 36 and a few in another. But if they're in Peerel, that means they were judges before 1989. These are people over the age of 60. Supreme Court judges aren't very young people, they're older people, because that's how a career goes. So those over 60 are like me. It started in 1975. How did they end up in 1970... I'm 65 years old. They're 60. It's a little later. They're the ones who made the application and went to court... [[But I don't think it's the Supreme Court.]] I'm going to the district. But I had a question about which one. I typed it in. I put everything in there. You've got it. These judges are, like, half of them. But this isn't some peerel. You can't say I'm a peerel employee. Unless you can... Born in 1952, maybe you can. So, generally speaking, this is the list I made for June 2016, due to the fact that I was over 60 years old. 'Cause I thought it was gonna be a reduced age. I wanted to prepare for any briefings. I figured half the Supreme Court would be fired. [[And how many of them were executives because...]] Nobody did, Mr. Senator. Well, what executive functions? [[Well, that's what they're...]] There's none left of Peerel, none of those who used to rule there. In 1989, it was a dozen or so judges who were absorbed after the removal of the old Supreme Court and the creation of a new one. There isn't, but they say we're peer judges. When it comes to junk deals, I don't like that name. They're not trash deals. These are civil law contracts that are often used for bad purposes, but that doesn't mean they're rubbish. These agreements are already a fact in our economic life, I think so, with a scientific view. Therefore, it cannot be said that they are gone and that they will not be, but that they must be civilized. And that's what's going on right now, and the legislator gives the contractors the right to work in a very broad way. Besides, these rights were also granted in the contract-orders themselves, and I investigated it. So it's not that big a problem. Now that we've introduced this minimum wage, it's actually economic status, I'm not saying that the whole social thing, because the employee is always covered by this larger employment stabilization... But it's already very good, because social security is the same, the Labour Fund is the same, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is the same. It's a job. Another case is a work contract, but we can't say that a work contract is supposed to cease to exist because this work agreement is needed. If we want to hire a plaster painter or someone to paint us a portrait, we need a contract for a work, not a job. Now in the Supreme Court, this border has moved very much. I'm not in line with my E.R. here. They take the view that actually the contract for the work is just the contract that deals with the work containing the creative element. They deny the status of a contract for a work of contract with musicians, saying that everyone can play in the orchestra. I don't know if it's right. I don't think so, but I'm not saying this as president, because the Supreme Court said so, and it's sacred, just as a scientist.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u319	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[About the corrigendum, Mr. Marshal. May I?]] Please. [[My...]] Turn on the microphone, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u320	Contract-order and trash contracts are indeed approaching the type of employment contracts, but e.g. women do not have at least 10 benefits resulting from the employment relationship in these cases. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: But do they always have one, Mr. Senator?]] I'm saying that they're different...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u321	And I know they're different, but it's a matter of the labour code itself, not social security. But should they? I'm always different with the senator. [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...because also about students, and insurance, and all sorts of things... [[Yes.]] ...in the Seym of the old days, we fought, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u322	Thank you very much, Madam President, for answering all your questions. I'm opening... Sorry, there's still a question. Senator Major. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u323	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Madam President, while listening to your speech, I feel that the justice system in Poland is quite perfect. And now there's a political group who's trying to break it up against everything. If the President were to take a critical look at the functioning of the justice system in Poland and point out its, say, 3 most serious shortcomings, what would the President have done here, what would the 3 most serious shortcomings of the current justice system be, aside from political issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u324	Too little financial expenditure on the organisation of justice, on courts, not on judges, just on courts; too few assistants and support services, which slows down work. In the West, this is used to a greater extent. Training. I believe that the judge's career from the beginning to the end of the court a little alienated him, alienated him from economic life. I have a different career, and that's why I have a different perspective. I think the economic and social and electronics situation is changing so fast that... the judge needs to see it and he needs to feel it. Even the judge who judges in employee matters needs to know how the company works. Is it a lecture or... It's best for him to go in there and see for himself what it looks like. I see that often far from reality is... the solution could also be to use experts to a greater extent, but judges don't like to use experts because that's always the point of view of another person. For such training in the course of the profession I'd bet very hard. They were run, that's why I'm talking so much about it. The Ministry of Justice has provided such training with EU funds. The University of Warsaw conducted such trainings. I did such a program for labour judges and, apart from classes in EU insurance law, these are very difficult cross-border issues, and I put a few hours in it about companies. And that was the greatest recognition these judges had, because they've already forgotten from college what it looks like. That would be the flaws. Such solutions would certainly speed up the work of the courts. Third point Mr. Senator said that the three most visible and capable of speeding up this work at once was due to a reduction in the cognition of the courts. The courts have too many cases to settle, but it's historically understandable. After 1989, no one wanted to go to any conciliation or other committees because they only had confidence in the court. And everything went to trial. Now these courts are insane because they have so many cases. I meet regional judges, family judges who have, as they say, 700 cases running. It's just uncontrollable. Imagine the closets with 700 cases in them. It's psychotic. So it would be necessary to reduce this cognition and to promote very much alternative dispute resolution, only that it has been promoted for several years and people are still going to court. It's weird for me, because on the one hand, they don't like these courts, they spit on these courts, and on the other hand, they get a ruling from a committee or some other authority, arbitration... If they have a clause that they can go to court, they're about to go to that courthouse. And then it misses the target. All these economic arbitrations, of course, are very quick to settle cases, only that, please pay attention, entries in these big business cases are big and it all goes to the hands of these arbitrators and this institution, and the judge of the court... I've done the math they say they're fat cats. Time of work of the judge of the district court This was at the beginning of my term of office at PLN 42 and the court of appeal at PLN 72. Well, I'm sure that would improve your work. A little money and a decrease in cognition. And this training, because it's important, too, but it would take constant training.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u325	Thank you. Mr. Senator Silence. May I ask, Mr. Marshal? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u326	Not in correction mode, but in question mode. The President was kind to say that judges were alienated because of the lack of training from reality. Does the President mean a system that would require a judge to participate in training, or voluntaryity in this regard, which means that if someone wants to participate, and if someone doesn't want to participate, they don't participate? Are we talking about some organized system that would make a judge, I don't know, have to attend three training courses in five years? Is that what the Supreme Court is proposing?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u327	I don't know, I don't like that kind of compulsion, but lawyers, lawyers have this kind of compulsion, and they have to get some training in a year or two. As far as I'm concerned, because I've been involved in these trainings, it turns out that judges are very, very happy to go, but there are places for everyone. And then there weren't places for everyone. It was EU training from the Ministry. Such training for judges involves financial resources. I don't want to say that they're alienated, but they move within their area of law, for example. labour law or insurance. But such labour law works in the middle of a whole and is just a cog in the economy. So you need to know what it's all about. That kind of knowledge always does the right thing. Professor Zieliński once told me this: the more you read the laws, the better. I've been complaining about the solicitor's application that I have to read so many laws. [[Voice from the room: So the system or the courses?]] Courses, lots of courses. Then they'll all go for it. And it would be best if there was a system.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u328	There you go. Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u329	Madam President, if it is not so bad with our justice system, why is the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in Rutkowski's pilot case against Poland, in its judgment of July 2015 stated that Poland suffers from the systemic problem of the chronicity of proceedings and the lack of proper response to complaints which people are complaining on the basis of the national institution about the chronicity of proceedings of 2004? This institution has been in force for 13 years. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court contributed to all this, because I will remind you It was the Supreme Court who interpreted this law so that it was actually ineffective. First of all, it introduced a fragmentation of the stage of the procedure into the interpretation. If someone complained that his case took 10 years, and the case has been at the stage of the appeal procedure for a year, the Supreme Court claimed that there was no length of proceedings, and explained that we were only bound by the examination of proceedings at the stage of the appeal court's proceedings. And yet a man who has a case in court and who has the right to expect, according to the article. 45 of the Constitution, that its case will be identified within a reasonable period of time, is not about artificial reflection on the extent to which the proceedings are affected by chronicity. Perhaps the proceedings before an appeal court, which lasts for months or even a year, are not yet chronic. It's just that someone's point is that it lasted nine or ten years before. This is the first case. Second thing. The Supreme Court gave bizarre interpretations in which he demanded that the person who filed the complaint should prove what kind of proceedings the court did not take or that it had taken too late, which led to the continuity of the proceedings. Such requirements laid down by the Supreme Court, which, by virtue of the authority of the Supreme Court, led the courts of the lower courts, were clearly contrary to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which indicated that all proceedings should be examined from the time of the application or the application until the end of the enforcement procedure. Has the Supreme Court drawn any conclusions from this? I know that a resolution finally appeared, which was probably adopted in the Labour Chamber in 2013, in which it was stated that the whole procedure should be taken into account. So that the glory of the work room that you represent is the president.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u330	I've heard the work room talk about fragmentation before. I blame myself for not being very well prepared to answer that question. The senator always asks it to me, and I thought he wasn't gonna do it this time. The continuity of proceedings is not only due to judicial action, but also to the number of cases, actions of lawyers, etc. Indeed, the issue of fragmentation was raised in the Chamber of Labour, but there was no such case law of the Court at the time. As soon as the Court ruled that all this was to be considered together, we also immediately decided that it was all together. And I just wouldn't want us to fire the baby with the bath. The speed of proceedings is the merit of the process, but it is not the only prerequisite for a well-solved case. The case is to be settled fairly, not quickly. For quickly, it can be cut, cut and done: you are guilty, you are innocent. The accumulation of evidence by the parties also causes it to delay, interrogation of these witnesses. Of course, we can say that the judge should choose. But he's afraid of repealing it, and so on. However, it is not acceptable for a trial to take place after 10 years. It's flawed and we're looking at it from the perspective of the whole process, I don't know if it's execution, I'm not sure, and that's how we're ruling on it. Except these damages aren't big. But it's not our fault, it's the legislator's.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u331	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u332	Madam President, I, when I examined this statistics, noticed one thing: nearly 70% of the cassation complaints, because probably 68%, are dealt with at the pre-trial stage, i.e. refusal to recognise, and then of those 30% or 32% Only half is taken into account. So you could say that 85% in total. cassation complaints are ineffective. Don't you think the president? The same is true of the action for finding that the judgment is unlawful, and the trace amounts of these complaints are taken into account that there is a defect in the institution itself, whether it is a cassation complaint or a complaint for finding that the judgment is unlawful? Because when a cassation complaint is filed, the public body is to decide that the complaint will be recognized at all, not the question of whether the case has been properly recognised, that is, what people judge is whether justice has been served, because people are actually going to court to obtain justice and not judgment, and unfortunately often feel that only the sentence has been obtained. Isn't it worthwhile to modify, in particular, the issue of the admissibility of the complaint in terms of the limitations that are there? Because it is known that there are limitations on the value of the subject matter of the proceedings, it is probably 50 thousand PLN in the process, or perhaps 150 thousand PLN in the non-trial. Don't you want to modify it so that some things are in the scope of the Supreme Court? Things are sometimes very lively, for example. as a result of these quota restrictions, a whole series of cases, very important for a man, such as a roof over his head, i.e. all eviction cases, escapes the court, because rarely will the value of the subject matter of the eviction case exceed PLN 50,000 unless someone had a rent of PLN 20,000 a month, then the value for 3 months will be PLN 60 thousand. But a number of important matters are eluded at all by the cognition of the Supreme Court, it can be said that to the detriment of the justice system in general, for the people, and also in a sense for the teaching of the law. After all, often the Supreme Court, when it examines these matters, contributes to the development of case law and also to the teachings of the law. However, a number of cases have now escaped the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u333	I would say this: nothing can last forever. Nor can the dispute last forever, and so one day it must end with a final decision that is unshakable. It was introduced after the changes, instead of an emergency review, which was an exceptional measure, but which only certain entities could benefit from. The Minister of Justice, the First President, the Attorney General, the Cassation Complaint Instrument due to everyone. But this is not the third degree of settlement, this is not the third instance for everyone, only when it comes to important matters that have the value of legal issues or divergences or where nullity is involved. And people would like the Supreme Court to take care of their case and see that someone is being wrongly judged. Half the people who are in court are unhappy because they have lost; half of those who have won are unhappy because they have not won enough. So, inevitably, many people who were in court are dissatisfied. It's rare to see someone who loses and says, "Yeah, I was wrong. There was an attempt to file a cassation complaint for everyone. The Supreme Court almost collapsed under this and started looking for restrictive instruments, which is why the cassation has been changed to a cassation complaint... or vice versa. Let's take a look at the achievements of the French cassation court, which doesn't come out of the backlog at all. There wouldn't be 10 months in Italy at all, and we're ruling here in 10 or 12 months the longest. It would take years for it to go so fast. Yesterday I heard from Mr. Counselor Chmaj On TV, he said The NSA's gonna be waiting two years for a case. And they're bragging that they're ruling in two months. I don't know how. Yeah, but they're probably considering the NSA, too, in these perspectives... Either way, it has to be an extraordinary measure, because we can't handle the third instance. 'Cause how do you limit it? Of course, this is a matter of my assessment as a lawyer, and the legislator can say: the nation wants a third instance. The cost of this will certainly be very high. The third instance is the third instance, anyone can come. I don't know if the Supreme Court has to deal with, for example. By eviction, it's enough for the courts of second instance to take care of it. It can also be tested. from the scientific point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u334	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President, for answering all your questions. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to vote for Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Thank you. I'm the one who can get out of this...]] Yeah, yeah. I already thanked you. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Unfortunately, you must, Madam President...]] [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Do I have to go?]] [[...because I'm going in there.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But we invite you to listen to the discussion. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Ah, so I don't have to go. Is that mine?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: No, it's not mine, but I'll take it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! Your report today is at a very sad moment for the judiciary. Today in the Seym, PiS passed 2 laws, basic for the general courts: the Act on the National Council of Courts and the Law on the system of common courts. The Act on the National Judicial Council interrupts the four-year term guaranteed by the Constitution for the members of the National Council, i.e. it violates the Constitution, and introduces a principle which will result in the political election of representatives to the National Judicial Council, which is crucial for the appointment of judges and for the promotion of judges. The second law, the Law on the system of universal courts, which was also passed today in the Sejm, gives rise to the submission of the administrative courts, namely the submission of the universal courts to the Minister of Justice, which is a politician. So it will be politically subordinate, because the appointment by the Minister of Presidents of the General Courts is the submission of the courts. Don't let anyone say the result will be different. And don't let anyone say the intention is different either. Today, the courts have been amputated with independence. There remains judicial independence, on which also through promotions, the organisation of courts' work political authority will have an influence. It's very important to me what's happening to the courts. The Constitutional Tribunal was subject to law and justice, before being subject to the prosecutor's office and at the moment reaching for the courts. Why is it so important to me? Because I remember the pending courts, the judges who acted on political orders, and I wouldn't want this situation to come back. There was a well-known judge, the President of the Provincial Court in Gdansk, Zieniuk, who judged Frasyniuk, Lisa, Michnik. President of the Voivodeship Court. It takes one or more of the subordinates who will receive political cases to preserve the entire justice system. So, Madam President, you were performing on a really tragic day. In 48 hours, this bill, these two laws passed today in the Seym, will go to the Senate. These are 48-hour bills. 48 hours on Friday. That's why Friday was booked by the Senate Marshal. I knew why we were waiting for Friday, why the sitting was three days and not, like before, two days. [[Friday the 13th.]] [[The 14th.]] So we will discuss this further. I will also speak in more detail on this issue, but I would like to emphasise: today and your report... The President rightly said that the Supreme Court remains. And then there's the government. But we have to do our job, because it's not our role, nor the senators, nor the parliamentarians, nor the judges, to go out on the street. We have the opportunity to function here, in Parliament, and we are taking advantage of this opportunity and will benefit from it, just as you are taking advantage of the independence of the Supreme Court. The only question is, when is the so-called. A good change will come for that too. I want to thank you, especially since you and the judges are under pressure. And especially for you in the recent period, after the independence of the Constitutional Court, they are very strong and very strong. I know you've clearly limited your conversations, your discussions outside, but I think it's unfortunately necessary to call and talk about these matters outside as well. I also know that you are against this Court's request to examine the legality of your choice by the PiS. I take this as an emphasis on your independence, your sovereignty and the independence of the court. That's the pressure. Not just you, but that's the pressure on the entire Supreme Court. But if we do what we have to do, according to our conscience and conviction, then I'm sure We will protect Poland from this devastation of the law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u336	Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! Madam First President of the Supreme Court! Today is actually a special day... Although we will be speaking in substance on these matters in about 12 hours. And in 48 hours, I think it will be, Mr. Marshal, after the adoption... So it's probably going to be a much shorter time. But today we're talking about the Supreme Court, the position of the Supreme Court, the authority of the Supreme Court, which I believe is absolutely indisputable. It's an authority that also allowed us MPs to have a compass, a busole. Because on the opinions of the Supreme Court, on this great authority, which is based not only on the integrity of the first president, but also on the great experience and scientific potential of the judges... When we were defending the Constitutional Court and we needed 8 or 9 approaches in this case It is every law that has been judged by the Supreme Court, and we have relied on this authority, on its opinions, and we continue to invoke it. This is a signpost for us. For us a signpost is also a resolution of the Supreme Court, which clearly states that the ruling of the Constitutional Court, regardless of whether it is published or not... Because the Constitutional Tribunal's rulings are final and no authority has the right to decide whether or not to publish them. The Constitution clearly states: publish them immediately! So, according to the Constitution, no authority has the right to stop a constitutional judgment that is final! [[Applause]] And that comes from the constitution. Therefore, it is not the promotion that decides, but the ruling. And it was the Supreme Court that made it clear. And this is a directive, this is an interpretation rule, which will be applied by judges who will be judges by appointment and who will understand what it means not to embezzle the independence of the judge. Of course, in difficult times there were also judges There were many such judges... But we do know that there is no judge in the Supreme Court who would rule in a peerel. However, as a lawyer from that time, I know many such judges. Not much, I myself am the son of a judge who ruled in Peerel and who by the Institute of National Remembrance was recognized as an outstanding judge and was honored, including the institution of the dead. Andrzej Carrier, many of them participated in this ceremony, among others. Senator Shark was involved. That's why I'm obliged, I'm simply obliged to my father, who's been dead for 25 years. As a judge who wasn't afraid and who was averted by an emergency search only... 'Cause he's been ruling for 20 years, and in the voivodeship review... And just because he didn't decide to be a party member, he didn't become a Supreme Court judge. But he was assessed as an outstanding judge and only 2 of his judgments, concerning priests, were repealed as a result of an emergency review. I believe that... But there has to be a pattern. And this model shows you the President and the Supreme Court. So that the judges know what independence means, which means clear rules. Of course, lawyers can argue about interpretation, but there are rules. Just as Newton's principles, like the Copenhagen rule, which no authority can overthrow, which is unambiguous and which is simply a canon of universal law. And these principles lawyers must, they should be faithful, following the example of the Supreme Court and the President, who actually shows what this true independence is, demanding special courage in these days. Not everyone can do it, but they should at least If they do not perform external functions, in case law show that they can actually afford independence. Of course, there will always be people in every system who will perform the so-called. Wet, political work. It's obvious. And they will be judged, as the former were judged. Because honesty and law is not a matter of politics today, but it is a matter, as I said, universal. That is why, of course, I join in congratulating the Supreme Court because there is a matter of his century and thanks, because he is actually doing a very important job. I agree with the problems of the justice system. I'd add some more stories here. Because, indeed, the length of the proceedings is a pain in the Supreme Court... Of course, it is a matter of funding services, etc., but I think it is also a matter of organisation of work. I also think that, indeed, our constitution, as the President said, creates a two-instant rather than a three-instant. But on the other hand, every time in criminal situations, I disagree when the suspension of proceedings prevents a cassation complaint. Very often the courts of second instance punish, which is the penalty resulting in civil death for people. And there's no way to control it. This is far more important than the value of the issue of civil claims. In my opinion, there's a problem here. Let us not be surprised that if this is authority, then people hope that in the Supreme Court they will find this justice. And very often they find it as a result of such excellent legal and factual analysis. These are judges prepared for the case, which unfortunately cannot always be said of regional and district judges, and sometimes even of appeal judges. We are talking here about the role of the Supreme Court, which I believe is fundamental and fundamental today. All eyes are on the Supreme Court, including you. Thus, as Marshal Borusewicz said, the function of the President, as it were, imposes on you an additional public obligation to show what the Supreme Court is doing, to indicate what these patterns are, so that it reaches the widest possible public opinion, but also to regional judges or assesors who are just about to begin their work. Everyone must realise that honesty, independence and independence of the courts are real foundations of a true democratic, free rule of law, and that is what we all want. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u338	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the President still like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: No, thank you. I'd like to thank everyone very much. I was afraid of that performance, but it went pretty well.]] [[Applause]] I thank the first president of the Supreme Court, Mrs Margaret Gersdorf, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of the activity of the Supreme Court in 2016. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u339	The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications submitted at the forty-fifth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and some other Acts will take place on 13 July at 8.15 p.m. in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of amendments to the Act amending the Act on Sport and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents will be held tomorrow at 8.30 am in room 179. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of applications submitted to the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and some other Acts will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-senat-45-1.u340	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, where do we begin tomorrow's deliberations?]] Since the fourth. [[Since the fourth. Thank you.]] Have a good night. [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 44]]
