ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Culture and Media - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10.45, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Foreign Affairs together with the Legislative Commission - hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on Energy and the Treasury - at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Volleyball Team - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: explanations of irregularities in cooperative savings and credit banks and the National Cooperative Savings and Credit Fund - hours. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Missionary Works - hour 12.30, - Lubuskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u2	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system (prints No 1975 and 1982). I ask Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report from two committees: the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the amendment of the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. At the order of the Marshal, the committees at the joint meeting on 6 November considered draft printing law 1975. The interesting discussion initiated by the government's authorised representative for strategic energy infrastructure, Minister Piotr Naimski, concerned not so much the new powers for the three companies of the Treasury, in respect of which the law simplifies the purchasing procedures necessary for the expansion of both electric transmission networks, i.e. companies that carry out energy transmission in Poland... This thread generally did not cause controversy among Members. Rather, it was discussed about other solutions in the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. This is a dispute that has been going on since significant changes to this law. I would like to remind you that the bill entails a significant simplification of the acquisition of real estate or the right to perpetual use, as well as the acquisition of shares and shares in commercial companies, which are the owners of agricultural real estate, by three companies: PERN, Gaz-System and PSE - Polish Electro-energy Networks, in situations where the usual utility of transmission is not sufficient. This is most often the case for small agricultural areas where transformer stations, piston systems, pumps that are necessary for the transport of liquid fuels or gas or electricity have to be built. It seems that this solution - such voices were generally dominant in the discussion - is good because this law does not eliminate two special laws, so-called. special arrangements which, in particular situations, in the case of specific transmission investments, allow even compulsory land buy-out, if necessary. On the other hand, in the most common situation, when an investor agrees with a farmer, the owner of the land as to the price and subject of the transaction, the implementation of the current rules, which very strongly protect agricultural land and which make it necessary for any transaction concerning agricultural property to be notified to the National Agricultural Support Centre, a new institution which has taken over the rights and obligations of the Agricultural Property Agency, greatly extends the process of obtaining consent for such transactions. Besides, it would be absolutely strange if strategic companies of the State Treasury, which are responsible for the energy security of Poland, were blocked when it comes to the purchase of small agricultural parcels necessary for them, even by the right of first purchase from KOWR, the National Centre for Agricultural Support. That would be absolutely incomprehensible. Let me remind you that the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system specifically protects agricultural land, giving the state institution also the right to interfere in transactions. It seems that this law actually responds to the expectations of farmers, although it is not the Scriptures, where, as I mentioned at the committee meeting, neither text can be changed. It follows from the announcement of the Minister of Agriculture that this law will also be revised in various areas where its operation has shown some need for correction. But here we are not discussing the change of the entire law, but about this very detailed and supported by most Members who speak in the discussion, which facilitates strategic companies of the Treasury responsible for energy security of the acquisition of real estate, perpetual use rights or shares in commercial companies which are owners of agricultural property without undue delay, so that we can feel secure in terms of energy security through these investments. The committees, after examining this, ask the High Sejm to accept without amending the draft law on printing 1975. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u4	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Malik will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to facilitate commercial law companies whose sole shareholder or shareholder is the State Treasury for the transmission of electricity, gas fuels or liquid acquisition of rights to parcels on which the transmission infrastructure is to be established. This applies to only a few entities pursuing the objectives of ensuring energy security of the Republic of Poland, including Polish Electro-energy Networks SA, Gas-System SA and PERN SA. The draft law is intended to provide a solution in a situation where the burden on real estate becomes insufficient by the law of transmission service and in order to enable the investment to be carried out, it is necessary to acquire the aforementioned. real estate companies. At present, it is extremely difficult to acquire the aforementioned. agricultural real estate companies necessary to carry out the investment because of the need to conduct proceedings for the approval of the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre to acquire the right to such real estate, and in some cases it is even extremely difficult because of the lack of the possibility of complying with the conditions for a positive decision. Also, the current provisions of the Act on the formation of the agricultural system make it difficult for companies belonging to capital groups to convert ownership, in which the State Treasury transfer companies are the parent companies. Then obtaining the consent of the Director of KOWR to transfer the right to real estate between companies belonging to the same capital group requires the disclosure of information regarding the possibility of acquiring real estate, which may lead to a breach of the energy security of the Republic of Poland as a result of the availability of knowledge regarding the management of real estate belonging to companies carrying out strategic activities and infrastructure on them. For all these reasons, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt an amendment to the law on shaping the agricultural system contained in the Parliamentary Printing No 1975. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u7	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The government's draft amendment to the law on the shaping of the agricultural system is another attempt to patch this harmful law, which, I will remind you, protect the Polish land from redemption by foreigners, while mainly creates problems for Polish families, farmers, entrepreneurs, local governments and, as it turns out, also state companies. The Act has already been amended several times by ad hoc partial amendments, as it turned out that its rules interfere with the normal functioning of the economy. For example, in July 2006 the restriction on the value of mortgages on agricultural property had to be removed from the Act, because the banks ceased to accept the land as collateral for loans. That didn't help much, because the bail bonds are still subject to the bill. Only individual farmers and entities with the permission of the National Agricultural Support Centre to acquire these properties may join them. The problem is that it is virtually impossible to obtain such consent before the auction, and this is detrimental to the interests of creditors and debtors themselves, including farmers. Agricultural real estate is still not treated as reliable collateral, especially by banks. This situation was further aggravated by a regulation issued this year by the Minister of Justice excluding a large part of the agricultural holding's assets from bail-out. Under the rigour of the law, traffic was also excluded because it turned out that in the light of the Agricultural System Act they are treated as agricultural real estate. The acquisition of land by national parks was also excluded. We would like to point out that this year the Mining Act excluded from the action of the Act on the formation of the agricultural system the acquisition of agricultural land by mining companies related to mines. Why did you have to do that? Because the provisions of the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system have hindered the restructuring of the mining sector. Today we deal with state transport operators. There are certainly still many places in the economy where irrational provisions of the agricultural system law make it difficult for companies carrying out public tasks. We predict that in the near future there will be a queue of other resorts, companies or environments demanding further amendments to the agricultural system law. In the case of citizens - and this is very interesting - the said Act on the agricultural system makes it difficult, first, to purchase agricultural land, second, to build houses by Polish families, because wherever there is no spatial planning, land with an area of 3,000. m2 and larger are treated as agricultural land and the approval of the President of the National Agricultural Support Centre is required for their purchase. After they have been purchased for 10 years, the land must be grown in person, not sold or leased. In view of this situation, I would also like to ask the question: Was it the will of the legislator that investments in Poland should only concern agricultural production? The practice so far shows that the government is implementing the scheme "Housing+', and it is very noble actions, but we are afraid that as a result of the act on shaping the agricultural system we will have programmes: home- and investment-. The Civic Platform points out that the provisions of the Act on the formation of the agricultural system complicate the process of distribution of inheritance assets in families, property of spouses after divorce or other abolition of joint ownership. In the light of this law, the in-laws are not close to their child's spouse, and the nephew cannot dispose of agricultural property for his uncle. Very complicated, but the point is to simplify these rules. This shows that the law on the shaping of the agricultural system applies profoundly even to intra-family property relations. That makes it harder for the inheritance process. The provisions proposed by the government to amend the agricultural system law may be justified but may not be selective. We believe that we should deal with a comprehensive decision. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, the Civic Platform is proposing amendments to this project and our club's final position will be followed by an analysis of the amendments tabled by our club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u8	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the committee's report on the government draft law on the amendment of the agricultural system law. The project aims, among others, at: amendment of the rules on facilitating companies whose sole shareholder or shareholder is the Treasury, the acquisition of ownership or the right to use perpetual agricultural property. The explanatory memorandum stressed how much easier it would be for energy companies to acquire agricultural property without the need to obtain the approval of the Director of the National Agricultural Support Centre. Not a single word has been mentioned, however, what a danger it will be for farmers to have forced sale of their land on which they produce their agricultural production, which brings them income. Of course, farmers will receive some price for the agricultural land sold, but this amount certainly does not cover the lost benefits, which is very important for the farmer, because the land is the main source of income for him. The amendment of the Act will eliminate the need for the transfer companies of the Treasury to obtain the consent of the Director of KOWR to acquire agricultural property, even if their area exceeds 300 hectares of agricultural area. This will in fact lead to the loss of control of the land movement by those responsible, namely ultimately the Minister of Agriculture, who should stand in the first row in defence of the agricultural land. I will inform you that more than 5 hectares of agricultural land are lost in Poland every day. I am not convinced in any way by the repeated argument that transactions will be made by entities of the State Treasury, because we have already experienced many times in our history the situation that state entities have ceased to be state-owned. This can also happen after collecting a huge amount of agricultural land, which is an extremely attractive place to locate capital. I would like to make it clear that the emergence of transmission networks is very important and I do not deny the need to create them. However, it should be noted that the basic institution serving this purpose is the serviceability of the transmission, not the buying and gathering of land. In my opinion, making it easier to purchase land for a number of operators will increase the number of cases where, instead of establishing transport service, it will simply buy land because it will simply be easier. Why negotiate with citizens the amount of the service charge if you can buy land or at least suggest it? The Director of KOWR, and by him the Minister of Agriculture, will have no impact on the acquisition of agricultural land. This is a very worrying phenomenon which may be a potential source of irregularities. In conclusion, the project may lead to undue concentration of agricultural land by companies. Farmers need arable land, not set aside in the hands of the state. Moreover, it is scandalous to deprive the Minister of Agriculture of control of the marketing of agricultural property, and I am surprised that the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture voluntarily waive not only their right but their obligation. So who, if not the Director of KOWR or the Minister of Agriculture, will be responsible for the regularity of farming land management in Poland? I'm gonna point out another shocking fact. It's about proceding this bill. The draft law last Friday arrived in the Sejm, it was given a print number, the first reading at the agricultural committee meeting took place on Monday, today is Thursday and the second reading is held, and the third reading may take place in a moment, although it will not take place, because I am proposing that this draft law be rejected. Thank you. [[There's gonna be a vote. I assure you, today will be a vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mr President, at second reading, I ask for a request in writing. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska will speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today, it is difficult for government representatives to discuss such an important subject. In fact, the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system has proved to be a disgrace to Law and Justice. It was supposed to protect the Polish land from foreigners, and it was supposed to protect it from Poles, systematically hindering their lives. The changes made last year actually prevented agricultural land from being traded, made it harder for farmers who, after making these changes, falling into financial difficulties, cannot freely dispose of their assets in order to get out of trouble. Being in difficult situations in life, they can't support their father, their property, to solve their problems. These changes make life difficult for Poles who would like to settle in rural areas, because today it is extremely difficult to acquire land in this area, except for small, small parcels which have been excluded from this law. They also make life difficult for entrepreneurs. The best proof that they make life difficult for companies of the State Treasury is this amendment that we are discussing today. This amendment, of course, speaks of a small piece of the whole problem, but it cannot be overlooked that it is not about blocking agricultural land trading in Poland as a result of the legal changes introduced by the PiS last year. Today companies of the Treasury e.g. they cannot freely implement the country's energy policy. The law, which has already rained many times from this podium and what I will repeat once again, absolutely does not protect the Polish land from foreigners, but this was one of its main objectives founded by the designers. For example, in 2015 foreigners acquired 420 ha of land in our country, and already in 2016 - 3 thousand. ha. So what does it turn out to be? Propaganda one, life the other. Of course, you hold your hand on all of this with the head of the agency, today it is the head of the KOWR, by hand signing every decision to sell the land. Question: "What are the real criteria for this earth? 'Cause we're probably gonna find out about real criteria, like we always do after a couple of years. The introduction of these provisions, cannot be overlooked, has also adversely affected the economic situation of our country. Already more than a year ago, when we investigated this blockage of agricultural land trading in Poland, I said it would be an investment paralysis. And there is no denying that we have been struggling with investment problems for two years, and blocking agricultural land is one of the many factors that have contributed to this. Companies invest less in Poland mainly in fear of changes, against the lack of law, principles that exist here, but also in Poland. because it is difficult for them to acquire land under investment areas, and if they purchase this land, unfortunately it is also becoming more expensive, because the land available on the market is more expensive, and this translates into the prices of our apartments, houses, construction services. So today we have such a situation that we have introduced a large blockage in the rotation of agricultural land, and now slowly, a drop into a drop, we are sealing the problem, but definitely this sealing is not enough. We have already excluded small plots for residential construction, roads, parks, as well as excavated areas, so that today public rehabilitation is possible, for public investment. But we still have a problem with the distribution of assets subject to inheritance in the case of agricultural families, and we still have a problem with the enforcement of debts, which makes the agricultural land, which has so far been a great security and investment, a great future investment for farmers and families living in the countryside, often a nuisance and cannot even provide good collateral for the credit necessary to carry out agricultural activities. We also have problems acquiring land for the construction of multi-family housing or for the construction of a school, which I already hear, they notice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your fellow Members, too. But the most important thing in all of this is one thing. It is not possible to distinguish between companies governed by commercial law and companies governed by the Treasury. I therefore make an amendment to restore the normal treatment of these entities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u12	Thank you, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I feel sorry for the Minister for having to listen to all these arguments here, because the objective is lofty, necessary and important, because transmission, energy infrastructure is important. But it was this country that you messed up earlier with this law about restricting sales to Poles, citizens, farmers of Polish land. The target was great. In the election campaign you promised, you said how great it would be to protect the land from sale. That's probably how you won the election, too. But what is the reality? We warned you about that. And it is a good thing that, at least in part, the bill has been reduced. Because if that were the case, the farmer wouldn't be able to hand over the land to his child. But right now, all these problems are coming out. Everyone can buy, everyone is important, only not a Polish citizen, only not a Polish farmer. Everything's the most important thing. As I said, transmission infrastructure is very important, miners are important because the world will collapse, because coal will run out, you have to give them land and procedures to ease. One at a time, one at a time. But the farmer, the restructuring of agriculture, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter that the farmer invested. You can take this land from him, transfer it to a company of the Treasury under the pipe. Today, these complications are huge. And here comes this hypocrisy and this deception of the Polish society. Therefore, such action cannot be further supported. Let's look at the sale of land to foreigners. They say we blocked the sale of land to foreigners, and they all believed it. Everyone wants the land to be in Polish hands, but as we look at the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, it will turn out that this sale continues and does not decrease. Only a Pole cannot buy, only a Polish farmer cannot buy. It's incomprehensible and it's insane. Therefore, unless there is a comprehensive solution and mitigation of these effects, especially for Polish citizens, for Polish farmers, we will no longer support such solutions, even though they are important and important. Because today energy is in trouble, too, you need big investments, just like in other industries. But such solutions, which partially choose only certain things, we will not support, because it is your fault, because it is you who have weighed on beer, you have determined so stupid that so to speak, inhuman law, and today the Polish People's Party, I will say directly, will not support these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u14	Thank you. The list of Members enrolled in the discussion has been exhausted. Now let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions, and these people are five. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is regrettable to hear that the Minister for Transport Infrastructure must hear about the bill which was adopted by the Minister for Agriculture. Minister, let me put it this way, this is an important investment that you must make, which you are obliged to make, and it is certainly in this amendment. I'm sorry that this applies to a bill that we've heard about before, that it's fatal and how many things, how many mistakes have been made in it. But not in the context of this law, but in the context of the law relating to agricultural land, but to your specific provisions of the law. The point is, Minister: What led you to believe that you also wanted to acquire shares and shares of commercial companies under this law? I understand you're acquiring property, that there's a right to perpetual use. It's understandable to me. But you want to come in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] capital through these three transmission company companies to agricultural companies. I don't get it. Would you be kind to answer my question about what you're going to do, that we're going to capitalise on these companies with agricultural companies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u16	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I mentioned in the committee's report that the main allegations concerned some mythical shortcomings in the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. It's repeated like a mantra. I guess those who say that don't really believe it. [[Voice from the room: Me, too.]] On the other hand, I have a question for you about a case that is coming up here, and it has also appeared in the comments of one of the representatives of the clubs, that this possibility which we are giving these three companies will be used to force farmers to sell land, and large areas - because such threats here are indicated that it will also cover an area of more than 300 ha - at prices imposed. You explained this at the committee meeting, but it may be necessary to approach it again now and to clarify that the issue concerns small areas which are essential for infrastructure elements which must be located outside the utility of transmission, and that they are agreed prices, negotiated prices, [[♪ The bell ♪]] market prices which are concluded with farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u18	Thank you very much. Now you are asking the question of Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, as we said at the beginning of its procession, the bill is bad, imperfect, it just doesn't change anything. The best example is that it was supposed to stop the sale to foreigners, and it turns out that foreigners bought more land during the period of validity of this law than during the period of validity of the previous law. Unfortunately, we have warned that this law will actually hinder the marketing of land to Poles and farmers. Here, Minister, the problem is that the important element of economic development, which is energy transmission - the energy development of Poland - is stopped by this bad law. And I have a question for the Minister: What is the demand for these companies to purchase land, how much land they need and how they will be purchased [[♪ The bell ♪]] from a Polish farmer? Because many farmers have met me with fear that they will be expropriated. So I'd appreciate it if the Minister could explain here how these land will be purchased...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u20	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u21	...from farmers, private operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u22	Now the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u23	Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u24	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As has already been mentioned many times, the government draft law introduces facilitations for transmission companies of the Treasury through the possibility of acquiring real estate without the need to obtain the consent of the director of KOWR. The law on the suspension of the sale of real estate, land, which tightened the rules relating to the marketing of agricultural land, entered into force more than 1.5 years ago and only after such a time was the need for exceptional facilitations - and still in a super-extraordinary manner - for several state-owned energy companies. I therefore ask the question: How many of these three state-owned companies acquired this land between January 2015 and 30 April 2016, and how much between 30 April 2016 and today? In how many cases the Director of KOWR agreed [[♪ The bell ♪]] for purchase, and how many have not given such consent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u26	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is actually a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Of course, I do not agree with the previous speaker that this is a good bill. It's a bad bill, written... Today's amendment is proof of thoughtlessness when writing the bill - thoughtlessness, which caused us to amend this law for the fourth time in 1.5 years. Like big cheese or big cake, we cut out more pieces that will not be under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture at all. That's one thing. Secondly, the Minister of Agriculture will not be able to look at... This is not about bullshit stories about selling to foreigners, but about protecting the agricultural land of the most important, the best class in Poland. That's what the Minister of Agriculture is getting rid of. By updating it again, we are showing the recklessness of this bill. I do not know who wrote this bill, but I have a huge request to the Prime Minister to gather her ministers at the Council of Ministers meeting and ask who else needs to change this bill because we will be until the end of our term of office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the matter with you? Prime Minister, check out your ministers, how they work and what they need. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u28	Thank you. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law is being conducted in an extraordinary way: it fell into the Sejm on Friday, and on Monday there was a rapid emphasis on the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to convene a committee to renegotiate this law. Today we have practically a report and there will probably still be a vote today. I have a question about what's really going on, because if there's something going on and there's such a rush... [[It's about the money.]] ...it's usually about money, and it's not about small money. And we have this provision in this Act, that it is not only about the companies mentioned in it being able to acquire agricultural property for the purpose of implementing the energy policy of the country, but also about them being able to acquire shares and shares of commercial companies, which are owners and users of perpetual agricultural real estate. Who do you really want to nationalize and take over? Minister, let's put the cards on the table. What's the hurry? [[♪ The bell ♪]] With this bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u30	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform Club. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Now it has dawned on me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The quality of this law has already been mentioned here, and indeed we all see that it has been and is still a bubel. This bill will be shutting down any special rights for special purposes every now and then. I have a question for you... I am surprised that the Minister of Agriculture does not run this law, because this refers to a law that directly concerns agriculture, but I have a question. The Act previously states that ecclesiastical legal persons have extrarightes to acquire land. Today, I do not know, after a year with a piece, it seems, the functioning of this law I would like to ask, what is the scale of the use by ecclesiastical legal persons of this law and of the possibility of any purchase, as it was, is enshrined in the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u32	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Piotr Naimski will now speak at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer the questions briefly. Mr Gadowski asked for the right to acquire the shares and shares of the companies in which the agricultural land is held. This is precisely the restriction which causes that if the agricultural land held by a company, another company, would be necessary for the construction of the transmission infrastructure, then it could be purchased in a simplified manner - the transmission company, the operator may be the buyer. That's it. That's it. There were three questions about how this acquisition of land would take place. It will take place in an absolutely market manner, in a simple and market manner. The farmer will have the right to sell his land to the operator, but he will have no obligation. On the other hand, from the buyer's side, the operator, it will be a simplified procedure, which will first of all not force to prove to the national centre, in front of the general manager of the national centre that there are no other stakeholders that there are no other entities who would like to acquire this land, and this particular piece of land, this parcel is needed for the development of the transmission network. So this is actually the main reason for this amendment. The farmer gets the opportunity to sell his land in a simplified manner not only to another farmer, but also to an operator, which is a 100% company of the Treasury. So, as it were, the disposal of land for the farmer is expanding. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But the minister could have given you free access...]] Member, allow me to finish. As for Mr Sachaika's question, we will answer in writing. I don't know these numbers right now, and I can't say it right now, but the answer will be in writing. [[Dunin asked, Dunin asked.]] All I can say is that there were very few cases. Mrs Niedziela's question. Mrs Niedziela at the session of the Parliament committee was also worried about whether it would be important land, i.e. agricultural land. I, second grade. I can say that what is currently of interest to operator companies is land whose class is not higher than IV. The Member asks what is going on here. The first company - the first operator, or actually the company - which will benefit from this amendment will be PERN SA and OLPP SA. We connect these two companies. The merger of these companies is already at the final stage. These are strategic companies. PERN is a 100% company of the Treasury and will remain so, and OLPP is a subsidiary of PERN, also of course a 100% company. Because we combine these two strategic companies, a new entity is formally created. We need to move the agricultural parcels that are in possession of, currently using OLPP, to the new company. These parcels are 167. They are used in different ways, but not agriculturally, but formally, they are agricultural. So we want to move them in an absolutely safe way. This is not possible, and we want to eliminate this amendment just so that it turns out that some third party, from the outside, when examining whether anyone is interested or not in a given plot, will be able to access it. And that is the answer to the question of the Member. The question of the amount of land acquired by the Church is not to me. Ask them in writing to the Minister for Agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u34	Thank you very much. You wanted to correct it, but the discussion has already taken place. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But the Minister referred to my...]] You're welcome, ma'am. Just straighten it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I understand that you have in mind a merger of your mother's company and daughter's company, but in fact, if that were the case, it wouldn't be a problem, it would be enough to write to the proper head of KOWR to give permission to transfer this land. Such consent is granted, such consent must be sought by all the citizens of our country who are not individual farmers today and wish to acquire agricultural land. I see no reason why all of a sudden you would have to gain huge opportunities for this one transaction, which puts you in a position of privileged right with respect to companies governed by commercial law, so I do not believe that this whole amendment is made for one transaction. Few of this, we cannot create laws in Poland that will enable us to carry out one deal, one transaction, because that is not the way to create the law. The law should be stable and fair, and democratic, for all economic operators. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u36	Thank you very much, Member. Minister. And we're gonna shut it down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Of course, it is not about giving special rights to one or another government. You are also mistaken because the essence of the matter is that the Director-General of KOWR can make such a decision, but after proving to the public that there are no other interested in the agricultural parcel concerned, and this is difficult for strategic companies of the State Treasury. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: There is no such condition in the bill.]] And that's it. On the other hand, the broader scope of this law is, of course, fully, 100% justified for this reason, that there are such cases where the power stations, when pressing gas stations must be placed on an additional piece of land, and in this case the right of use is insufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u38	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The recently amended agricultural system law is intended to ensure that Polish land serves Polish farmers, secures food security of Poland, is not subject to speculative phenomena or is bought out by foreigners, for example the so-called. poles, which happened in the past. This is a good law, but today's amendment is a way of meeting the interests of the so-called. transmission companies owned exclusively by the State Treasury. These companies are involved in the transmission of electricity, gas and oil. The Act is intended to provide an alternative to possible specializations that allow land to be bought out and invested in transport. Operators, and in practically three companies in Poland, will be able to use the easier path to buy land. My questions: 1. What is the expected scale of use of this legal path in the near future, and how valuable land can it be? 2. Will this path protect the interests of farmers - the landowners whom the transmission company will want to acquire, or will it be more beneficial, even if compared to the current path through specializations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u40	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the State Protection Service (Print No. 1916). I ask the Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present to the State a draft law on the State Protection Service, which will replace the previous service, this project will replace the Act of 16 March 2001 on the Government Protection Office. At the outset, a few words explain why I am submitting this draft, a government project to the High House. Well, when I became Minister of Interior and Administration 2 years ago, I found this service - the Office for Government Protection - in bad condition. Officers have always been a value in this service. Here I stress the professionalism, preparation, involvement of government protection officers in daily service and their self-sacrifice. This is the value that was, is and will be. On the other hand, when an audit of this service was carried out, it showed many years of negligence, even dramatic underfunding of the Office for Government Protection. The effects of these negligence have increased over the years. The answer of the Law and Justice Government was a programme to modernise uniformed services, which is also covered by the Office for Government Protection, and thus to allocate additional money to three levels: firstly, to modern equipment, secondly, to infrastructure and thirdly to increases for officers. Last year two important events took place in Poland, i.e. NATO and World Youth Days Summit. The Office of Government Protection was involved in the preparation and safe conduct of these events. Here, indeed, once again, I would like to emphasise the professionalism, commitment and dedication of the officers. These two events caused us to present government presentations only this year. We are responsible for what concerns security. Therefore, we are only presenting the project to you now and not last year. I was talking about this collapse, about the dramatic underfunding of the government security office. The symbol of all this negative that was happening at the Government Protection Office is the figure of his boss, today the policy of the Civic Platform, a man who did not suffer any consequences for negligence concerning the failure to prepare the visit of the President of the Republic of Poland. Professor Lech Kaczyński in Smolensk on 10 April 2010 More, the former head of the Office for Government Protection at the hands of former President Komorowski received a general promotion after this tragedy, after this dramatic event, which by the National Assembly was regarded as the greatest tragedy after World War II. Today we can hear that this former head of the BOR, the Civic Platform's politician, focuses his political commitment on restoring the privileges of the esbeks. That's the symbol of a man who's been at the head of the government's security office for many years. It's a symbol of all the bad things that happened at the government security office. High Izbo! As I said, the scale of negligence and omissions at the Government Protection Office, which was revealed by the audit carried out in December 2015, concerns both the inadequate preparation of the formation for contemporary threats and the dramatic underfinancing of the formation budget or the lack of a concept of modernising the existing organisational structure. All this justifies the need for a profound change in the legal situation in force in this regard. As a result, we considered it desirable to thoroughly modify the functioning of the service in terms of organisation and law, leading to the creation of a completely new quality protective formation. The establishment of a new formation will, firstly, allow for an increase in the standard of implementation of protection and prevention measures, secondly, a precise definition of the tasks of the formation and the adjustment of powers to them, thirdly, the creation of a new model of service conduct, fourthly, the use of new means to verify the suitability of candidates for service and the verification of officers to occupy certain posts, fourthly, the creation of a new incentive system. The creation of a new service will also contribute to the creation of staff free from assigning them negative assessments of the operation of the BOR in its current form and will allow for a fair assessment of the activities of the service. The Law on a new protective formation - the State Protection Service is a response to the needs of the practice of protective measures and, above all, will ensure the effectiveness and immediateness of the formation responsible for the protection of persons and facilities of key importance for the functioning of the State. It will also help to clarify and clarify the rules by clarifying a number of interpretation doubts raised during the almost 16-year period of application of the Government Protection Office Act. Changing threats to the safety of persons and facilities of key importance for the functioning of the State, including terrorist threats, require adaptation to them both of the protective tactics and methods of carrying out exploratory actions. This results in the need to modify the existing scope of powers and the way in which the protective formation operates, including the granting of its right to perform operational and exploratory activities in order to obtain information on the risks relating to protected persons and facilities, and the prevention of offences that pose a direct threat to the safety of those persons and facilities. Changes also require a way of organising a service, the new structure of which should be adapted to the current risks. Security of the protected requires the introduction of new rules for recruitment into the service, among others. by enabling the head of the new formation responsible for its proper functioning to verify applicants for admission to service by subjecting them to psychophysiological examinations. High Seym! With regard to the protection of persons and objects so far implemented, the service pragmatism of the new formation fundamentally corrects the tasks of the BOR and extends the catalogue of powers enabling them to be implemented. This will also strengthen the position of the service and its chief, the commander of the State Security Service. The new shape of the task was aimed at ensuring absolute security for a specific circle of people and objects serving them. A new protective formation will also be added a new task of identifying and preventing certain types of crime against protected persons. This task is part of the intended extension of competences to strengthen the comprehensive dimension of the security formation by granting a new protective formation the right to take operational and exploratory action. The new formation will be equipped with the competence to carry out operational and exploratory activities in forms defined in accordance with the tasks to obtain information on the risks relating to protected persons and facilities, as well as the prevention of criminal offences constituting a direct threat to the safety of those persons and facilities. In the current law governing the operation of the BOR, this service has been entitled to carry out preventive activities, although partly close to operational and research activities, but not sufficient from the perspective of the specifics of the current safety risks and the under-defined by law. The extension of the powers of the new formation will benefit the effectiveness of its activities. It will cease to be dependent solely on information obtained from other services and will gain some degree of independence. In the context of today's security threats, it is impossible to imagine fully effective measures to ensure the safety of persons and protected facilities without the possibility of performing operational and reconnaissance activities. This solution will not only increase the ability of the Service to obtain information that is essential for the security of protected persons and facilities on its own, but will, at the same time, extend the possibilities for obtaining information obtained through the conduct of operational and exploratory activities by other services for which the Government Protection Office has so far not been an equivalent partner due to limited competence. The primary area in which surgical and cognitive activities will be performed will be to ensure the safety of persons and protected facilities. Operational control was also allowed in the case of offences committed by officials and employees of the State Protection Service in connection with the performance of their duties. I would like to stress that State Protection Officers in the field of operational and exploratory activities will be subject to identical formal requirements and control mechanisms, such as representatives of other services with such powers, including judicial review. This solution therefore meets the Polish constitutional standard, the requirement to provide independent authorities with control and supervisory instruments. In relation to the previous tasks of the BOR, the range of facilities under the protection of the new formation will be extended. The protection will be subject not only to facilities serving the President of the Republic of Poland, the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, but also to certain seats of other members of the Council of Ministers indicated in the decision of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, excluding the premises of the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Justice. This will create a system of security for government facilities guaranteeing the highest standard of protection, replacing often illusory services in this area of private entities. These solutions will require an increase in the status of permanent formation, as well as an improvement in the training of its officers. In view of the appropriateness of focusing the security formation's activities on the protection of the most important people in the country and the facilities they serve in the country, the project provides that, as a rule, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be responsible for the protection of foreign offices of the Republic of Poland located at the place of stationing of Polish military quotas and the protection of diplomatic and consulary staff of these institutions will be responsible for the protection of the military Zandarmery. The previous practice of the BOR has shown that it is too small a formation which does not have sufficient forces and means for the full effective protection of these facilities. However, bearing in mind that the protection of foreign offices by the Military Gendarmerie will be limited to the places of stationing Polish military quotas, it is proposed to introduce an additional form of protection of foreign offices applicable in special situations from the perspective of state security. The President of the Council of Ministers, in cases justified by security reasons, with respect to the protection of classified information, will be able to decide on the protection of selected foreign offices of the Republic of Poland by the State Protection Service if the protection of foreign offices is otherwise proven or may not be sufficient. The decision will be taken at the request of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs after obtaining the opinion of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, taking into account the forces and means at the disposal of the State Protection Service, the risk assessment of these facilities and the possible scope and means of ensuring protection. Also in the case of the task of protecting objects and equipment of particular importance and ensuring their functioning, the practice has shown that the Government Protection Office is too small a formation without sufficient forces and means for the fully effective protection of these objects and devices. The implementation of this task by the Government Protection Office is particularly difficult also because it is not only limited to ensuring protection but also ensures its functioning, which in turn exceeds the financial and organisational capacity of the formations. This task was taken over by means of the solutions laid down in the Act of 16 March 2001 on the Office for Government Protection from the then liquidated Nadwiślanski Military Units. It is also impossible to use these facilities in connection with the implementation of the statutory activities of the formation, as their use must be linked to the field of defence. Thus, these objects cannot be used e.g. to evacuate protected persons in the event of an emergency. With this in mind, the draft law establishes the acquisition of this task by the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army. In addition, the draft Law on the State Protection Service defines a circle of protected persons who are part of a delegation of foreign countries residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland in relation to those listed in the Act on the Office for Government Protection. The principle of reciprocity was followed in this respect. The protection shall be covered by delegations consisting of persons with the status of head of state, the head of government and their alternates, the President of Parliament or the Chamber of Parliament or the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The procedure for determining the scope of protection of individuals protected by the new formation will also be improved. The decision to determine the scope of the protective measures to be taken against persons covered by the State Protection Service by law or on the basis of a separate decision of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs will be taken by the Head of the State Protection Service, informing the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. In the current legal situation, it is the Home Affairs Minister who decides on the scope of protection, while the Chief of the Office for Government Protection has the widest knowledge of potential threats and ways of countering them. The proposed amendment will improve the implementation of safeguard measures. Depending on the circumstances and needs, the Head of the State Protection Service will be able to immediately correct the scope of protection in the place of a significantly more extensive formal road with the participation of the Minister. On the other hand, the scope of the protection of the premises will be defined by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs after obtaining the opinion of the Head of State Protection Service, taking into account the risk assessment of these facilities. In the case of objects serving the President of the Republic of Poland and the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall decide in agreement with the Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland and the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers respectively. High Seym! The project also complements the long-term gap in the rules governing the functioning of the protective formation relating to the possibility of temporary withdrawal of protected persons from their protection, excluding measures to obtain information on direct threats to protected persons from whom the protective formation never ceases. It was also considered appropriate to grant the State Protection Service the right to benefit from other forms of assistance. In the event of a threat to the performance of security tasks, where the forces of the State Security Service prove insufficient or likely to prove insufficient, as well as in the event of a threat to the performance of security tasks in the territory of the Republic of Poland of foreign States delegations and other persons protected for the benefit of the State, it will be possible to provide assistance by soldiers of the Military Gendarmerie - on the basis of an order of the President of the Council of Ministers issued at the request of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, and police officers or Border Guard - on the basis of an order of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In order to ensure the safety of persons and protected facilities, it is necessary to build a strong position of the head of the service and of the formation itself, in addition to giving a new shape to the tasks of this service, which is directly linked to the improvement of the standard of protection. This will be done by providing the Chief of State Protection with the status of central government administration. Thus, it will be able to issue, on the basis of the authorisation provided for in the Act, regulations governing protection issues so far falling within the minister's competence, which will speed up and improve the decision-making process. Currently, similar categories of cases in other departments are governed by their bosses. At the same time, attention should be paid to the fact that all the heads of services that have been closely co-operating with the BOR so far are central government administrations and that the change will therefore contribute to a balance in this respect. In addition to the provision laying down the obligation of public entities to ensure the necessary conditions for the performance of their statutory tasks by the State Protection Service, the project introduces a standard imposing on protected persons and management or administrative bodies protected by the structures the obligation to promptly communicate to the State Protection Service any information affecting the safety of protected persons and facilities as well as to comply with the safety recommendations of protected persons and facilities issued by the State Protection Service. The practice of protective measures shows that the existence of such an obligation is necessary in order to illustrate the obligation which also rests on those covered by the protection and therefore the resulting powers of formation. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the protective measures taken, close cooperation between the operators indicated above is necessary. High Seym! The proposed law also provides for a change in the provisions in force in the BOR concerning salaries and allowances. In order to simplify the rules in place of several types of additives in the Government Protection Office, a single supplement will be introduced - so-called. Special allowance of at least 1% basic salary, but not more than 50% That paycheck. The amount of the special allowance will depend on the degree of difficulty, complexity and manner of carrying out the tasks performed by the officer, his professional qualifications, the effects of his work and the professional opinion preceding the determination of the special allowance. In addition, the amount of the special allowance of an officer who has obtained a service opinion with a general good or exemplary assessment shall not be less than 5%. basic salary. This solution will be flexible in order to adapt the amount of allowances to the type and mode of the tasks carried out on an ongoing basis, while ensuring a motivating dimension. Thus, an officer of the State Protection Service will be motivated, within the framework of the performance of his duties, to carry them out effectively and to translate them into a special allowance. It should be noted that the design of this solution is similar to that of the Central Anti-corruption Office officers. The provisions contained in the project also complement the gap in the rules on the transfer of officers between services, allowing for the acquisition into the service of new formations which are predisposed to its performance as police officers, Border Guard, State Fire Department, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Intelligence Service, Military Counterintelligence Service, Prison Service, Customs and Treasury Service and Central Anti-corruption Office. The project also provides for provisions obliging all officers to make declarations of property. This will ensure the transparency of the formation and fits into the broad concept of anti-corruption prevention. The draft law also assumes that the heads of organisational cells of the State Protection Service will cooperate with the inspector of internal surveillance, whose appointment, as you know, is underway in the framework of a separate draft law. It also clarifies the rules relating to the disciplinary responsibility of the State Protection Service officers, in line with other services, with the aim of introducing appropriate rigors in terms of their tasks. I would like to stress that, in relation to officials of the Government Protection Office who will become State Protection Officers, it is intended to retain their existing powers, in particular housing rights. At the same time, the bill slightly modifies the solutions in the Act on the Office for the Protection of the Government concerning the powers and principles of the Marshal's Guard. High Seym! Increased tasks and powers require an extension of the permanent composition of the new protective formation compared to the current state at the Government Protection Office. By adopting the employment limit provided for by the 2017 Budget Act, the Government Protection Office has funds for the employment of more than 2200 officers and 300 employees. The tasks of protecting new premises which are the seat of the Council of Ministers, undertaking operational and exploratory activities or wider involvement in administrative proceedings determine an increase in the personal composition of the emerging formation by around 800 officers. Thus, the actual number of formation posts would reach around 3000 officers and 300 staff, which is planned by the end of 2022. It must be stressed that the scope of the task of protecting the premises of the members of the Council of Ministers would depend on the capacity to absorb new staff. Analyzing the potential of the Government Protection Office, i.e. the number of candidates applying for admission to service, the number of candidates who have passed all stages of the qualification procedure, organisational opportunities, including very important training, we assume that the new formation will be ready to complete this task after 5 years. This period is also determined by the need to adapt the facilities to be protected by the new formation. Given that the vast majority of them do not have the required standard of security, it will also be necessary to change the structure of the buildings. It is necessary to provide the on-call facilities and their equipment, to prepare the deposit of weapons, the social and sanitary facilities or to install protective equipment. Getting the right permits and making the right adjustments, adaptation will require not only time, but also, of course, financial expenditure. The increase in employment in the new protective formation will of course generate costs for the state budget, however, it is necessary to create a service that will be able to adequately ensure the protection of the most important people and facilities in the country. High Seym! Finally, I would like you to take into consideration the assessment of the solutions presented in the draft, but I would like you to take into account that this is the first comprehensive reform of the protective formation since 2001, which will guarantee practical tools for effective protection of the most important people and objects in the country, commensurate with current challenges and threats to their security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It is a government submission, a law on the State Protection Service. Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, pointed out at the beginning of his speech that it was one of many laws, one of many actions aimed at improving the safety of Poles, aimed at reforming the entire security system in Poland, and so it is. This is another submission. Let me remind you that we have already had a whole series of amendments, including. Government draft law on anti-terrorist activities and amending certain other laws. We also had a bill to amend the Pension Supply Act. We also had a parliamentary bill to amend the Police Act and some other laws. The whole group of amendments has one goal: to improve the safety of Poles in the context of what is happening today in the world and especially in Europe. There is virtually no week, there is no day for us not to be informed about various terrorist incidents, with violent attacks on random citizens of European countries. Upgrade the police, rebuild the stations, upgrade the fire department. The whole group of these amendments, which were headed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration or the Sejm Board of Administration and Internal Affairs, is noted by Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year we had an unprecedented CBOS study on security in Poland. Well 80% of Poles think that Poland is a safe country. This is an absolutely historic result. More importantly, we have dealt with an jumping, because by as much as 14%, the increase in positive answers to the question whether Poland is a safe country, since the previous survey in the beginning of 2015. Similarly, Poles indicate that they feel safe in their immediate vicinity. And here too, these are unprecedented high scores. However, interestingly, from 48% to 62% the percentage of those Poles who do not fear that they may fall victim to the crime has increased. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the best assessments that can be gathered by the services and, above all, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which has undertaken a thorough modernisation of the services. Ladies and gentlemen! The current law on the Office for Government Protection was created at the turn of 2000 and 2001 due to the need to combine the tasks assumed by two military formations to date: the Office for Government Protection and the Vistula Military Units. Both were tasked with police tasks, since the military has other objectives and other tasks. As a result, they were combined under one name: BOR. As for the name, I have big doubts, because we know that the Government Security Office does not protect the government, but its tasks are much broader. Mr. Minister spoke extensively about the problems of this matter. I share the comments made by the Minister. Unfortunately, the tasks of this formation, as has already been mentioned here, do not nowadays conform to the widely understood tasks of police. That's why we have to submit the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. It is high time we took up the legislative work related to the new Law on the State Protection Service. Ladies and gentlemen! A well-known proverb should be gone by now: a wise Pole after injury. We should respond to and respond effectively to these threats, which are very close, just beyond the borders of our country. We are convinced that the new State Protection Service, which will deal comprehensively with the security of citizens in the country at the head of which the commandant will be appointed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As in the case of the state police, he will carry out these tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Biernacki, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was my honor to present the position of the Civic Platform club in relation to the government draft law on the State Protection Service, print no. 1916. This government project fits perfectly into political philosophy, maybe philosophy is too big a word, into the historical philosophy of Law and Justice. This philosophy assumes that all institutions that have been set up by the PiS are good, and those institutions that were not set up by the PiS are bad. Please note that there will be no changes in the CBA, there will be no changes in the SWW, there will be no changes in the SKW. I guarantee you that there will soon be laws that will abolish the Internal Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency. There must be a whole new order. Mr Czartoryski, Mr Czartoryski, if it is so good, why are you disassembling this system? That doesn't add up to your reaction. The Office for the Protection of the Government is being liquidated, and we need to be aware of that, an institution that has functioned well in a democratic Polish country. She was a military unit first. In 2001, it became a police formation. Officers of the Government Protection Office were trained at the very beginning, it is worth remembering this, by the best experts from our partner countries, including among others. by Secret Service. The drivers had an American school, a very good school. And you got rid of most of the experts and experts. Shortly, because time doesn't allow. Your relationship with the BOR wasn't just caused by a case, a Smolensk disaster, a Smolensk tragedy that we all survived. Please note that it has always been negative. There was a constans. Years 2005-2007. Minister, the question is, how many BOR bosses were there? Three or even four if we count Mr. Braggawa. How many, Minister, are the chiefs of the BOR now, how many were in your two-year term? Three, and if we count Mr. Klimek, head of BOR, four. It's a sign of your seriousness in dealing with the problem and talking about who's devastated you. Because the state is clearly devastated by you. And you can't run away from that. And there's one thing you have to remember. BOR officers served Poland and Poland, and abroad. They died in Iraq and in Smolensk. Remember that, too. You could have met them in Afghanistan on missions. Those Members who were there know them and know them there. So we have to give them that memory, too. The government project removes the Government Protection Office and creates a new service called the State Protection Service. This new formation, which is probably modelled on the Russian Federal Security Service, is to have, unlike the current BOR, the power to carry out operational and exploratory activities like special services and to apply widely understood operational control, especially wiretapping and surveillance. If the SOP does not have technical capabilities, in accordance with Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, I quote, in the case of technical or organisational restrictions, the SOP commander may request, after obtaining the order of the District Court in Warsaw to order operational control, that it be carried out in whole or in part by the ABW, the Police or the Border Guard. Already at the stage of the GIODO interministerial arrangements and the Supreme Court clearly state that these records are de facto unlawful. This is actually circumvention of judicial review when someone else requests permission for operational control and someone else actually applies it. It is a good thing that you are, Minister, because the question arises - it is worth that you should immediately make this point - that perhaps it is about creating a legal basis for the actual surveillance of the opposition by the special forces, which will formally do so in the so-called so-called. representation and for the benefit of the State Protection Service. On the other hand, the catalogue of persons who may be covered by these operations is virtually unlimited, because in Article. Paragraph 56 Point 2 (1) enigmatically refers to the possibility of surveillance of other persons, in so far as this serves to carry out the tasks of the new service, i.e. anyone who, in the opinion of the management of the MMA, is potentially threatening power. Knowing the Minister's original opinions on us, we need to know whether we should be afraid or not. Or not. Also answer me, Minister - time does not allow you to continue this argument - for which you need informants among journalists in this new service, and it is not with the agreement of the Prime Minister, but with the agreement of the Minister, because it is written so. The military services don't have that kind of approval, but the Prime Minister has to agree. Why do you need informants among journalists? On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the rejection of the project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u46	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak will speak on behalf of the Kukiz team15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present an opinion on the draft law on the State Protection Service. The proposed solutions are due to a changing commitment and the need to meet this in terms of ensuring the safety of people and the key objects for the functioning of the State. The changes concern, among others: the existing scope of powers, as well as the way the State Protection Service acted, previously the BOR. The explanatory memorandum also indicates an audit carried out in 2015 at the Office for Government Protection, which showed a significant scale of negligence and omissions, including: underfunding of this formation, as well as lack of proper implementation of tasks in the field of protection of Polish diplomatic representations, consulates and other representations outside Poland. Pointing to the scale of these omissions, the designers say that the bill proposes a new protective formation to live, which would lead to an increase in the standard of protection measures in the above mentioned areas. It assumes strengthening the position of the service and its chief, providing it with the status of a central government authority, as the Minister said, adding new tasks related to the identification and prevention of various types of crime. These are the things that were also reported here as doubts about the use of various forms of information acquisition and surveillance. The BOR had to be based on information from other services. Here we have the right to undertake operations and research activities and their financing from the operational fund. In addition, there is an increase in the position of office compared to the current situation in the BOR and the verification of the officers. Here we have various forms of verification, it is indicated even verification using a polygraph, using the help of other formations, among others. Military police, police, Border Guard. Officers of the new service will be required to make declarations of property. State Protection Officers will have the right to issue instructions to those who pose a threat, e.g. the order to leave the place, stop the vehicle, remove the vehicle, etc., legit, carry out personal checks, including baggage, carry out checks on persons entering protected facilities, include persons presenting a direct risk of life or health in order to communicate them to the relevant services, request assistance from public authorities, observe and record, by technical means, the picture of events in public places, and, in the case of operational and diagnostic and administrative activities, record the sound associated with these events. I will not repeat the details here. Ladies and gentlemen! They're divided sentences here. Some of you say that everything was fine in the BOR, but the facts show that this service was not fully functioning properly, because we have actually had many examples in recent years when the BOR was criticized. Even the Civic Platform in this term has repeatedly said that the actions of the BOR... [[Three bosses.]] I agree with this that there is a dynamic of change in the position of chief, but let us not say that everything was working well, because at the committee meeting we discussed many times the issues in which we referred to whether the BOR was functioning properly or properly securing the most important people in the country, and we had doubts about it. Of course, it would seem that these changes in powers could be made, increased funding, increased number of posts, extended scope of powers introduced by an amendment to the BOR Act, maintaining that name. In general, I am not particularly attached to the names of the services in a mental sense, I am indifferent to what they are called, it is important that they actually meet the conditions or tasks to which they are called. And if it is necessary to change the name and change the law, because as we have also heard, it is easier to create a new law than to patch what is already quite strongly patched in different ways, we are able to take note of it, although I think there is also one legal loophole here, which will allow us to make personal changes, because when one service is removed and another service is called, it is quite easy to replace the staff. Of course, I also believe that the right to form staff in such key services is, to some extent, the law of the rulers, and I hope that this will be carried out in a civilised way. The bill is very extensive, it has more than 660 pages, so let me be honest, I've been through it, but at the moment I'm not able to analyse it very thoroughly, critically. Therefore, as a Kukiz club15, we believe that we should refer it to further work on the committee. Then we will think about individual solutions, whether they're all right for us, or whether we want to change things. In this situation, we will also try to convince the government side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law on the State Protection Service, print no. 1916. High Izbo! The government, presenting this draft law, stated that it concerns the establishment of a new protective formation, the State Protection Service, which is to assume responsibility for the protection of persons and facilities of key importance for the functioning of the State. In fact, the Act contains provisions that will de facto end the Office for Government Protection and replace it with the newly established formation. I'm not going to dig into the justification of the project in detail, but there's a black-painted picture of the BOR that's supposed to be an audit. Minister Zieliński, who, according to the memo, is responsible for this project, outlined the picture of the dysfunctional unit, which was forever underinvested and disregulated by staff. And I have to say that such a black painting gives you the creeps, indeed, but it also raises questions. First of all, since Minister Błaszczak knew that BOR was in such a dramatic situation, why didn't significant individuals be financed in 2016 and 2017 in order to prevent these negative phenomena? You can't talk about the modernisation program here, because that's not what this is about. Gentlemen, you've known for two years that there's drama, and you haven't led to an increase in funding in this area? It's your responsibility. Secondly, someone is responsible for this condition. I ask the Minister: Why didn't Minister Błaszczak make any proposals on this matter, I don't know, to the prosecutor's office, to the Court of State? After all, this was because decisions were made. In your explanatory statement, you're making very serious allegations. Then why didn't you do anything about it? For two years, Minister, you risked the lives and health of the most important people in the country, as evidenced by the accidents of government limousines, broken tires and finally seicinto, which together, in agreement with the tree, stood in the way of the limousine of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Something is wrong here that suddenly, after two years, during which nothing was done about changes in the financing and organisation of the BOR, the Minister presents a project for a completely new service. It shouldn't be like this, it shouldn't be like this. You can see, Minister, that in the field of service management there is simply a lack of competence in the ministry. I will move on to discussing the project itself and here I will also make some general comments. We have five minutes, which, of course, is not enough. Competence. We have to be clear: Ministers, you are building another special service. The project submitted shows that this new, next, special service of ministers Błaszczak and Zieliński will have the power to apply operational control to the citizens - well, unbelievable - reaching for telecommunications, postal and Internet data of Poles. True, there is some illusory judicial review, but after all, the Supreme Court, GIODO, clearly stated that the powers, the tasks of the new service do not require such a broad catalogue of powers. In addition, the service will in principle have unlimited access to all databases run by public authorities, i.e. again powers that contrast strongly with the scope of tasks in the area of protection of the most important people and buildings in the country. Interestingly, in the field of secret journalistic collaborators, the project omits the Prime Minister and transfers his decision to the Minister's level. Minister, what are you trying to hide from the Prime Minister? Minister, almost all over the world, it works so that the protection of people and buildings obtains the necessary information from other services. So I have a question: Do you want to tell us in this project that this will not work in Poland? The Minister did not say anything in his speech to justify the appointment of a new service. Reforms are needed - we agree on that. Plus, that name, really... Mr Czartoryski, this is not the way to present the position of the club. You didn't say anything about this project, you talked about the safety of Poles, as if the BOR or this new service were supposed to be the police. This isn't the police, she's doing completely different jobs. I do not know if Mr President has even read the project. Personal changes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the Cleansing Act in these services. Thanks to this law, you will be able to release all officers who have so far protected the most important persons in the country. This is another personnel bill. Too many contrasts and doubts in this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern application for rejection of the draft law on the State Protection Service, print no. 1916. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u50	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When discussing the Government's submission of the State Protection Service in print No 1916, it should be acknowledged that substantially evolving threats to the safety of persons and facilities of key importance for the functioning of the State, including terrorist threats, require adaptation to their implementation of appropriate methods, protective measures and exploratory actions. This will result in the need to change the existing scope of the powers of officers, including the granting of the right to perform operational and exploratory activities to that authority. According to the justification of the bill, the current Government Protection Office has failed to meet its tasks over many years, has been underinvested and the concept of modernising this organisational structure has been found to be lacking. In the face of these allegations of high quality weight, the question is: Since when does the Act on Government Protection come into force? In the period from 16 March 2001 to now, have governments in the Republic of Poland held today's ongoing parliamentary opposition, and the current governing party had the slightest influence on at least an indication over these years of the enormous scale of negligence and omissions, the dramatic underfunding of the budget of this formation, including and the lack of a concept of modernising the existing organisational structure? In the period since 2001, have present and then governments, when building the state budget, not seen the scale of the needs, and it is the institution which they had to use for their own services? You've been in charge for two years, and you haven't had time to fix those neglects yet, and now you're pouring crocodile tears? It's time to put an end to false propaganda. Two years was enough time to change everything. Today you cover your inability with strong words. If any omissions are found, whether the body is officially wound up, or if corrective measures are introduced, e.g. by increasing the number of casts, by increasing the salary, by performing internal reconstruction, and even if necessary by purchasing, together with the changing situation, modern weapons or means of communication? How, then, will new and modernly equipped facilities be found for the new formation? Already its own name: The State Protection Service, when it is read literally and which is derived from the phonetic sound, means to the average citizen that it will be protected by this service - to which ordinary citizens paid attention just yesterday - because no name of its own law can be confused, i.e.. that it must correspond to the actual tasks in question. While it can be accepted that there is a need for a sufficiently more permanent formation responsible for the protection of the most important persons in the State or of the most important objects listed in the draft law, it does not, in any case, concern the protection of all citizens and the whole state. That's what other servants are for. It is unacceptable to give a new formation of investigative powers. Creating a new formation and providing its officers with the opportunity to use the so-called. legalization documents, a new special service is being created, whose tasks will have nothing to do with protecting the most important people in the country. In the current experience, it must be concluded that the new special service will contribute to the unhealthy rivalry of the existing special services, and currently responsible for the real security of the State to the ministers will create an additional instrument to fight for influence in the special services. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Polish parliamentarian is to serve the security of the Republic of Poland with all his might, to constitute a law that strengthens his country, but in no case must he allow him to lose sight of matters, including the protection of ordinary, ordinary citizens. The Polish People's Party expresses the view that the country currently operates as much as a police special service, hence we believe that the current BOR formation can, and even needs to be implemented quickly, these corrective measures, but absolutely without the need to create a new institution [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a new service. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u52	Thank you. Now on behalf of the European Union of Democrats, Mr Stanisław Huskowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Union of European Democrats on this Law on State Protection. Minister! I listened carefully to your speech and your concerns were mixed with your astonishment. The fear that this is another element of the construction of the police state. This is shown by elements such as the increase in staffing, the number of officers by 800, or almost 50% in relation to the current situation. Why do you need an army like that? Equipped with operational powers - said Marek Biernacki. Why operational powers for the next service, this time the services under the Minister of Home Affairs? Why give the SOP chief another service the status of a central government authority? You are raising the rank of service and formation, clearly showing what is important in the country. It's the service that's important. And the amazement was that you chose the path of creating a new service in place of the BOR to get rid of this story and responsibility for accidents caused by limo drivers, drivers from the BOR, although not because of the drivers themselves probably, but more because of the dispatchers who expected to move from one end of the country to another within an hour. Minister, what are you afraid of creating such a formation? Are you afraid of the opposition? How about the journalists you want to recruit? Are you even afraid of Poles? You're scared, and that's why you're scared of this army. Mr Czartoryski said - and he actually caught Mr Suchoń is already in front of me - because the reason is the need to improve the safety of Poles. What kind of security Poles? This is not a formation that protects Poles. In fact, it protects only some Poles, those who sit in the government - the PiS government. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The word "honest" is pressed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u54	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. 16 ladies and gentlemen have joined the question. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, asks the question first.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u55	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I have a question: What is the real reason for this new special service to be set up, which will have the powers to duplicate the powers conferred on other services in terms of operational control? There is a real threat to citizens that this new special service will reach for telecommunications, postal, online data without the functioning of a system of real control, where the independent authority of the state, the court, evaluates the appropriateness of reaching for this data. And another question. The bill assumes that between 2017 and 2027 in the framework of the State budget, expenditure on the new service should be further increased by about PLN 1300 million and that it is intended to be used mainly for the employment of 790 new officers. I ask the question: Is it appropriate to increase the personal status of this new service in the context of the transfer of certain tasks of the new service [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Military Police Department and the relief of the new service from the performance of tasks not related to the operation of the State Security Service? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u56	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Wilk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Having read the conclusions of the December 2015 audit and the justification for the draft law, my question is actually rhetorical: Why is the Government Protection Office being modernised so late? Why? There was a shortage of equipment, a shortage of people. These 800 jobs were written down, but it was never done. There was a lack of funding and a lack of powers, and the government's security office didn't have them. Therefore, despite the good work of these private employees of the Government Protection Office, it seems necessary to modernise these services as soon as possible and to establish a State Protection Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u58	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The state isn't just power. The country is a territory and a nation. Will the State Protection Service, therefore, legally ensure security at the level of all elements of the State or merely power? So far it has been clear: the BOR is a formation that protects the government and the army defends the territory. A citizen in this country is treated as a necessary evil, and only his wallet is drained. How much will it cost to set up a State Security Service? Because the taxpayer already bears the expenses associated with the modernization of the BOR. I would like to remind you that between 2017 and 2020 almost PLN 170 million is spent from the budget for the purchase of more than 90 representative cars, armored, protective, and new generation equipment for BOR. The new service will be given the opportunity to work in an operational and cognitive manner, among others. with regard to tracking [[♪ The bell ♪]] and secret eavesdropping, as well as checking correspondence and checking the contents of consignments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u60	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u61	Is this about the next step in surveillance of Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u62	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u63	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! New doesn't always mean better. In this connection, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister a question: Why should we be able to monitor another service, why should we be able to wear wiretap, operational control? And one more question: How many officers will lose their jobs, what is the expected number? At the same time, I would like to ask who will train the new ones? If you wish, gentlemen, to bring in 800 officers to serve well, they must be well trained. However, this is a large number, so I would ask you to present a training plan. This may be a written reply if you are not ready now. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask why such a service is possible to obtain information from journalists and does this not mean that every minister is now looking to have his special service to fight one against the other. Maybe it's okay. They'll end up on their own. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u64	The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law, as has already been mentioned here, fits perfectly into what you have been doing for the past two years: destroying the foundations and achievements of the past 28 years. Undoubtedly, if there are any comments on the functioning of the Government Protection Office, then some restructuring needs to be carried out, more expenditure. But you, Minister, in your explanatory statement, did not address anything about issues that are very important, namely why, what were the reasons for a very radical departure from service in 2016. This trial is still taking place today. After all, many of the problems of the last two years have been because of this, and it has been caused by the departures of great service officers. This bill you're really trying to cover up all the failures of the government of law and justice, the culmination of which is undoubtedly... After all, the decision to amend this law and to change this service, its name, [[♪ The bell ♪]] was followed by an accident involving the column by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u66	The question is asked by Marek Biernacki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is short. Minister, it has not been too long since I have made two interpellations with a very specific question of how many people are protected by the Government Security Office. I've been told that I'm not a qualified person so I can get that information, that answer. There was a need-to-know principle. I'm sorry, but I was the one who wrote the bill in my time. This is a discrediting response from the Ministry, because it is possible to respond through a secret law firm, it can be answered in a different way. If you take it literally that you're right, you should start investigating all journalists who take pictures of BOR officers with stamps. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u68	The question is asked by Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are all aware of the changing risks and the need to adapt to the new situation. However, Minister, how do you intend to build the ethos of the new service by notoriously criticizing the BOR? Mr Czartoryski also told us here about the increasing sense of security of Poles. Mr President, why aren't you talking about the fact that Poles' interest in police work has fallen dramatically? Now we're all starting to worry about whether or not there's gonna be someone working for the police. We know that there were as many as 15 or 20 people in the police station before that. The key words for this new law can be effectively motivated. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, effectively motivated to ensure this formation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u70	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that a new protective formation will be given a new task of identifying and preventing certain types of crimes directed against protected persons and crimes against the security of protected facilities. Minister, tell me exactly what kind of crime this is about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u72	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Rząsa, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are removing God's spirit from the vendetta for Smolensk. You're about to fire a lot of experienced, competent officers with tremendous operational knowledge. You will be deprived of the work of people who, for years, day and night, in different weather conditions, in different terrain conditions, risked their lives and health effectively guarded the safety of the most important people in the country and foreign guests. Those of them who do not receive an offer to work at the SOP do not give a chance to appeal this decision. This shameful, arrogant and brutal scheme of throwing people on the pavement is already known by Polish customs officers, tax officials and government agencies. For those of you who will be in this service, you will take paid overtime, financial allowances, paid leave and reduced checks. You're expanding the directory of protected objects. Who are you afraid of? Sovereign? You don't have enough fences, fences, sheets and railings? You give the persons listed in the protected catalogue the right to opt out of protection. You're afraid the SOP officers will see that the president of the country [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's secretly meeting with an envoy?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u75	Finally, in the article. 192... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u76	The question will be asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska from the Civic Platform Club. And I welcome you cordially located in the gallery of students and carers from the Public Primary School No. 14 im. John Paul II of Radom. [[Applause]] Welcome. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In the justification for this draft, a number of paragraphs are devoted to the tragic financial situation of the Government Protection Office. It turns out that everything that has affected quality, rather the lack of quality in everyday operation, is an ubiquitous and long-term lack of funding. In order to prevent this, the project proposes to turn the whole structure upside down and, of course, to create a new one, whose creation will take many times more resources than it would probably need to ensure the peace, security and stability of the Government Protection Office. And we know very well that the most important are the nuances that appear during such projects. This is also the case with this project. Because new tasks are added to identify and prevent the various types of crime already mentioned, and the powers of this formation are being broadened. There's a sinister record that says you're doing surgery and reconnaissance, and we all know exactly what's inside it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to ask the Minister. Please answer us the question of what was the real basis for creating a completely new formation with completely new powers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u78	Thank you. The question is asked by Edward Sulphur, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! With regard to the Office for Government Protection or the new service, a discussion on how to reform this institution, which is responsible for the safety of the most important people in the country, has been held for many years, and particularly in recent years. This is also a matter of the security of our country. We have come to the conclusion - I think it is right - that there should indeed be a new law that, as if it were to regulate completely all issues relating to the protection of the most important people in the country or institutions of that country. In order for this law to function properly for this service to function properly, there is also the issue of training. Therefore, I wanted to ask: What elements, especially those related to training, to attracting people, will be most important here? What will we pay attention to, that it actually arises? a new quality that will make the most important people really [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they feel safe? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u80	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Question: "Why do you want to shroud the Polish society?" Every step of the way, it will serve citizens - if not minister Macierewicz's service, it will be Minister Błaszczak's service or Minister Kaminski's service. Within two days, you will appoint two special forces, and in a moment we will appoint a military unit of the Marshal of the Sejm. Who are you afraid of? I hear the Sovereign loves you. [[Applause]] He's voting for you, he's given you power. And Minister Zieliński is surrounded by BOR officers. What right? You don't have the protection of the BOR. Why don't you answer that question, instead of proposing a new service? Who are you afraid of? Who? [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: Were you on medication today?]] Please? No, I listened to you. You can just go crazy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Insolent.]] [[What kind of statement is this: to piss off Poles?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u82	The question is asked by Mr Czesław Mrozek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After 2 years of PiS government, most institutions and services responsible for the security of our country are in very bad shape or in a mess. We know the damage caused by Antoni Macierewicz in the Police Department, the police capital garrison, the largest garrison. We have the fourth commandant under your rule. Now the chief's on duty. His competence is that he was on duty, never led anything. This is an image of your actions. As far as the BOR is concerned, your inability to carry out tasks has led to your inability to do so. The only way to get out of this situation and cover your own failure and your own inability is to solve this formation. This is an escape from responsibility. You solve this formation to cover your own inability. By the way, you're doing what you like most - wiretaps, recordings. Another special duty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're gonna figure you out of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u84	The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A police state is a country where the services, the special forces, control everything in cooperation with representatives of different backgrounds. You have proposed a law in which article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 allows you to benefit from cooperation, secret cooperation, with publishers, with editors-in-chief, with journalists. This is an assassination attempt on freedom of the press, freedom of the media. This is actually a violation of constitutional norms. And a specific question: In what situations do you see the need to use such secret co-workers? This is an assassination attempt. [[♪ The bell ♪]] constitutional freedom of speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u86	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I have a favor to ask. When the Minister for Constitutional Affairs behaves in a way far removed from modern culture canons, as he just did with Mr Meysztowicz, I ask that the marshal react. [[The voice from the hall: He laughed.]] I have two questions. One, audit. You mention in the statement that the new law is the result of an audit. Where can I get acquainted with this audit? If this is in some way out of the ordinary, I ask Mr Czartoryski very much that the Members of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs should be able to read the audit results, the audit, the content of the audit. Question for a name: Who decided? Was it consulted with linguists or a group of other experts? 'Cause I gotta say, the government security office is the right name, the right one, the right one, the right one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas, as regards this new name, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that it is closer to the satirical programme than to the name of a serious formation in a serious country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u88	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Suchoń pointed out that the Minister was acting inappropriately. I wanted to say that today the Minister gave me priority before entering the Sejm. Thank you very much. Minister! Do you realize that you're about to get caught up in your own legs by setting up another special service? Until now, it seemed that only the Minister of Justice or the Minister of National Defence is creating his special service, and today we see that you are also calling another service in your own department. If you get caught in your own legs, I guarantee you, Minister Zieliński will help you fall over. Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u90	The discussion is closed... Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, the Law and Justice Club, was still in the process of correcting. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u91	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! The absent Mr Huskowski, using my name, suggested that there is a new special service for the protection of law and justice officers. These are of course disgraceful words to all officers of the Government Protection Office, as well as those officers and officers who will work in the State Protection Service. They shouldn't be here. These are only due to the pure malice of the Member, but they offend these officers. Not only do they offend the intentions of the creators of the law, but also extremely offend officers who serve the Polish state as they can, and should not be insulted in such a disgraceful way here. These officers serve the Polish state, all Poles, all those who are indicated for protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of Interior and Administration, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, such a general reflection. I am disappointed by the embarrassingly low level of arguments you have made. [[Because the minute to ask was.]] On the other hand, what can you expect from you? It's very clear. Total opposition. Therefore, you live in a completely different reality, separated from what is happening... [[Minister, did you take anything today?]] ...in the world and among the people, therefore you say uncircumcised things. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u94	Mr... [[You should have reacted the first time, not now.]] Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: But, as I said, what more can you expect from you? Not much more. I'll go back to the beginning of my speech when I presented my bill. I appreciate the commitment, the dedication of government security officers. They've proven many times that they're professional, that they're self-sacrificing, that they're involved. Let me remind you once again: 2016, NATO summit - perfectly secured, said so our partners who participated in this project, the World Youth Days - also perfectly secured. Poland is a safe country, Poland is a guest country. [[What about Obama's visit in 2014?]] This is what they experienced, with such awareness all those who came to meet Pope Francis left Poland. And that, too, is largely due to the Government Protection Office. But that doesn't change the fact that two years ago, when I took office, I found this service in very bad condition - very poor organizational condition, very poor financial condition. Since then, it has indeed been two years, and much has changed in favour of finances in terms of organisational status. But we've come to a certain... We've completed a process. In this legal formula, it is not possible to continue to heal this service, and we want the service, which protects the safety of the most important people in the country, to be able to provide security. Ladies and gentlemen, this is extremely important. In 2010, the State was unable to ensure the security of the head of state, so one might ask: If the state ruled by the PO-PSL coalition at that time was not able to ensure the security of the head of state, could it have been able to ensure the safety of citizens? Since it was unable to secure the President of the Republic, it was not able to provide security for the citizens of our country as well. [[Applause]] And it's quite obvious, it's quite obvious. [[You're full of shit.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about the symbol of that time. This is a civil platform activist today, you, you and your party buddy, yes, this man. This man, who, instead of answering for his negligence, was promoted by President Komorowski, and today will be engaged in restoring pension rights to the Esbeks. Yeah, that's what he's up to. It's a symbol, it's a symbol. This is a symbol of these times, rightly past. [[Voice from the hall: This is Peterowicz, sir.]] [[Peterovich.]] This is the man who today will be engaged in restoring the privileges of the Esbec, which you are also defending. You defend these Esbec privileges. [[Voice from the courtroom: charge him if he has broken the law.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the measure of this crap that has taken place over the years... [[Voice from the hall: What's the vocabulary, Minister?]] ...is that more officers were leaving the government's office than they were coming to the BOR. I'll give you the data. 2013 - 36 new officers and almost 70 have passed away. The situation only changed last year. Why did she change? Probably also because the Government of Law and Justice introduced a programme to modernise uniformed services, that we made sure that the Government Security Office also lifted from financial collapse. Another case concerning the financial collapse of the Government Protection Office - housing equivalent. Officials of the Government Security Bureau have been court-martialed, and they've thought they'd get the benefit they deserve. The list of people waiting on the housing equivalent reached 1600 people - 1600 people - because you were helpless, you were busy with something else. What were you two busy with? Pulling an OLT Express plane at the airport in Gdansk, that was your job, [[Applause]] Or handing over tenements in Warsaw to the law and civil law mob, that was your job. Yeah, you guys did it, and you didn't have time for anything else. You didn't have time or mind at the government security office either, because this isn't a job for you. You're talking about operations. I would like to give examples of other countries where services protect the most important people in the country and have such opportunities: Estonia, Slovakia, Romania, Germany, the Netherlands, Hungary. Yes, these are the countries where the services that protect the most important people in the country have such a right. In addition, both the police and the special forces perform surgical and cognitive activities. The difference is that the special forces carry out analytical and information activities, and such powers will not be exercised by the State Protection Service. Something embarrassing is that one of the Members present, the former Deputy Minister of the Interior, has seen here the powers of investigation and investigation. No, he doesn't have that kind of authority. So either you've confused the rights with the others, or you've read the wrong document that's been submitted. This is embarrassing. [[But reconnaissance gives...]] Such statements merely indicate the level of... [[It's reconnaissance...]] ...your ignorance, and you were Deputy Minister of Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding this plea, the words "survivor" - what is it that you cannot say? You're capable of saying anything. Look at the article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: The State Protection Service may not use secret cooperation in the performance of its tasks. As a rule, it is. As a general rule, he cannot use secret cooperation in the performance of his tasks. Indeed, there is also a provision that says that this is a possibility in a particular situation. This is regulated according to the rules applicable to other services. There's nothing new here. There's nothing new about it. [[No, it's only there with the Prime Minister's permission.]] There's nothing new about it. Isn't it true or with the Prime Minister's permission? You're denying yourself. It's either true, but with the Prime Minister's permission, or it's not. Which answer do you choose? [[I deny what you're saying.]] Which answer do you choose from these two? If that's what you say, then I'm making a public statement... [[No, you're not. You're lying.]] ...that you're a liar. Well, you're just a liar and you manipulate, manipulate, manipulate information. [[Applause]] [[You're trying to manipulate it, and I exposed it.]] And yet, ladies and gentlemen, back to the law in force... [[That's embarrassing. That's embarrassing.]] ...which you don't know, it's you who can only scream. Yes, you're actually very, very talented. You're screaming beautifully. Yes, you're screaming beautifully. [[Nice to meet you, too.]] So in the bill... Madam, you're not at the market, you're in the Seym. Please be gentle and calm. [[Applause]] Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: ...of 16 March 2001 on the Office for the Protection of the Government, the applicable law, is the provision of Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which provides that in the performance of its tasks in particularly justified cases, the BOR may be assisted by persons who are not officers. There you go. Do you know this recipe? So this is the current regulation, this is the presentation which I am presenting to the High House. Oh, maybe one more job information. [[How about an answer?]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about this example from 2013. Do you know what unemployment was like in Poland? If you don't know, check it out. I'll tell you what it is today. Today it's 6.6%. This is very low, historically lowest unemployment. And if we calculate unemployment using the Eurostat indicator, this is 4.6%, as Eurostat says. And yet, despite such low unemployment, the Police aspires almost seven candidates to one place. What does that say? This proves that we are rebuilding the prestige of the service, both the police and the government's office. [[Applause]] We're rebuilding this prestige because he just wasn't there. Why wasn't he there? Because it was the result of your incompetent governments. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of items 17 and 18 of the agenda: 17. First reading of the Commission's draft law on the Marshal's Guard (print 1971). 18. First reading of the Commission's draft law Rules introducing the Marshal's Guard Act (print No 1972). I would like to ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to state the reasons for both draft laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This will be a total justification because both projects are closely linked. High Seym! The draft law on the Marshal's Guard and the draft law on the Marshal's Guard are not projects that are abstracted from the present reality and Polish and European, they are not projects that do not notice the new challenges that are facing us, which have led to legislative changes, often resulting from disasters, from terrorist attacks, from tragic events that have happened in Europe, in almost every European country, and especially in Western European countries. In Poland, too, we respond to everything that is happening in Europe in order to prepare in advance the services of the Polish state for effective response to threats. Ladies and gentlemen! As an example of such spectacular events that concerned Parliament, it is worth recalling what happened in 2016 in 2017. In 2017, in principle, in August 2017, the British Telegraph informed about the secret security test of the London Parliamentary Building, which demonstrated that Members were at risk of terrorist attack, including the situation in which they could become hostages. In March, a terrorist who had previously driven a pedestrian on the Westminster Bridge managed to break into parliament, into the Parliament's courtyard, and to kill a police officer who protected the British Parliament with a knife. Then he was shot by the service that arrived, and they appeared after a while. Ladies and gentlemen! There is virtually no parliament in Europe that would not solve the problem of its own protection by raising competences, improving qualifications, but, above all, giving new powers to officers protecting parliaments. As another example, I would like to point out the German Bundestag. According to the German constitution, the President of the Bundestag exercises the right of the host in the Bundestag building, the law of the house and the police authority. Without its consent, no revision or confiscation may be carried out in the Bundestag. The transfer of the police authority to the Bundestag, to its chairman, means that the area is removed from the police competence normally available to the relevant national authorities. Public security and order in the Bundestag are provided by the Bundestag police. The police are responsible for all the buildings and areas under the administration of the Bundestag and for the buildings and areas temporarily used by the Bundestag. The status of the Bundestag police officers is determined by the Federal Police Act, which regulates, and above all, the status of the Bundestag police officers, as well as the status of federal police officers and criminal police services. The Bundestag police officers are employees of the Bundestag, just the German Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! In many Western European countries this is resolved in various ways, also in accordance with the tradition of European Parliaments. Also in this spirit of reference and tradition, and in the history of the first Republic of Poland, the administrative commission submits this draft law on the Marshal's Guard. Currently, the duties of the Marshal's Guard in the area of the protection of the Sejm and the Senate are laid down in five provisions of the Act of 16 March on the Office for the Protection of the Government, entitled "Protection of the Sejm and the Senate." In our view, the regulation so far is not sufficient mainly because of its fragmented nature. Secondly, the draft law on the Marshal's Guard will regulate in a comprehensive manner the organisation, forms of operation and terms of reference of the Marshal's Guard, the service in this formation, the duties and rights of officers, including their salaries and other cash benefits and the principle of disciplinary liability. The project involves changing the employment status of the Marshal's Guard guards with employees... Currently they are simply workers employed under the law, work, civil workers, just like any other employee employed by Parliament. We propose that this status be changed to official status on the basis of an appointment, as well as the status of other servants. Of course, the current catalogue of tasks of the Marshal's Guard will be extended to include the following tasks: protection at the order of the Marshal of the Sejm of Members and Senators also outside the premises and facilities remaining on the Board of the Sejm Office and the Senate Office in cases of justified threat to their life or health. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a record which is already quite strongly commented, but it is not about introducing the Marshal's Guard everywhere, to every address in Poland, only about the possibility of responding to the Marshal's Guard before the police are notified and before the police arrive. It seems that these will be absolutely exceptional cases, but we want the Marshal's Guard to have this possibility. Ladies and gentlemen! We had situations that were happening on the street. Rural, when it's just a few meters away from Parliament's seat on the street. Rural events have taken place that threaten the security of Members - you could say - directly attacks on Members, and in the night. Until it is asked that the Marshal's Guard have the right to react, leaving these few, several dozen meters beyond... [[What kind of attacks?]] Such attacks, ma'am, that dozens of thugs, otherwise you can't call it... [[He's a sovereign.]] ...it surrounded one MP by insulting him by touching him by pressing against the wall. I would not wish any of the ladies who are responding to my words at the moment to be attacked in such a way that they are attacked by such names as those Members who, alone at night, I remind you, tried to leave the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, this was not about one club, but about many clubs. Reconnaissance. We also want the Marszałkowska Guard to be able to conduct a pyrotechnic-radiological diagnosis of persons, vehicles, areas and objects of the Sejm and the Senate, and to take action to neutralize threats in place of current participation in these activities carried out by the BOR. Ladies and gentlemen! Our parliament is not surrounded by any powerful steel fences... [[But it will be.]] ...and is a relatively open parliament compared to... See what technical security looks like: parks, fences of other parliaments in Europe. There, these societies don't find it unusual. Our parliament is relatively open and the possibility of paying attention to the pyrotechnic safety of the Marshal's Guard seems to be as indicated, especially as today such threats, using explosives, are common in Europe - I think we all know that - including attacks on public buildings, including parliaments. The next task is to detect listening devices in areas, facilities and devices which are on the Board of the Sejm Chancellery and the Board of the Senate Chancellery. The Marshal's Guard will be able to use information about persons and threats held by the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Military Intelligence Service, the Police, the Border Guard and the Military Police. We believe that the Marshal's Guard should know who enters the Parliament, not only by informing who suggested granting a pass to a given person - it should also be able to recognise the risks involved. Officers of the Marshal's Guard will be entitled to apply direct coercion measures and firearms under the rules laid down in the Act of 24 May 2013 on direct coercion and firearms. The result of obtaining the status of officers by the Marshal's Guard guards will be their pension rights provided for in the Act of 18 February 1994 on pension provision of police officers, the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service and other services. In addition, officers of the Marshal's Guard will include a ban on union membership and additional employment. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a situation of course connected with the fact that we want the Marshal's Guard to have much more scope and responsibilities, but above all responsibility. I hope that this voice, a statement that will be published, will also reach every guard in the Seym. The privileges come first and foremost with great responsibilities and great responsibility, full responsibility. Since there are competences, since there are powers, there is a huge responsibility, but also a completely different availability than when you are a civilian worker - the availability that occurs in services popularly called uniform or special services. But the Polish state, if, of course, the law meets with the approval of the parliament, proposes such pension supplies as in the case of other officers. Ladies and gentlemen! The Marshal's Guard will, of course, remain the organizational cell of the Sejm Chancellery. It will be financed from the budget section of which the head of the Sejm is responsible. The Sejm law firm will perform tasks related to administrative, office, financial, legal and organisational services for the Marshal's Guard. Transitional and adapting provisions govern the procedure and rules for transforming the working relations of the Marshal's Guard officers referred to in the Law of 16 March 2001 on the Office for Government Protection in the service relations of the Marshal's Guard officers referred to in the proposed Law on the Marshal's Guard. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also stay here for a moment, because we are now in Parliament in the process of proceeding the Act on the Office of Internal Supervision, as well as the Act on the State Protection Service. These laws merge, interlock, hence the correct order presented to Parliament: first the law concerning the Office of Internal Supervision, then the Law on the State Protection Service and then the Law on the Marshal's Guard. The point is to make these documents consistent. I will propose that we also work in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs if the bill meets with Parliament's approval. Within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Article. 45 Regulations introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard, the head of the Sejm Chancellery, will present to the Marshal's Guard staff a proposal to work in the field of administrative and material and technical services of the Marshal's Guard or to serve in the Marshal's Guard. Here it is a clear separation, as it is in other services, for those who serve in the Marshal's Guard, and those who are, as it were, civil servants of the service. The person who has been offered employment or service shall submit a declaration of acceptance or refusal within 14 days of receipt of the offer. The proposed law also provides for a number of requirements that will have to be met by those who wish to work in the newly appointed service. I ask the High House to proceed with further work, to accept the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u96	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u97	Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law submitted to the Commission. We believe that the Marszałkowska Guard should become a service, should receive new competences, should also perform new duties. We are aware that this will be linked to a highly set bar of requirements for the Marshal's Guard, but above all with a huge responsibility for the security of the Polish parliament. We believe that the changing reality in Europe needs answers, these are the challenges we face. The Marshal's Guard should also be actively involved in the reform of the state. I have already mentioned today that the amendments submitted by the Ministry of Interior and Administration to ensure the security of Poles are submitted and adopted by the High Sejm in the spirit of responding to new challenges. As a Parliamentary Club, this is also how we treat this proposed amendment. The Marszałkowska Guard, after receiving new competences, will be a service with more comprehensive and responsible powers - because it will assume full responsibility; today these are the services that support Parliament in terms of security, and since then the Marszałkowska Guard will assume full responsibility for security in Parliament - it will do its job well. We're pretty sure about that. Of course, the Commandant of the Marshal's Guard in the course of recruitment, the Marshal, the Parliament's leadership will have a task that requires great responsibility, because the previous service of the Office of Government Protection supported the Marshal's Guard in these most difficult tasks, and from that moment on the Parliament by the Marshal's Guard will gain autonomy. A comprehensive solution for ensuring the security of Parliament by one service is a good solution and therefore the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill submitted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 17 October, a meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs was convened to discuss proposals for legislative initiatives concerning the Marshal's Guard. However, already at the meeting of this committee on 25 October it turned out that Members are to take a committee resolution initiative on the basis of already prepared projects. The problem is that neither Members of the Civic Platform nor, I think, colleagues from Modern and PSL had any part in the preparation of the design and design of this project. Thus, an attempt to give this project the rank of committee without prior consultation, without the opinion of all clubs disqualifies it in this form at the very beginning. It cannot be that Members of the PiS or other entities prepare such extensive material in the silences of their offices, probably spending many weeks working on it, and put projects on the committee table, expecting that they will be adopted in a cross-party consensus. We are convinced that, in many cases, we would reach an agreement, too - and I believe - on the key issue for this formation, we are talking about powers, especially in terms of the pension provision of officers. However, we cannot accept the catalogue of activities that this new service is to carry out. Members of the Civic Platform do not need personal protection, especially outside the Sejm. We are not afraid of the sovereign and will talk to him even if Marshal Kuchciński puts a wall around the Sejm. Why would the Marshals' Guards have permission reserved for the special forces? Why the possibility of direct coercion, tasers, tonf sticks, that I wouldn't mention firearms? The Act will allow you to obtain personal sources of information, i.e. paid agent. I have the overwhelming impression that Marshal Kuchciński also wants to own his specialty, such as Minister Macierewicz - Military of Territorial Defence, Minister Błaszczak - Office of Internal Supervision, i.e. internal political police, or Mariusz Kamiński - National Security Agency, as the head of all bosses, who is to know everything about everyone. The creation of the new Marshal's Guard, according to the authors of the project, will have no discernible financial consequences. They're right. Since the budget of the Sejm Office will increase by 23%, by PLN 83 million and will amount to PLN 591 million, this additional 20 million madness does not work. Although for this 20 million it could be, for example. raise the lowest benefits for nearly 7 000. War veterans or prepare 30,000. Expeditions for students. It is clear that the work coincides with the decommissioning of the BOR, which has been operating in its current form since 2001, for the State Protection Service, and that any organisational change is the perfect gateway to staff changes. In 2008, ladies and gentlemen, the Marszałkowska Guard had 115 officers, while next year it was to count 280. It's not much anyway. The State Security Service is expected to increase by 790 officers. Well, that's impressive. The acquisition of pension rights identical to those of other uniformed services will result in large turnover in staff and influx of so-called. fresh blood. I hope that the service calls will be held according to competence criteria, not according to the key of political sympathy. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, there would be real concerns that the new haul would not have had the slightest scruples to forcefully resolve possible parliamentary crises. After all, it is no secret why the previous Marshal's Commandant, Mr. Arkadiusz Koschalke, was dismissed, who said that he would never use force against Members of the opposition. In summary, the form of presentation of the project excludes it. You can't do fiction, folks, saying it's a cross-party project. As for the contents... Social issues, including pension provision - we are on yes. On the other hand, we do not agree with the delegation of such broad operational powers, which have so far been due to specialists. And last but not least, ladies and gentlemen: Do you really want to put on this new formation in parade costumes, shackled shoes and swords like the Hungarian Parliament or is this just fake news? One more thing. Isn't the possibility of protecting Members outside the Sejm specially cut under President Kaczyński? After all, we all know that private security costs you a fortune, and so for the protection of the president at Nowogrodzka taxpayers will pay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u100	There's no way to be stupid. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law on the Marshal's Guard. Ladies and gentlemen! The Marshal's Guards waited many years for this bill. Many times we talked to the guards and knew their expectations. We may have some doubts as to the manner in which this bill is presented or treated. It was really a fast mode, but let's also consider one thing; this is the rate dictated by one important thing, namely that if we give the project a run right now, it will be a chance that it will come in either at the beginning of the year or as soon as possible, and that is very expected. If we do preliminary work, that is, getting along, extending, it will only be to the detriment of the guards themselves. Second thing. We have some reservations. as regards the terms of reference which are introduced in this Act, but on the other hand, this concerns only a certain part. We're not gonna throw this project in the trash or criticize it. Only because, in one, two, three points, we will probably have a different opinion at the committee's meeting as to the scope of our duties than the Law and Justice. On the other hand, there is no doubt that today we have a problem, because the Marshal's Guard, while serving, even at a time when we, Members, have different fanaberies, sometimes during the holidays, must be here, and their powers are actually very limited. We see very often that the guard is on duty with a representative of the BOR, with a police officer or with anyone else who has the authority that this guard doesn't have. In fact, we are in a certain sense duplicated the positions that are here today, in the Seym, occupied by the guards, or we are duplicated by people at specific points protecting the Sejm's buildings or protecting the Members here. So that going in this direction is, in my opinion, a good solution. But, as I say, indeed, the issue of certain areas of action, including the sources of information or possibly the protection of very extended Members, maybe it would be useful to discuss. But, as I say, this is the thing we can talk about on the committee. Another thing is, of course, the elements concerning the social part, the pension part. Finally, the guards will acquire powers and cease to be a uniformed group suspended somewhere in space between what has full-fledged uniformed services today and what is attributed to completely civilian people, i.e. a number of citizens. So we, despite some reservations, will be in favour of directing this project to further work. That's where we want to join the discussion. I hope that in this particular case, the government side will be ready to listen also to good proposals that will have opposition clubs, including the Kukiz club15. I hope that this time there will not be such block rejection of everything, because we really should together, above divisions, create a bill for those people who work next to us every day and provide us with security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u102	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the Marshal's Guard Act. The bill raises a lot of controversy. And to be honest, I'm wondering why Mr. Marshal must have a uniformed and armed executive formation carrying out the task of protecting the Sejm and the Senate. At the same time, at the order of the Marshal of the Sejm, the protection of Members and Senators also takes place outside the territory of the Sejm and the Senate. I wonder one thing, namely that several powers of the Office of Government Protection are to take over the Marshal's Guard. I'm worried that the Marshals' Guard will also take over some of the activities that the police have recently had. in the context of the surveillance of opposition member Richard Petru, because, as we know, this happened. And here's the question: Willn't the Marshal's Guard also take over such powers from the police? Just a few more things. Why does the Marshal's Guard have to deal with the convoying of monetary values, property and documents? I mean, there's specialized companies that do that. But in order to add such skills to the Marshal's Guard, I think it's a bit of an exaggeration. There is a participation in the performance of representation tasks. The fact that in the justification is kind of a reference to some historical aspects and the 16th-century function of the guard at the marshal, is okay. It can be said that it is a good thing that we are taking over some things from history, while here we have the situation that the Marszałkowska Guard will participate in the performance of representation tasks and in honorary assists. And here I am wondering, because recently the Members of the PiS have instructed the President how to welcome Mr Kaczyński, if he will not be such an honorary aide at every time Mr Kaczyński arrives in the Sejm. 'Cause maybe that's the way it's gonna have to be. Government authorities, local authorities and state institutions are obliged to cooperate with the Marshal's Guard, and in particular to assist in carrying out its tasks, in order to collect, process information that may affect the performance of its tasks. After all, these are activities that are characteristic of the service, not for the Marshal's Guard. The processing of personal data of the Marszałkowska Guard may be carried out without the knowledge and consent of the person concerned. What are you guys writing in here? Because I'm not admitting that this is my project, even though I'm a member of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. It's definitely not my project, because I wouldn't sign on to something like this. This law really raises a lot of reservations. Therefore, we will be very negative about the work, the project that went to the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u104	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. One minute, 11 seconds left.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u105	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm going to start with where my colleague ended up: Whose bill is it? Because during committee meetings there was no discussion of assumptions, we did not discuss the shape that the provisions of this law could adopt. The PiS says here that it should be a law passed over divisions that regulates an important area of the Sejm. It's a full match. You're just saying one thing and you're doing the other. You bring the bill to the committee's meeting, a few days before she'll be oversold by e-mail, we don't discuss its assumptions, we don't discuss its shape. The only message made by Mr President today is that we must make a decision: then, for or against? And the substantive discussion will take place once the Marshal directs her to read. It can't be like this. Either it's a commission project and we're discussing assumptions, or it's a PiS project and you're throwing something in as a commission project. Is that the Members' whip? Yes, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules of service, the rules of service and the requirements are completely different. It is a whip for Members, there is nothing to deceive, a desire to militarise the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u106	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski from the club of the Polish People's Party will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u107	Each of the ministers wants his service. Mr. Marshal wants his service, too. Mr. Marshal! I apply to reject the draft law on the Marshal's Guard from print No. 1971 at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u108	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present the position of the Polish People's Party to the Commission's draft law on the Marshal's Guard. As parliamentarians in this House, we have met more than one term on a daily basis, and we continue to meet the guards of the Marshal's Guards on the premises of the Sejm. The status of the guards of the Marshal's Guard until today has not been properly regulated or, most importantly, legally sanctioned. It is worth noting that, over time, in terms of the functioning of the Marshal's Guard, its employees have always done their duties well and exemplaryly, they have often served parliamentarians with considerable help, and they have presented themselves with dignity in front of citizens on the premises of the Parliament. It is also noted that the guards of the Marshal's Guard are people employed for employment contracts, with all the consequences resulting from the provisions of the Labour Code Act. The geopolitical situation, increased care for the property of the State Treasury and the obligation to protect the premises of the Sejm and the Senate make it necessary for the guards of the Marshal's Guard to act as officers, not employees with the right to give them the status of a public officer. The proposed regulation will not only increase the prestige of this service, increase the powers of future officers, but also align their position with that of other public servants. With regard to the provisions implementing the Marshal's Guard Act, it should be fully agreed that it would not be possible or justified to operate the Marshal's Guard Act itself without amending the provisions already in force listed in Chapter 2. As an example, I will point out amendments to the Civil Procedure Code Act or the Retirement Provision Act for Professional Soldiers and their Families or, for example, the Social Security Act. The adoption of the proposal to join the new service of the Marshal's Guard will not be mandatory, but will depend on the wish to take a vow according to a specific rota in the Marshal's Guard Act. Taking all this into account, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of directing the project to further legislative work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u110	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Huskowski, near the European Union of Democrats, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Here is another law, which is at least controversial, another law which interferes with civil liberties, another law which builds the State of PiS, a state which is going to totalitarian power. The new law has some new, important elements. He's got more, but a few are very important. Here the Marszałkowska Guard is to have the authority to operate not only in the Sejm, i.e. in an area limited from the street. The village's little wall, but also, as it is written, for protection, at the command of the Marshal of the Sejm, Members and Senators outside the areas and objects referred to in point 1, outside this wall, on the sidewalk, on the street, where tents are often placed by various citizens who protest against the next moves of power, now the power of the PiS. Other citizens also protested once. But this is an area that is inherently... I've been a parliamentarian for a dozen years. In this area there were many demonstrations, right, wrong, less right or more right, but it was an area of freedom; it was an area where it could be demonstrated. Recently, it is very often demonstrated by Polish citizens, the Association of Polish Citizens and other related associations. Against the citizens of the Republic of Poland is issued by the Marshal or by the Marshal's authority by the Marshal's Guard, not allowed to enter the Seym area. It turns out that now it will be possible to push them out of there, because the Marshal's Guard will have the authority to operate outside of the fenced wall. I am an observer at the court proceedings which are taking place concerning the crossing of this wall by Polish citizens. It is ridiculous, pathetic, embarrassing for the Marshal of the Sejm, for Marshal of Kuchciński, who directs charges of trespassing into the Seym area to the court. The first acquittal sentence was delivered at the second instance on October 23rd. The Court of First Instance acquitted these citizens, simply in the downs, breaking the Marshal's argument that this wall is a border that must not be crossed by citizens, those who are disobedient and who do not find recognition in the eyes of the Marshal. Moreover, the Marshal's Guard receives much more powers to apply different measures: direct coercive measures, firearms, etc. This law restricts civil liberties. This is an extremely important bill. I am surprised that Mr Czartoryski does not notice this, in any case he does not talk about it. She's restricting essential civil liberties. Operating activities, physical strength, handcuffs, firearms are new attributes of the state, new attributes of the PiS state. And so your authority will be judged after years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u112	12 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mrs Halina Szydłoko, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The question still arises as to why the Marshal's Guard is armed. These questions also arise at committee meetings. It seems obvious. If the Marshal's Guard is to protect not only Members and Senators, but also all those who are in Parliament must have the right tools for doing so, especially since times are no longer as peaceful as dozens or dozens of years ago. To reassure everyone concerned, I wanted to ask: How often have there been cases of violence, shooting someone or killing someone because of the fact that the Marshal's Guard is armed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u114	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another bill, actually creating a special service again. Another army, though few, but this time the Marshal of the Sejm. The Kuriozum is a provision which concerns the protection of Members and Senators. To be honest, in the current execution of the marshal and the majority of Parliament, I would be afraid of such protection, but let us say that this is addressed to another group of Members. It has already been said here that surely the first Member to receive such protection is Mr Kaczyński, because he is entitled to it. I have a question: How will it be with members of the government who are members of the government who have protection? Meaning what? At the entrance to the Sejm, today's badgers will be sidelined or will they compete with each other? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Again, it's gonna be like getting tangled up in your own legs. Thank you. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u116	Thank you, sir. Ma'am Małgorzata Navelek, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're wasting Poles' money, your diplomacy with hundreds of millions of business cards, the President's protection goes into millions of zlotys, and now we have a proposal to increase the number of Marshal's Guard officers almost twice. On their salary, the taxpayer will spend PLN 15 million more each year. New uniforms and swords are an additional 2 million PLN. That's what you want to give money for, and that's what you've got, and it's not for the public's health. These swords, which the guards are supposed to salute the president or - as someone once said - the head of the state, it is even absurd in the 21st century. This results in one conclusion: a good change is becoming more and more scared, it fences itself with fences, it increases its protection. 'Cause the real reason [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want more guards? So it would be easier to get Members of the opposition out of the Sejm? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u118	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have specific questions for the applicant. First question: In what situations will the Marshal's Guard use the help of non-officers? Will it be direct aid, e.g. in action or informational, as special informants? The second question concerns the protection of Members in the field. Under what circumstances and at whose request can the Marshal's Guard enter the parliamentary offices, and what activities can he undertake in these offices? The third question concerns the financial implications for the state budget. 120 extra jobs, uniforms, weapons. What are the financial implications for the State budget and have these amounts been secured in the 2018 draft budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u120	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The image of the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło is a single, scattered minister, each one of whom is a rudder, a ship and a sailor, and this chaos, though difficult to deal with, allows us to drift over the next months of this government. However, what happens next to the ministerial everyday life is no longer worrying, but becomes even dangerous. It turns out that the carelessness of ministers caused some of them to want to have, for example. My army, here I think of Minister Macierewicz, his services - Minister Błaszczak. And now Mr. Marshal Kuchciński wanted his and only his formation. I would like to ask if Marshal Kuchciński, after giving new powers to his own Marshal's Guard, will not only apply severe financial penalties, but also boldly resort to other forms of discipline for the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u122	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This meeting in particular, but actually this whole term of office of the Sejm will go to the history of Polish parliamentarianism as a term of fear, creation of new services to protect both individual Members and individual ministries and their heads, as well as all of you from the PiS, who unfortunately said that you would listen to the sovereign and simply fear the sovereign. I'm really wondering what that's coming from. You're pumping these fantastic polls, and you still have over half the votes in support, or at least in your opinion. Well, if that's the case, then go out openly and openly into the streets, don't be afraid of anyone or anything. Let's let everyone in the Sejm who just wants to come here. The rapporteur referred to him in his speech, for example. to the German Parliament, to the Bundestag. Why do you marshals not apply the rules that apply to Members there, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to questions of speaking, freedom of speech? And one more short question: Where do the swords function in the Polish tradition when it comes to the Marshal's Guard? Please give me such an element of the history of Polish parliamentarianism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u124	Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My question is addressed to the rapporteur, but also to the Minister. Both gentlemen have long been messengers. Why is it only about 30 years after we regain independence that we regulate an important matter like the Marshal's Watch? For nearly 30 years, it really did not bother anyone that it was governed by some four regulations. My second point concerns the statements of some Members. I'm so sorry to have to talk about this. If your name - anybody - were constantly mentioned in different contexts, not always good, would you think that this is a language of hatred, or that it is simply cultural behavior? Thank you. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u126	Mrs Anna Nemś.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, This is our commission project. It is only a pity - as the previous speakers have said and pointed out - that you have not made an effort so that we can actually work in committee and in substance. This is a great pity, because as for many of these things that we are talking about here - and here there is great respect for all the gentlemen we have been meeting for years - about improving the quality of work, the conditions of pay, there is agreement. all of us, but - but - about separating from the sovereign and building walls absolutely does not exist. I want to ask if we've been working so hard on where this number 120 came from. Why isn't it 100, 50, 80? There have also been questions from Members about the fact that the guardians - I do not know if they are fully aware of this today - will be posted to individual persons, the ones most vulnerable according to the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where did the number 120 come from? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u128	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two questions. One simple thing: Why did we have to wait so long for this project? The second is a bit more difficult: will the introduction of these rules - in my opinion these regulations strengthen the competence and character of the Marshal's Guard - contribute to the elimination of these fences, axes that are around the Sejm? For I have the impression that the Sejm is becoming more and more like a sieged fortress. These fences appeared last year in December, then disappeared for a while, but now they're all the time, so I understand that we're still at a very high level of danger. The question is: What is the threat of the Sejm today? Are citizens threatening him? In the area of the Seym complex you must not move without a pass, which is quite strange, because there are normal streets that have names like other streets in Warsaw. This is not enough, I think there is a new order by Mr. Marshal, according to which the Marshal's Guard has to check whether Members are bringing someone in or not to smuggle someone in their cars. Ladies and gentlemen, be serious, trust some of the Members of the Polish Parliament. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, someone chose us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u130	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Rzoniec.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank the critics of this law because, in fact, such an embarrassing justification and this embarrassing criticism will turn into more support for the PiS because everyone wants to live in a safer country. [[Applause]] Everyone wants to live in a safer country no matter who the party is in. Security is absolutely paramount, this is one of the first needs of people. [[No, health is more important.]] If we are talking today about the fact that we want to live in a safe Seym, in safe streets, in safe cities - someone may even come to the Member's office and say that you are in danger here and here - are you offended? Think about it. We will support and speak well of this project as PiS and PiS Members, because the guards deserve it, and all our guests who come here deserve it. And all those who respect the Polish uniform, just respect him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u132	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If the PiS state respects the uniform of police officers, the uniform of firefighters, the uniform of the Marshal's Guard, don't separate yourself from the citizens. In the meantime, you're putting up shovels, you're putting up nets, you're detaining the Sejm. This is exactly the kind of project to keep the Sejm from the citizens. What are you trying to hide? (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions for you. The first concerns the costs for those pension rights to be acquired by officers. I understand that this was discussed at the committee meeting, so if Mr President had been kind enough to approximate the costs There's a connection to this operation. Second question. Has the issue of the Marshal's Guard's possession of weapons been considered? I'm saying this in such a context that there's been a case recently, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure he's been detained under the influence of alcohol. Have you considered the situation that a drunken officer walks around the Seym with a gun and is waving that gun? What about the security of Members in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u134	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Some of the records aren't quite clear. Why? Because part of the first law proposes that the Marszałkowska Guard should operate not only in the territory of the Sejm and the Senate, i.e. in the territory belonging to the parliament, but also outside. In the next part there is a list of activities which these Marshal's Guard officers can perform, i.e. searches, detentions, etc. Now the question is whether these activities can also be carried out outside the parliament, i.e. go to en. Three Crosses, stop someone, review someone, identify them, submit them to some kind of operational activity, or do these powers belong to officers of the Marshal's Guard only within the Sejm and Senate? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u136	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was said here that this project will improve the safety of Poles. That's what Mr. Ronce said. I would like to say that it will improve the safety of a very narrow group of Poles. I do not wish the building of the Sejm, the area of the Sejm to be completely isolated from society. I must tell you that what has been going on for many years, which means that the object was available, that it was possible to enter here, was much better. You will not detain us, we are parliamentarians, representatives of society, and therefore naturally we must have contact with society. I do not wish that from this speaker Mr Czartoryski says that the Marshal's Guard is to protect us from thugs, because Poles are not thugs, Mr Marshal. You insult the Poles. [[Applause]] This is the disgraceful behaviour of the chairman of the committee. You can't use words like that. Poles have the right to have contact with us, they have the right to intervene in matters that are important to them, and you cannot insult them. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u138	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would therefore like to ask the State Secretary to speak at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Young and Adults at the Gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! Questions to government put directly were either not or almost not. I would like to say a few words about this bill, but I will start by saying that security is certainly something - there was such a discussion, such a thread appeared - it is one of the most important values. One can discuss which values can be set on an equal footing, but surely security is one of the most important values, and Parliament is the most important authority in democracy, in a democratic state. In Polish conditions it is the Sejm and the Senate. So ensuring that the Sejm and the Senate are safe is an important element of the entire security system, and I think we can all agree on that. When we talked on the previous item on the agenda about the safety of the most important people in the country, the executive authority, about the most important facilities for the performance of tasks by government authorities, about foreign delegations and their security, about facilities abroad, Polish institutions and their security, we had one big cry of protest, criticism and opposition from the opposition. Now that we're talking about safety, among others. Members, senators, employees of the Sejm and the Senate, those who visit Parliament, are in a similar situation. You're actually obsessed with it. You're blowing up the Secret Service, you see them everywhere. There's an I.A.O. Act, and in your understanding, it's a special service. [[This is special duty.]] We want to transform into a more efficient security formation in an important area of the current Government Protection Office, and we want to wind up some kind of ruse and special services. You can see how they work. We want to give more powers, but also duties of the Marshal's Guard, and you see in this also some idea that this formation will also be transformed into a special service. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it because this is an obsession of yours. Moreover, a year ago, we wanted to ensure security in a very important area, because we wanted to address terrorist threats. You were against it. This bill turned out to be very necessary. It makes Poland safer than elsewhere. Now they're being processed for further laws to increase security. You're against it, too. I don't think that's what the Poles expect from you. They don't expect from parliamentarians at all. You say, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that the Marshal's Guard is supposed to escort you out of the Sejm. No, on the contrary, he wants to protect you, but the voters in your position can actually get you out of the Sejm. We won't cry about this anymore because you're hurting Poland. [[You know what, I think you're overreacting.]] [[Definitely, I don't think so.]] You can yell, as you can see, nothing more. All actions that aim to increase the level of security in the country, in particular segments, aspects, deserve attention, deserve recognition. It's one of those projects. The Sejm and the Senate are special places, as I have already said, but also sensitive. Should this be an area of freedom and freedom? Of course I do. Ladies and gentlemen, you are the ones who are funding some of the threats that have taken place. Who occupied this podium? Who was blocking the Sejm's deliberations? Who made it impossible to adopt laws? Who supported those who made a fuss at the Sejm? Who encouraged them to do this? [[You.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, please answer the question as to whether everything is okay from this side. There's another way to look at it. Today, the modern world brings various dangers, various dangers. Objects such as large-area shops, private institutions and local authorities are being protected by monitoring in schools and on the streets. It's for security, it's normal and natural, and you don't want security in the Seym. You don't want the safety of the most important people in the country. To think about it, if you are still able to deal objectively with these kinds of problems. The events that have taken place over the past few years indicate that objects, including the Sejm and the Senate, may be at risk in various respects in terms of security, even in terms of terrorist threats, as well as other crimes, common and criminal offences. They may also be threatened by irresponsible behaviour by those who break the law. You just have to keep an eye on it, someone has to do it. It is called for and provided for in this new bill to an even greater extent and greater intensity of the Marszałkowska Guard. Of course, a number of issues will need to be refined and clarified during the Commission's work at the next stages of the legislative process in the Sejm. As you know, as we all know, there is a law on the State Protection Service in the legislative procedure. It is precisely these relations that will need to be carefully refined, analysed and well written as regards the division of tasks, roles, especially in the Sejm, the Senate, near these Parliamentary facilities, as regards the cooperation of both of these services and their officers. This may also apply to other services, e.g. Police. Here too this contact will probably appear, because these are the different formations that they are tasked with, according to their statutory tasks, to guard security in particular segments. There was a very important question, actually there were two questions or two very important, in my opinion, voices in this discussion, namely the voice of Prof. Józefina Hrynkiewicz and the voice of Mr Bogdan Rzońca. Mr Rzońc was just talking about the value of security. In fact, I've already commented, but I'm signing that voice. Thank you for making this case. Mrs Hrynkiewicz asked why this matter is being dealt with so late. That's a very good question, a very basic question. Why not just now? It's a good thing that right now, it's a good thing that's what's happening. There's a committee initiative. As you can see, the parliamentary majority, the Law and Justice stand for it. Opposite clubs criticize this to varying degrees. Some want rejection, others present a slightly milder approach, but such full support on the opposition side is not visible. [[Minister, you have to listen well.]] And that's a shame, because there should be support for this initiative as a project. However, I repeat once again that it is undoubtedly necessary to refine and clarify this, especially with regard to relations with other laws and duties of other services. [[And the PSL backed, you have to listen well.]] Thank you so much for your support. Indeed, you speak in a slightly different tone than the previous laws. It's a fact, I'm noticing it. Thank you for asking, but justice must be done. Ladies and gentlemen, the current staff of the Marshal's Guard should receive the status of officers. They should be covered by the same rules of service pragmatism as officers of other services, because they carry out and will carry out similar tasks, especially under the new law. In fact, a few years ago during the discussion on other bill projects we promised this as the Law and Justice of the Marshal's Guard. I understand in this way that this project is the implementation of this announcement. At the same time, other parliamentary clubs, including those not present today in the Sejm, were in favour of this. I think it's time to really deal with this issue and regulate it well. I do not want to go into details because they still require work, but undoubtedly an important aspect that appears in this bill is to ensure security not only for the objects, not only for the most important people in Parliament, but for everyone, because all people are important. Each Member is as important as the marshal, the marshal is just being elected by the House, right, and first each of us is elected by the voters. We want the guests who visit the Sejm to feel safe, we want them to actually come to this place, which is to be an open space, but we need to keep them safe. Of course, issues related to the actions of the present BOR, and the future State Protection Service, and the Marshal's Guard against those who are subject to the protection of today's BOR, are still to be clarified, but I do not think that there is a problem with this, because there is also a similar situation today. There is also a question of how with small forces the Marszałkowska Guard could perform tasks outside the Sejm, especially for a longer distance, during the journey, but perhaps it is also necessary to regulate. It's worth thinking about, it's worth working on. Therefore, although I must say that the government's formal position for this bill is not yet available, this is a fresh initiative, but on behalf of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the management of the department I would like to say that in our view it is worth it, we need to work on this valuable bill, a committee project. I declare on behalf of the Ministry and the Government that, during further work, we will try to make our contribution, to make this law as optimal as possible, to bring good solutions and to be consistent with other laws, with the tasks of other services, well correlated with those tasks and legal acts. I think that, with good will and going away from the attitude of negation of everything, we can really write, and finally announce - the project is already written - after possible corrections very good, the expected bill concerning the security of the Sejm, Senate, marshals, Members, Senators, employees, guests, all who will ever come and stay here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u140	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, representative of the applicants, please take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u141	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very disappointed in this debate, although I would like to make very clear and express my thanks to the PSL club and Kukiz club15 for the declarations of cooperation and work on this law, for the declarations of proposals, amendments, which gives us hope that we will have a good, cross-party law that will serve for many, many terms of office for all parliaments. On the other hand, I am very surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that I am looking in memory of such a situation in the discussion of any laws, so that there will be such voices as here today at the address of this law, especially from the modern club. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand this malice to the nth power of the three Members of the Modern Club. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the Marshal's Watch Act. Some historical traditions of the Marshal's Guard, even since pre-dissection times, exist in Poland. We have a common desire for the Seym to be safe so that we can work peacefully. What makes you think that this law is a whip for Members? Where do these words come to mind that Mr Suchoń said to me: Does he imagine Mr Czartoryski that the drunken guard of the Marshal's Guard will walk around Parliament and wave his weapons? Ladies and gentlemen, there are some proportions, some boundaries of decency. [[Applause]] There are limits to decency. Have you ever seen a drunken Marshal's Guardian waving a gun? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You did not understand the question.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's have a little decency. Let's not use those terms. [[Never.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You did not understand the question.]] Of course, those words which came from the lips of Members of the Platform and Modern, addressed to Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, absent during this debate, who is not the author of this law, who is not a member of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs, that this is a law written to protect Jarosław Kaczyński from citizens, to reduce the cost of protection... Ladies and gentlemen, what are these shameful words for? After all these years of bullying, attacking Jarosław Kaczyński, even when we talk about the Marshal's Guard, do you also have to show such vulgar malice? Can't you just hold off on these attacks for a second? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But you were the ones who wanted to get MPs out of the Sejm in December.]] That's what everyone hears, isn't it? Even the young people heard it today. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really surprised. During the discussion about the Marshal's Guard? Mr Meysztowicz said today that we want to shred the Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? Where did we come from in Parliament? Mrs Halina Szydleko asked how often the guards of the Marshal's Guard were shooting. I don't recall such a situation at all - no shooting or shooting, and I can't imagine such a situation, of course. I do not know where Mr Mirosław Suchoni came up with such a comparison, a picture of the walking drunk guard of the Marshal's Guard waving a weapon. Ladies and gentlemen, the Marshal's Guard has access to weapons today at all. You must remember this and prepare for this debate first. Of course, there's no talking about going into the parliamentary offices. I was very clear about that. Mrs. Zofia Czernow asks under what circumstances parliamentary offices will be oppressed. Ladies and gentlemen, it's an occasional situation when it's on the street. The villagers are being attacked by MEPs. As for the Member, again from Modern - actually I do not know what the club is talking about with this debate - I have said it, and I will repeat it again, about thugs, because among our citizens we also have Poles who are... [[The Poles, not the thugs.]] ...criminals, murderers, prisons. There are different Poles, just as there are different people in all nations. I was talking about three situations that I wouldn't wish you or your friends. The messenger leaves the parliament and there is a vulgar attack, she is alone on the street, there are evening hours. I wouldn't wish any of your friends were in this situation. And I said that these are... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I don't think you know what e-mails we get...]] ...in situations where the guards should respond as much as possible. We have an example of Mr Janik. The police must have come after the attack on Mr Janik. It was attacked by dozens or even dozens of people. We have an example of Mr Jakub. Ladies and gentlemen, these are disproportionate to the content of the document we have on the table for the document we are working on. Of course, it's all these remarks that it's a private army. This is Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Of course it's not a private army of Marshal Kuchciński. That is unnecessary malice, Madam Member. The marshals will change, as they have changed over the years and decades, and the bill, if we work it together, will serve the parliament. There are similar laws in other European Parliaments. Similar laws work there. These are unnecessary malices directed towards your marshal. And I encourage this - I am counting on it and I still hope that - you and all the Members in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs will work on this law. We really want this to be a common law, so that it can serve all parliamentary clubs, the entire parliament, Polish parliamentarianism, and it has served for many years. Let's work on a bill like this at last. Let us take advantage of this, there are BAS opinions - please reach out to them - about this kind of solutions in other European countries. [[Voice from the hall: There is no opening up on the platform...]] He's turning it off. Now, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to questions - I am also surprised - about the sword, it has been functioning for hundreds of years in the Polish tradition of uniform services. It is an honorary weapon, today it resembles not only the history of the Polish state, but also the history of individual uniform formations. It usually accompanies the banner. It's about honoring the banner or honoring the moment when the banner is displayed, in extremely solemn situations, taking a worth or something. in national state holidays. I do not know what you mean, that you mock this one of the most beautiful Polish traditions, the tradition of honorary weapons, white weapons, which are swords. Please? [[There was a question, not laughing.]] No. There have been many such questions about the swords, but not from the Member. [[I asked about the sword specifically and waited for an answer.]] I am not talking about being mean to the Member. Don't take it that way. But as far as the swords are concerned, there have been many speeches here in rather ridiculous terms. That's how I got it. We're gonna... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you. I hope that we will discuss this at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. I count on amendments, including those related to finance, including those related to posts. I would not like to decide in the end here today the shape, the size of the budget or the shape and the number of posts. Let me repeat: it is a proposal, it is a presentation that awaits work in committee. We are at the very beginning of this work, we have the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed the Law on State Protection and we are in the process of working on it in Parliament. If that bill is passed, it will also condition the situation of today's BOR officers, who work in parliament, protect the parliament. So that these things will be further clarified, these things will be further worked out by us, I hope, in the administration committee, in the course of parliamentary work and in the Senate. We will ask the employees of the Sejm about what is necessary, the necessary amount of additional equipment to buy. There's a misunderstanding here, too. Of course, the gun and today it is. Marshal guards today have access to weapons. However, with regard to these new purchases referred to in the annexes to the document you are asking about, we will also ask the Sejm's Office about these needs, about the amounts, about the necessary increase of posts, in the context of the Law on State Protection. If it is passed in this form and not in another form, these things will be settled. There's no rush, we're not in a position to make it January 1, 2018. We would like it to be 2018, so that on the 100th anniversary of independence the Polish Parliament, like many other parliaments, will gain service, the Marshal's Guard, the service built on the present achievements of the Marshal's Guard, in which such facts, which you have quoted here, did not take place. They just didn't happen. There is already a tradition of the present Marshal's Guard, which will be absorbed, and I hope it will be a joint project. Despite these voices, I hope it will be a joint project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, as corrected. You're welcome. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Czartoryski, I have made it clear that this law shows hypocrisy, shows hypocrisy. You didn't understand me. He's showing hypocrisy because you're coming out here on the stand, and he's telling us what a great tradition it is, what an important issue, what a beautiful thing for a century of independence. [[Isn't it?]] You talk about it beautifully, but it's hypocritical because you're putting the project on the committee meeting and you don't know who made the assumptions, because it's certainly not the committee. We didn't talk about it. Who prepared the project? It's not the committee. We didn't talk about it. We haven't talked about the shape of this project. You're surprised we're talking about cases when the guard intervened under the influence of alcohol. Yes, in Parliament, sir. In Parliament's territory against citizens. [[And he was waving his gun around?]] These are important questions we should ask ourselves. And we didn't ask those questions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause you're being hypocritical. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Even if these are difficult questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u144	Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Very many ladies and many ladies come forward with correction, so please follow the time. [[Of course, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr Bogdan Rzońc was the first to come forward, I'm sorry, he was the first to come forward. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the famous German philosophers said, here I quote that Minerva's owl leaves at dusk. Not in the morning, not at noon, not until noon. For some Members will not be helped by any argument if there is no wisdom. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Is that a correction?]] [[Voices from the room: But the corrigendum...]] [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Shame, Mr.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u146	I would ask that Members, and here the attention to Mr Bogdan Rzońca, actually take the floor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the manner of correcting, not polemic. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski. [[Voice from the room: It is better to remain silent.]] [[It wasn't a corrigendum, it was a corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister, listening to my statement, seems to have misunderstood or, unfortunately, wanted to introduce public opinion, especially the Marshal's Guard, into error. Speaking on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I made it clear that the project was supported and we are in favour of further legislative work. Minister! Please don't mislead the public because it's not the minister's right thing to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u148	Mrs Lidia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. You totally misunderstood the intent of my speech. I asked you a brief question about the gala costume of the Marshal's Guard, and you built a cover around it for mocking the gala costume. There was no such intention at any point in my speech. And I haven't heard anyone else have such intentions, but it may have slipped my mind. [[He did.]] You haven't answered my question, and you've done a whole giant cover about someone mocking the issue of swords. One specific question. If you're not prepared for this today, I understand. I expect you to answer in writing, and thank you very much. On the other hand, to Minister Zieliński: you did not only completely misunderstand, but also did not listen to our speeches. You had one album set up about us attacking the project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No. Well, what is in the good project concerning this reconstruction or the change in the work of the Marshal's Guard, of course, we support. But answer the questions, and don't threaten us all the time and don't laugh at us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u150	Thank you, Member. Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u151	Just a little bit. Thank you, Marshal, for giving the floor. I didn't say anything about PSL in my speech. It was only to make this clear that I was right that there was really no rejection request here, only for further work, but in these speeches, also in your speech as regards the content of the whole speech, that there was also no admiration for the whole project. [[Don't bring... into the public debate.]] So do not be surprised that I have formulated the general view that there is no support. But, of course, I also corrected what you demanded, so that I'm maintaining. [[Now you're misleading public opinion.]] Mr President, please do not accuse me of misleading anyone, and certainly no longer public opinion, because I do not feel that way, that is not true. I'm reading the voices we all hear. The content of the speeches is written in the transcripts, we can go back to it, so I think if we have to, there will be no dispute when we read it together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Very well, come in.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u152	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 1971 and 1972 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on the social security system and some other laws (print No 1974). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister... High Izbo! The Minister should join us. In a few minutes, that's why I'm managing a three-minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 50 hrs 12 min 53]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on the social security system and some other laws (print No 1974). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of social security as an institution of a broadly understood social policy is to guarantee the insured person the income lost as a result of a specific random event, also called social risk. This principle, characteristic of social security law, is reflected in the mechanisms for determining the amount of social security contributions, broadly understood. As a general rule, the contribution is based on the remuneration of the activities which constitute the title of social insurance. The same principle is laid down in the rules governing the calculation of social security benefits. The size of the insurance benefit is based on the remuneration generated by the activities giving rise to the social security obligation. This principle has so far been fully implemented only in sickness insurance, accident insurance, general health insurance, but also as regards the system of guaranteeing benefits from the Labour Fund, i.e. the unemployment risk protection system as well as in the insurance against the risk of insolvency of the employer - it can be said that the benefits from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund were also financed by contributions collected from the total remuneration of persons covered by such a guarantee. This principle has so far not been applicable in the field of pension insurance and pension insurance. We have, we are dealing with in this area, except for the principle, except actually this principle. The reason for whether it is part of this exception or whether the substance of this exception is the mechanical automatic limitation of the maximum annual base of the pension and pension contributions, which has been in force in our social security system since 1 January 1999. The essence of the project, which I have the pleasure of presenting to the High House today, a government bill amending the Social Security Act, is the proposal to abolish the limitation of the maximum annual basis for the assessment of pension and pension contributions, i.e. the proposal, can be said to include this general principle, which applies in the social security system, including pensions. [[Normalization.]] It can be said that this project also envisages abolishing the reduction of the benefit base, because the other side of the same medal, the consequence of the limitation of the maximum annual basis for pension and pension contributions is also a mechanical, automatic reduction in the amount of pension and pension benefits charged by persons who achieve revenues of more than 30 times the average monthly salary per year, i.e. an amount of 250% the average monthly salary per month. According to our findings, our calculations show that the number of people affected by this, as I said, by mechanical automatic limitation of the maximum annual basis for pension and pension contributions, amounts to around 350 thousand. In relative numbers, it is a group of persons below 2% of the total of persons subject to pension and pension insurance. The consequence of the abolition of the limitation of the maximum annual basis for pension and pension contributions will be the increase, the increase in pension and pension benefits of persons who will in the future fulfil the conditions for acquiring the right to adequate pension and pension benefits. Of course, the draft law is accompanied by an impact assessment of the regulation, including in this impact assessment of the regulation we pay attention to the consequences of the proposed legal solutions, the consequences also for the public finance system. If this is the will of the High House, I will be happy to answer any questions about the consequences of this regulation in the discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u155	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure and the honour to refer to the government bill amending the Social Security Act and some other laws on behalf of my Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. For starters, I wanted to say that the decision to make this project is very, very brave. Yesterday, at the beginning of the Sejm's meeting, there were formal requests to take this project down, false thesis that the Government of Law and Justice is raising taxes. [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Fees.]] [[It's basically fake.]] And here's a completely different situation. After the introduction of this law - and I hope that this will happen - tax revenue will even fall. Unfortunately, revenue will also fall when it comes to local governments that are involved in income taxes. And that's why it's going to happen, because the principle that most people introduced in 1999... This principle has been in place since 1999. The point is that we deduct contributions first, and taxes are levied on this reduced basis. That is why this amount of taxes that has been paid, when someone hires a person who has benefited from 30 times this amount, has been higher. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Poles can't see...]] Now they will fall, but they will fall only for the benefit of those insured, those future pensioners. As I said, the genesis of this thirty times is to amend the laws in 1998. The laws have entered into force since January 1999. As far as that philosophy is concerned about changes in the social security and pension system, contrary to what was said, pensioners would have so high pensions that they would rest under the palm trees, everything was done the other way around. The insurance and pension rules have been introduced in such a way as to redirect the money of those richer people, those who have the money, to the third pillar. It's called putting money aside, giving money to private companies. At the same time, income has been reduced to the Social Insurance Fund, which means that pensions of future generations will be flattened, will be lower. And that's what's happening today, because pensions are getting lower and lower in the new way, and they're not very high in pensions. And then it was also made sure that people who had a lot of money didn't take everything back to the Social Insurance Fund, just to redirect it to the other way. That's why I'm very happy that today we're dealing with this 30-fold limitation, and I just wanted to say that, for example. This year, this 30 times is almost 128,000. zł. Let us be aware that this applies only to those who have very, very high earnings, who earn almost PLN 10 700 who... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I wonder if they will have 40,000 later. pensions, too.]] Madame, maybe if you have time, you will speak. Now I'm gonna take the floor and let you finish my speech. This applies only to a small group of people - people who earn nearly PLN 10 700 on average. But it is also very important that this law, if it comes into force, simplifies the lives of all - and employers, and those insured, and the Social Insurance Institution. Because today, the thirty times that was determined... That doesn't mean that in one place someone makes that kind of money, but they had to monitor what it's like for all employers, who are the ones who make good money, and we know that many people work in different places. It was very difficult, but it was just such technical difficulties. After years, the insurance company had dealt with it. But it's cool. It's good that it's not gonna happen again. The important thing is that we abolish the restriction that the bill abolishes the limitation on deductions for these two insurances: pensions and pensions, i.e. those for which contributions are paid to our individual accounts. Because it has been introduced since 1999 that each insured person has an individual account. Today, less money will flow to the State Treasury for taxes, where you can get this money [[♪ The bell ♪]] to separate, and to a greater extent they will be targeted - for a particular insured person, who, if he makes a lot of money today, will be able to expect that his pension in the future will be higher than the one offered by the AWS government, unfortunately. I'm really glad this project came through. On behalf of the club, I request further investigation of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u156	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Frydrych. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u157	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the Government draft law amending the Social Security System Act 1974. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The current rules state that the annual basis for the assessment of pension contributions in a given calendar year may not be higher than the amount corresponding to 30 times the estimated average remuneration in the national economy for the calendar year concerned. The proposed bill aims to eliminate this upper limit. This means that if a person's income exceeds that amount, it will continue to receive contributions to pension and pension insurance, which will translate into a lower net remuneration. This also means that employers will bear higher employment costs for such people. Does the government not see the risk that both employees and employers will be strongly motivated to avoid paying increased contributions? Such a solution will not encourage the employment of professionals in the context of employment relationships, especially in the environment of new technologies and high competences. The abolition of the upper limit on pension and pension contributions will reduce the social security deficit briefly, but in the future will significantly increase it, increasing the imbalances in income and expenditure of the Social Insurance Fund. If pensions are calculated on the basis of the existing provisions, taking into account the elimination of the pension base ratio of 250%, expenditure from the Social Insurance Fund will also increase. If the number of pensioners is increasing, while the number of workers is falling, how will you guarantee a balance between revenue and expenditure? [[Development.]] Minister, will you therefore sign a commitment, contract or guarantee that you will not immediately introduce legislation that says that each pension will amount to PLN 1000 and that, in order to receive it, you should have e.g. 15 or 20 years insurance period? Minister, the cost of reducing the retirement age is PLN 55 billion over 5 years, and in 2026 the Social Insurance Fund may run out of PLN 109 billion. The government assumes that as a result of the increase in pension and pension contributions to the Social Insurance Fund, more than 5 billion more will be expected next year. Do you want to punish people for your expertise, your hard work, your skills and your responsibility by taking their money to patch up the hole you've dug? Minister, the pension system should be stable, and you should know that in particular. Changes should be made very rarely. Each person starting a job shall meet with the State on a specific basis. If a country makes sudden and frequent changes, the citizen's confidence in you is disappearing. The sense of stability and security is also disappearing because the government is not predictable. Finally, I have one more question. Has this project been discussed in the Social Dialogue Council? Not that I know of. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club requests that the bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u158	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to print No. 1974, i.e. the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws. We're gonna start with a strong statement that the ZUS is dead, and we're gonna bring this dead guy another IV to pull for a few more years. Without a thorough reform of the social security system There is no way that the ZUS will eventually, sooner or later, fail, and the costs and effects of this will be felt by all Poles. That's one important thing. On the other hand, I must say: chapeau bass, Minister. You're doing some kind of strategic masterpiece, because, on the one hand, you want to take more to the ZUS, but on the other hand, to pick up weapons or actually arguments for criticism, you propose to extend the period of so-called. a small ZUS from 2 to 3 years, which is hard to criticize, although e.g. "Solidarity criticizes that. As far as the idea of extending the period of the small ZUS from 2 to 3 years is concerned, this is an idea that definitely deserves support, because it is simply simple banditism that small entrepreneurs, those who start business, pay for a good day 1200 or about 1200 PLN for ZUS with their already earned money. Therefore, this proposal should be supported. On the other hand, with regard to the abolition of the limit, which, once the income of 30 times the national average has been achieved, is already exempted from paying contributions to the Social Security Office, it is so problematic that... In fact, in my view - not only my own, but also in the opinion of many of our fellow Members at the Kukiz club15 - this is a simple moneyjump. In the very justification of this project, in the so-called. OSR, you are pointing out that perhaps 80 billion in 10 years you want to increase your income from these contributions, because the absence of a limit will in theory mean an increase in these contributions. Beautifully you calculate different predictions, statistics, what will be the increase in the level of wages, etc. But I think you're forgetting one important thing: this project is about people who make the most money, the richest. Here I will divide them into two spheres: those who are in the public sphere and from this public sphere cannot come out, as for example. Members, officials and others... [[Voice from the Chamber: The Members are not concerned.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. However, there is still a large group of people who work in the so-called. It's a private matter. If you lift this limit for them - they will have to pay the Social Security Office also above this limit, which today allows them not to pay the Social Security Office after reaching a certain level - these people will simply switch to other forms of employment. The simplest form of employment is so-called. management contract: the person conducts one-man business activity, pays 1200 zł on ZUS and then... [[And honesty?]] Mr President, honesty... Well, that's another question. [[But that's an acceptable law. That's not fair?]] On the other hand, if this is allowed by law, many people benefit from it. Gentlemen, don't argue. You're gonna have a fight in a minute. And now, Minister, the question is: I understand that this ZUS needs to be saved, but why so little steps? Why are we not talking about a thorough reform of this system? Besides, there's another question. This is where I'm going to go back to that little ZUS, Three years, for small entrepreneurs. Minister, this is a bow towards the so-called. micro-entrepreneurs, agree, and that's okay, but what about the project - not so long ago presented as a flag - so-called. ZUS not only for new entrepreneurs, but for those small ones who have small revenues? This project's gone somewhere. He was well represented and vanished. So I ask: Where did this project go? Yet another point, it is about some kind of future direction. Perhaps it is worthwhile for you to start analyzing, if you have not already done so, other pension systems, e.g. Australian, because at this point, if we are to abolish the payment limit for the Social Security Office, it will also mean that there will be no limit on the level of those pensions that will be paid. The question is, is that right? And here again we will address honesty. Some say yes and others say no. But whether it is right for people who are going to pay horrendous amounts of money for the Social Security Office today, then they will receive pensions in such a horrendous amount and whether the state or state [[♪ The bell ♪]] The successors will not rob these people in the future, saying to them, "You have paid much, but will you still get little?" Thank you very much. [[They'll pay for citizenship.]] [[You're right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u160	Thank you. Mrs Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This bill is, let's say, nothing more than a new PiS plan, how to get money out of the pockets of Poles, [[Applause]] in the amount of 5.5 billion new zlotys. Tell the Poles that you are simply introducing a new tax threshold, and do not tell them that you are lowering taxes, taxes, however much the PiS lady tried to tell us, because in the end, when she comes to paying 40 thousand pensions, you will tell them that the US is insolvent and you will offer a citizen's pension of PLN 1000. And it's gonna be nothing more than putting them in a bottle and robbing them of their own money, because downloading higher fees to the Social Security Office today is nothing more than getting credit from citizens that you might want to pay back in the future and maybe not. That's what we've learned from experience with OFE, and that's what we've learned from other experiences that we've learned from our mom's PiS. You just brought it in, lowered your retirement age without a source of funding. That's what I told you from that speaker a few months ago. Today, paralyzed, in haste, you're looking for billions of zlotys, you're thinking of where to get them next year, and so you're jumping on citizens' money. Unfortunately, summa summarum ends in the fact that the most earners from part of their salary will pay 52% for taxes and fees, 52% I mean, more of their wages are to pay you back than it's gonna stay in their pockets. What does that mean? It's like the PiS government is just telling citizens... [[That's not true.]] ...it's not worth working harder, it's not worth trying harder... [[Right.]] ...in our best jobs in the labour market, because we're gonna take your money anyway, [[Applause]] In this regard, it is best for you to go to unemployment. That's what you're telling the citizens today. [[It's a premium and a tax.]] This is a ridiculous situation that today, the bill after the bill, one citizen extends pension rights by offering them a quicker retirement, and then you say to the other citizens: give us money for these early retirement pensions, for this reduced retirement age. It's absurd. This is an unfair behaviour of the state towards the citizen. [[Applause]] [[It wasn't fair how limited it was. One had, the other didn't.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will see, and I am telling you this once again from this speaker, what the future will be like. There's less money going to the state budget because citizens are tired of putting them in a bottle. What are they gonna do? They'll change the form of employment. And every smart Pole who earns well in Poland should do this - change the form of employment, [[Applause]] pay you a linear tax of 19% and a small ZUS from the minimum basis that entrepreneurs have. [[Go around the law.]] [[Your prophecies won't work.]] [[Modern aesthetics.]] The disturbing signals that come from the government also concern plans to liquidate OFE. This is another point where you show how much you lack money for early retirement. 5.5 billion is in today's bill. What are you guys up to? Jumping to OFE contributions of more than PLN 3 billion, because what else is telling citizens: are we closing OFE? Maybe we'll give you some of that money, maybe not, because we're dragging a rope between Minister Rafalska and Prime Minister Morawiecki, and maybe it'll be 75%. Maybe 25, we'll see, maybe not at all. And I say it's not true. You owe them, you have to give it back, 100%. That money at the OFE. [[Applause]] And that is your duty to the citizens. But what are you saying? You haven't got much yet. [[Just like the platform gave it away.]] You say, "Ofe, we'll kill you, maybe we'll pay you back, maybe not, but in exchange for that, we'll tell you: Open up your Employee Capital Plans. But what do you say next? You say, "But we'll give you money for it." Put it away from your own salary, because we'll take the contributions that today affect the OFE, take them to the ZUS, finance new pension privileges for the Marshal's Guard and other groups that you try to buy in this way. What do you say next? We'll finance a reduction in retirement age, and if you want, you can pay yourself 2% of your pension contribution additionally from your salary, and your employer will add 1.5% to your salary. - because employers are a favorite element for draining wallets under the Law and Justice - and then maybe you'll put it off for a decent retirement, because today we say to you, "We won't give it to you." So what's the PiS government doing today? He's lying to Poles. We've heard these ridiculous things about him lowering taxes, and he's actually pulling out billions of zlotys. Today 5.5, in a moment 3 [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're gonna expect the citizens to get their own retirement money in the end. The Modern Club is unable to support such projects. I request that the project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u162	Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u163	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws, print No 1974. Ladies and gentlemen! For 2 years Poles and Poles have been struggling with the so-called government. It's a good change. For 2 years, the so-called political camp. A good change feeds our compatriots promises without covering, cheats and moms. There's still a raise to that today. The fruits of economic growth, which fortunately is happening for PiS, are not fairly divided, because the only thing PiS has in common with justice is a member of its name. You lied and lied, and today you raise taxes quietly. You want Poles to pay more, among other things. For the water. Those who have insurance at PZU are already paying higher contributions. But it's no wonder Mrs Sadurska's million-dollar salary, your friend, isn't gonna get kicked out of the ground. The same applies to the joyful work of comrade Jasinski. Once the PZPR, today in Orlena - probably as a reward for the fact that in 2006 he negotiated us the most expensive gas contract. [[He's gonna pay his dues. He's not getting away.]] It is thanks to him that we pay so much for gas, sir. Today Mr. Jasinski is also doing well in quotes. [[And you don't remember your CEO?]] He better explain why Orlen loses serious tenders in his reign. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a lot of it today, but there are many indications that you want to reach into the pockets of Poles for more money, 5 billion PLN each. That's what you're hoping to gain from this project. Question: "Why?" In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, will you support the PSL project and pay the pensioners allowances of PLN 500? For the time being, you are pursuing a disastrous pension policy. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, you have raised the retirement age for farmers. Secondly, the withdrawal of your reforms from a few years ago resulted in a reduction in pensions. And the third step, which is maybe a good one, but only if the money actually goes to pensioners, not to the next Misiewicz or Pisiewicz. [[Voice from the room: Bury.]] I have a few more questions, Minister. Will the change proposed by you not affect the imbalance in the Social Insurance Fund, not aggravate the problem? What kind of recipes do you have to make sure that doesn't happen? Isn't the change you're proposing gonna cause a mass exodus to run away from the new employees' fees for self-employment? What ideas do you have for this not to happen? And most importantly: Will those who are getting the lowest pensions today really benefit from this change? I hope you will explain, ladies and gentlemen, these nuances in the course of further work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No, I hope not.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u164	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list and ask a question? There you go, Mr Nobleman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the list. Please ask me to ask you a question. Mr Adam Abramovich will be the first to speak. Time - 1 minute. Ladies and gentlemen, we are quite late if we take into account the time when the votes start, so please follow the time to ask the question. Please, Mr Abramovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The insurance system in Poland and the contributions to this system are degressive. More is paid by those who have low income, less is paid by you on very large incomes. In addition, this system makes it impossible to conduct business activities to some extent, it is a lump sum contribution to the Social Security Office in the case of people whose income is less than PLN 1300. Of course, this is very bad, and it needs to be changed. This system is the biggest killer of jobs in Poland. Minister, I have been fighting for years to make a flat-rate contribution to the Social Security Office in the case of a small business activity abolished and to introduce a proportional contribution. The government is preparing a project to change this system precisely for small entrepreneurs whose revenues are up to 5 000. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When this project goes on...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u166	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u167	...when we change the system the way we're changing it now, so that it's not degressive, also in relation to small companies...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u168	I would like to ask you a question, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u169	...who want to do business in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u170	Thank you, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I see that Minister Rafalska has hidden behind a bench somewhere - I don't see her - so as not to company this outrageous bill. [[There's the Deputy Minister.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What with this law PiS will take from the contributions of richer Poles who earn more than 10,000. each month, the next governments will have to pay them back in a high amount of up to 40,000. Zloty, pensions. The current government wanted to obtain PLN 5 billion by changing these contributions, because it lacks funds to cover the needs of the 500+ programme and other electoral promises. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, this is short-sightedness and lack of responsibility for future generations. Where's the ZUS gonna get the money for that? 50 billion PLN is already missing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u172	Thank you. Mrs Halina Szydleko. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a brief question about the scope of the proposed change. In particular, how many people will be affected by this change? My second question: What does it look like in other legal systems, in other countries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u174	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill was presented very late and is being processed at a very rapid pace, without any public consultation process being carried out. The proposed law introduces very important changes for both workers and employers. Labour costs are increasing. Such projects should be notified in advance in order to enable the parties to refer to the proposed changes and to work together to develop the best solutions for the Polish labour market. Unfortunately, the predictability of the current government is none. The speed of the change and the lack of consultation means to undermine Poland's credibility as a place of investment placement. Hence the questions. What's the hurry? Why does the government increase the tax wedge without proper consultation? According to the government, employers should therefore [[♪ The bell ♪]] plan your budgets? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u176	Thank you, Member. Mr Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum of the proposed amendment states: The social security system is an element of the state which most efficiently and in the most forceful way realizes the ideals of social solidarity. Therefore, it is not entirely understandable that contributions to pension and pension insurance are paid up to a certain ceiling of annual earnings, up to a certain amount of 30 times the forecast average monthly salary in the national economy. This limitation on the one hand results in a flattening of pensions, reduces them in the case of better insured, but on the other hand reduces their contribution to the Social Insurance Fund. The abolition of the above mentioned reduction in the payment of contributions will therefore result in a greater impact on the Social Insurance Fund, i.e. our common cashier, but at the same time affect the amount of benefits paid from this fund. And questions. How will this affect the welfare fund? How much is the increase in revenue estimated and how much is the increase in future expenditure? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It was in the explanatory note.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u178	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The PiS government panicked because, on the one hand, you found that you had to fulfil to some extent the flagship promise to lower the retirement age, and on the other hand you clearly noticed that the budget hole, or actually the hole in the ZUS, which will arise in connection with this, is unbelievable. So what do we do? We've got to make a money heist. Who? Well, of course, those who work hardest for the development of the Polish economy, Polish civil society, who bring the most to the common cash register, which later maintains the entire pension system... Mr. Marshal cut my mic off?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u180	I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u181	Now you're gonna have to count me in. [[He turns himself off when he's lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u182	Please. I'll add it up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u183	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! That's why my questions are like this. First of all... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't we turn it off because it's bothering us a little?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u184	It's gonna shut down. [[It's stressful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u185	It's stressful. Once the marshal shuts me down, twice he turns my signal on. Well, it's hard to even focus on what you're saying. [[It's a waste of time.]] So, yeah. Minister, how do you predict this, then: How many people, the best earners, will go to contract agreements to limit excessive payment of contributions, so to speak? How many employers are gonna force their contractors to approach the issue of form of employment in this way? How is this really gonna affect the influence you're so hoping for? One more question. When are you going to introduce this citizen's pension so that you don't give away the money that you're going to take from Poles in this very bad change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u186	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz. [[It's not looting, ma'am.]] [[It's just looting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to remind the High House that this is the second project on the same case, because the first was submitted by the Law and Justice Club in 2013. Then you rejected him after a very long debate and after a long reflection, explaining that pensions would be too high. So I ask the Minister today because not everyone earns more than 10,000 throughout their working lives, but there are periods of unemployment and very low income - I can tell you how this is going to be - how high pensions will be due to the collection of contributions from the entire salary. My second question is whether the government provides for educational action so that people don't talk about stealing anymore, so they don't pay for the Social Security Office, just so they don't pay for the small Social Security Office, because then [[♪ The bell ♪]] There'll be a social worker's allowance, or just a soup in Caritas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u188	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Questions for the Minister. With regard to the extension of the so-called period. small ZUS from 2 to 3 years: When exactly will you introduce your project, already presented, in which you are talking about 50 PLN of contributions to ZUS for every 800 PLN of revenue? That's the first question. When, specifically, because it's gone somewhere. The second question is this. Have you considered increasing this limit? With the limitation of this small nominally ZUS to entrepreneurs with income below 5 thousand. zł, actually this is going to be about people who are involved in some very small trade or small crafts. Are you not really able to make a bow towards entrepreneurship of Poles, perhaps also encourage those who are still living in Germany or the UK today, i.e. To remove these barriers of ZUS to encourage our fellow countrymen to return to Poland and take up work here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u190	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's too bad it's only a minute. It's a subject that... And then there's this discussion... I'm short. I would like to ask the Minister because, listening, I wonder who we're talking about, who this bill is really about - because it doesn't touch, it doesn't even touch. We're talking about paying the entire fee. A simple question, a little provocative: Is in this group 350 thousand. best earning citizens, 2% The kind of people who are so sorry about, for example, the parliamentarians, the vice-ministers? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No.]] That's right, hard bills, let's say. The fact that Modern and Platform have always defended the richest, we know, but at this point, to speak so disrespectfully of these people? This is the nation's elite. Why in Germany, France, Sweden, in Europe, do people with high wages pay and do not perform such performances? And you instruct and even say from this place what you have to do to circumvent the law, to escape the responsibilities of every decent citizen. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: With the additions of the PiS it may cross, but not with us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u192	Thank you. And Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u193	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Relationship agents represent employees, not just union workers, and they know what they're doing, and they know how to take care of workers. Therefore, the question. Mr. Minister, Solidarity has criticised this project, claiming that it favours self-employment. How will the Minister deal with this charge? And second question: Minister, is it true that POs and PSL raised their retirement age and lowered their pension rate? Now the PiS has reduced retirement age, but has not raised the rate, and pensioners instead of a decent pension receive crumbs from your table, and young people, as they see initial capital, are terrified, afraid that they will later find it difficult to live in retirement, that they will get such pennies, instead of living properly in retirement, and for these decades of work to go on vacation, to rest at least. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u194	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow. Mr Romecki did not add that the best holiday in Szczecin Pomerania. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: To Koszalin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The abolition of the upper limit on pension and pension contributions is an increase in labour costs for employers and workers with a significant amount of PLN 5.4 billion. Will such actions not adversely affect the level of wages of the most educated Poles? Will they not adversely affect the ability to acquire high-end specialists? Will they encourage Poles with high competences to return from abroad? Why is the government putting in place solutions that will keep wages low or flee to the grey zone? Has the government thought this through? Does that make sense? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u196	Thank you, Member. And Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject, which I will raise, has already been taken up several times today, but Minister, this is a very important issue. Did the Ministry, when preparing this bill, take into account the mentally acceptable tax amounts? Just look at all research from recent years, what is the awareness of Poles about paying taxes, what they are spent on, whether Poles believe that these benefits, above all social, not so much taxes as social benefits... Do they know how they will be able to pick them up in the future? First of all, an acceptable rate. Mr Cymanski spoke about the fact that we here, from this speaker, are immediately proposing to move to the grey zone or to look for other solutions. [[We suggest.]] Mr President, please note. Can't you see the difference in acceptance of 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%... [[We're no worse than strangers: French, Germans, Finns.]] ... 70% , sir? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's take this into account, because if the objective is to increase revenue in the budget, then I think this bill, I'm sure, will have the opposite consequences. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u198	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The law itself, but also its authors, should be subject, ladies and gentlemen, to the decoy bill. It should be subject to the decounization law. Why? Because the laws of this law apologue communism. [[Read about communism.]] It was in communism, if someone was more active, if someone was moving forward, making more money, then the state was harassing him, [[Applause]] so you want to do it now with those people who are active, who care about the economy, who are engaged in the development of a country that pays taxes. And now you're gonna take away more than they're gonna get after paying that tax. It was only in communism that things were like that. [[And in Scandinavia, Germany, France.]] Really, ladies and gentlemen, step away from this project because these things in a civilized world are not done, really. I have a question, Minister: Is it true that download now [[♪ The bell ♪]] higher tax, higher tax in the form of ZUS contributions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u200	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u201	...makes it necessary to pay higher pensions in the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u202	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Now we know who's gonna pay to lower pension thresholds, age thresholds. The best earning Poles will pay. And it's not that they make the best money, it's that these are the train horses of the country's socio-economic development. In a situation where your government says it's about an innovative high-tech economy, you're funding a giant demotivator. You're jumping to change your employer's labor costs, and you're jumping to change your income on the part of those who make that money. Why is there no opinion of social dialogue partners in Poland, no opinion of employers' organisations? After all, they would tell you something about changing the relationship between the employer and the employer because of this, even though the B2B formulas, which is business-to-business, are being disseminated. Why didn't you ask the local government that this bill is collecting 600 million? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Traditionally, a completely new standard, opinions after first reading. Well, this is crazy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u204	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u205	One more word: PiS - populism and socialism. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u206	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Kobyliński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u207	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! I'll address Mr. Abramowicz and Mr. Grabowski, who were asking when this Social Security Office will be introduced proportionally. Well, it won't be. In response to my interpellation and several other Members, Minister Morawiecki said that no and no more. That's not gonna happen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No. It won't be, and it's an official letter. It won't. So as usual, they say one thing, the other they do. Here was Mrs Hrynkiewicz, who said to one group: let them go. So you're doing exactly the same thing when it comes to the next social group, and this time it's the best earner, the most entrepreneurial people. They may not leave, but they will change their form of employment. And I ask you here to decency, sir, not to refer to it, because it has nothing to do with it. They have the right to change the form of employment and earn as much as they want if it's... [[They're no worse than the Germans, the French...]] But don't interrupt me. ...if it's legal. It'll be legal. You're gonna fire the baby with the bath, and you're not gonna get $5 billion on the plus side. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But 5 billion on the downside. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u208	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. I ask Mr Tadeusz to stop his emotions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's good to know what you're talking about when you say it. Now you're talking about the Scandinavian example. [[Yes, sir.]] I've quickly prepared the average income of the inhabitants, e.g. Norway: electrician - 38,000, nurse - 42,000. Of course, we're talking about crowns. Cleaner, 29,000. crowns. These are average wages in Norway. If it translates into Polish terms, it turns out that the cleaning lady in Norway earns about 13 and 14 thousand. zł. When we get to that level of income, then pick up the Poles. Today you don't help the economy grow, you don't make... [[She's growing weird on her own.]] ...nothing you help entrepreneurs to increase productivity in Polish companies, you do not encourage Poles to work harder. What, then, do you encourage on the other hand? You encourage them to live on benefits, and you tell them that they're going to raise children for 500+. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we get to the standard of living in Norway, then compare...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u210	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u211	...it's for tax collection like in Norway. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: It hurts.]] [[Voice from the room: It didn't hurt. What are you doing with what you're...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u212	Please take the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Why is this project so quickly being examined and not presented for discussion in the Council of Social Dialogue? Finally, the pension system is to be based on stability, predictability, as is the economic and legal system in Poland. Then why such a haste? Why it was suddenly inserted, it will be converted very quickly and implemented very quickly. If you want to reduce the FUS deficit, you will reduce it, yes, but at the expense of the next few years, because in the future you will have to pay out this money, there will be an increase in imbalances between pensioners who earn less and those who will earn more, and this will lead to a negation in general of the functioning of such a system. Because it's unimaginable for pensions to be 2,000. PLN and 40,000. zł. The negation will be very easy to carry out. Minister Morawiecki said that you want new, attractive jobs to be created in Poland so that they are super-rewarded to be high-quality specialists. Only that such a policy does not encourage the creation of such jobs. This unpredictable economic policy, increasing labour costs discourages investment and discourages investment in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to work when it comes to people like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u214	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I have this question: Do you plan to limit the maximum pension that would result from the calculation? I can expect you to answer, of course not. But what I want to say is that on 16 December 2016, you introduced a law that not only limited, but also greatly reduced the pensions that you had fully worked out, from the accrued capital, to a reduction in those pensions to the level of 2 000. zł. In the same way, in view of this, you can deal with those who today have a much higher income, who may have to pay pensions in the future in the order of 20, 30,000. or higher amounts. Isn't there going to be such a movement on the part of the Law and Justice - I hope, of course, that you will not rule - that you will reduce the maximum pension ceiling to 10,000. Evil? Thank you very much. [[Like a prophet, like logic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u216	Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you to confirm that symmetry will be maintained, i.e. the payment of the contribution will later be paid. The fact that we have a defined contribution system indicates that this should be the case. And to those who refer to communism here, let me remind you that at that time the contribution was paid on the total salary, while the payment of benefits was limited. Thank you. [[For the last 28 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u218	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblechta.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the debate, during the speech by the Club Member of the Platform, she asked whether the Government of Law and Justice would have money to pay pensions of 40,000. zł. Therefore, I would like to ask the question: In what circumstances could such a person get such a high pension? How many years would she have to pay those contributions? So this is a very hypothetical case of achieving such a high pension. Public opinion is being empathized that, after many years, we want to lead to a situation of insolvency with the funds of the Social Security Office of very high pensions. On the other hand, in the speech of the PSL representative, we heard that Law and Justice raised the retirement age for farmers. And explain to the Minister, Minister, that this is the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the transition to early agricultural retirement, not this basic retirement age for all social groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u220	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. That is why I ask you to take the floor of Minister Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were many statements in the discussion, many questions were asked. I will try to respond to most of the topics that have emerged in the discussion. I think that such an important element of the discussion or an important element that should appear in the discussion is the precise definition of who this draft law is referring to, i.e. for whom this threshold of thirty times is removed. [[Applause]] I think that the amount in force in 2017 should appear in the discussion, i.e. the amount of PLN 127 890, and the number of persons who exceed this threshold should once again appear, i.e. 350,000 or less than 2% insured in the general scheme. In the debate, representatives of the opposition asked whether the solution we propose in this bill was a fair solution. So let me ask you, is it fair, then, that people who earn revenues of up to PLN 127 890 per year pay contributions from all their income, and those who exceed this threshold, suddenly, are mechanically exempt from this obligation. [[Applause]] This is probably the essence of the dispute that emerged during this discussion. [[It's very customary.]] You are asking whether you question whether the pension system is stable, what are the guarantees of the stability of the social security system in Poland. There is no better guarantee of the stability of the social security system in Poland, including the pension system, than an orderly, stable labour market. It can therefore be said that what we are currently seeing on the labour market - a fall in unemployment, an increasing level of average wage, an increasing allocation of social security contributions - is the best guarantee that the system is and if these conditions continue to be met, will continue to be a stable system. Let me remind you that we are in a period in which we have reached an unlisted level of coverage from social security contributions. This is close to 80%. [[Applause]] [[They can't accept that.]] It's the same situation... You have asked a question about the relationship between the decision to restore the retirement age in force by the end of 2012, the decision that has taken, can be said, the power from 1 October 2017 and the proposal which is being discussed today by the bill amending the social security system. I want to say, because this is actually a good time to make this first period so-called. pension shares or pension peaks in a sense sum up that these black scenarios, which were presented during the discussion about the draft law that restored the retirement age back then, did not work out and did not work out. Already today, expenditure on pension arrangements and payments to persons whose retirement age has been restored since 1 October 2017 is 0.5 billion lower than estimated. [[Applause]] As for the other themes that appeared in the discussion, you have asked several times whether we do not see a certain risk that may be linked to the phenomenon of fleeing from this higher basis of the pension and pension contributions. I want to make it clear that this solution is addressed to all categories of insured persons. This is not a solution that will apply only to one selected category of insured persons, e.g. employees. This solution is addressed to all categories of insured persons whose pension and pension premium base exceeds 30 times the average monthly salary during a given calendar year. In the group of people we are talking about, in this group, 350 thousand. we have people who are above the threshold, both those who are employed in the context of the employment relationship and those who are engaged in the work under civil law agreements, as well as those who are engaged in non-agricultural activities. Of course, we are aware that we are talking about those who have the highest qualifications, so they are higher than average, you can say, the ability to adapt to the new legal situation, right? We are also paying attention to this in the impact assessment of the regulation. Several questions concerned the issue of public consultation. Thus, this consultation takes place exactly from 26 October, because I personally addressed the bill to the social partners, to representative trade union organisations, to representative employers' organisations, also to the Social Dialogue Council. [[Two weeks? Minister...]] The first opinions are already affecting today. Next week there will be a meeting of the Social Security Team of the Social Dialogue Council, there will be an opportunity for discussion. [[Before the procession, we had to discuss it.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask that you continue to proceed with this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u222	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current provisions of the Social Insurance Act limit the annual basis for pension and pension contributions of 30 times the average salary. On the one hand, this limits the contributions, but on the other hand it reduces the flattening of pensions. It is estimated that this situation concerns about 350 thousand in Poland. the people who make the best money. The project we are debating is to abolish these limits. The contribution to the Social Insurance Fund will be deducted from the total revenue. According to the analysis carried out, the financial impact on public finances will generally be positive, with time of course decreasing. My question concerns the impact of the proposed changes on the income of local government units and the National Health Fund: What will be the scale of the reduction in revenues to these entities in the coming years?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u224	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws. In the proposed law, the upper limit of the pension and pension contributions is to be abolished from 2018 onwards. From this point on, the premium will be deducted from the total revenue. These changes will increase the proceeds to the Social Insurance Fund and increase the contribution to the Demographic Reserve Fund and the amount of contributions to open pension funds. In turn, health insurance and income tax revenues will decrease. The legal act will make the financial situation of local governments worse, but the situation of Poles will definitely improve. It is we who will all experience changes in the calculation of new pensions. The changes introduced will make Poles more solidarity with each other. I am convinced that better-cased people should pay their pension and pension contributions off their full earnings, because it is simply more fair. This will give them the possibility of receiving a higher pension in the future. This is particularly important for those who receive or receive income in their working lives at different levels. Nor can we underestimate the social solidarity aspect of the bill. This project is another example of government action that takes care of the poorest, which constantly improves the situation of those who have failed in their lives. The Free and Solidarnia Circle will always support such actions and laws that promote solidarity and help poorer members of society.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u225	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Trade Union Act and some other laws (print No 1933). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a government bill amending the Trade Union Act and some other laws, print No 1933. The main objective of the proposed amendments is to extend the scope of the right to establish and join trade unions in order to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015, the signature of Act K 1/13. Freedom to establish trade unions is guaranteed in Article. 12 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland and with the freedom of trade unions is one of the basic features of our country's system. This fundamental guarantee develops and concreteizes the article. 59 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which ensures freedom of association in trade unions, provides for fundamental rights of trade unions, and establishes the principle of limitation of the right to coalition. It should also be indicated that in accordance with Article. 2 Convention No 87 of the International Labour Organisation on Freedom of Association and Protection of Trade Union Rights, adopted in San Francisco on 9 July 1948, workers and employers without any distinction shall have the right, without prior authorisation, to create organisations at their discretion and to join them, subject to compliance with their statutes. This Convention has been ratified by Poland and therefore in accordance with Article. 87. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is a source of universal law in Poland. This justifies the need to amend the Polish Trade Union Act in order to implement both the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015 and to adapt its provisions to international standards. The proposed amendments aim at a full union coalition, i.e. the right to set up and join trade union organisations, all those who work for remuneration, regardless of the basis of employment, which may fall within the category of workers on constitutional and international grounds. The amendment of the law aims to enable the creation and entry of trade unions, in particular those carrying out work on the basis of civil law contracts, such as contract of order, contract of service or contract of works, and persons carrying out single-person business activities, carrying out work for the entity under contract. The work centre has consulted the project twice, in particular with representative trade union organisations and employers' organisations. During the drafting of the bill, the proposed solutions were also the subject of work in the framework of the Social Dialogue Council on Labour Law, as well as many meetings and discussions on the subject. However, the social partners failed to reach consensus on the proposed changes and as a result the decision on their final shape was on the government's side. However, we have been looking for solutions that would take into account the voice of the social partners, while at the same time providing workers with the opportunity to protect their rights and interests. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2 June 2015, which constitutes the basis for the amendments, it should be borne in mind that the Constitutional Court, in its explanatory memorandum, indicated that freedom of association in the trade unions referred to in Article. 59 (1) (a) 1 of the Constitution shall be entitled to any employee within the constitutional meaning. In the current legal state, however, the right to establish and join trade unions is not subject to such a wide range. It serves mainly within the meaning of the provisions of the Labour Code. The draft law therefore provides that the right to establish and organise trade unions will benefit those persons who can be regarded as workers within the constitutional meaning. These people have been named people who do work for a living. The person doing the work under the bill is both an employee within the meaning of the Labour Code and a person providing the work for remuneration on a different basis than the employment relationship if it fulfils the following conditions: firstly, he does not employ other persons for such work, regardless of the basis of employment, secondly, he does not bear the economic risk associated with the performance of the work, thirdly, he has such professional interests associated with the performance of the work, which may be collectively protected. I'll give you a brief overview of what each of the above conditions means. As regards the condition of non-employment for this type of work of other persons, it indicates the need to perform a particular type of work personally, i.e. without mediation of other persons, irrespective of what legal relationship such persons would have done their job. As far as the economic risk of activity is concerned, it exists e.g. where the person makes an investment, e.g. for the purchase or rental of appropriate equipment used for the execution of business orders and the materials necessary for the performance of business tasks. If the burden of paying the accounts, the payment of salaries to the auxiliary staff is on a person other than the worker, then there will be grounds to believe that such person bears the economic risk. The existence of contractual penalties for delay or delay in the performance of services or other elements of uncertainty as to the acquisition of income by a person other than a worker engaged in a job may also indicate an economic risk. Thirdly, the existence of such professional interests relating to the performance of work, which may be collectively protected. This condition was distinguished by the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 2 June 2015. Professional interests, which can be protected collectively, are the interests for which trade unions are appointed and not the interests of individual persons engaged in employment. This will concern in particular the interests relating to the development of economic conditions for the performance of work, e.g. payment by employers of remuneration, but also other conditions for its execution, including social benefits, working conditions, issues related to the provision of appropriate facilities to the union organisation. The draft amendment also grants the right to join existing trade unions to volunteers, trainees and other persons who personally provide work without remuneration. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Among the other most important changes to the Act, which are essentially a consequence of extending the right of the union coalition to new entities, include: the introduction of protection mechanisms in the event of unequal treatment due to union membership; the possibility of taking into account, other than employees of workers engaged in employment in the number of persons who are required to obtain the rights of the union organisation, if these persons provide work for at least 6 months to the employer covered by the union organisation; the possibility of including a person belonging to several trade union organisations with the employer concerned only as a member of one of its designated trade union organisations; the introduction of a procedure to verify the number of works of the union organisation; currently, no instruments are available for verifying the figures provided to him by the trade union organisation; with a view to increasing the size of the union organisation due to the extension of the coalition law, it is also proposed to increase the threshold of representativeness for the trade union organisations; these thresholds have been increased from 7% to 8% for organisations forming part of the Social Dialogue Council and their member organisations and of 10% up to 15% for other organisations. The proposed thresholds will strengthen the most representative trade union organisations, which have a stronger mandate and will fully represent the rights and interests of workers. In crisis situations, representative organisations have a decisive vote when making final decisions. Trade union representation means the ability of trade union organisations to act as a representative of workers when more than one trade union organisation seeks to exercise that right. Following the extension of coalition law, it was assumed that new groups of entities entitled to join trade unions should be taken into account when determining the representativeness of the trade union organisation to which they are members. The other most important amendments introduced by the draft law include: granting to persons engaged in employment the right to exemption from work for the time necessary for the performance of ad hoc activities arising from their trade union functions outside the work establishment, if this activity cannot be carried out during their free time; including other than trade union workers, special protection against termination or termination of the contract; granting the possibility of an investigation by a person other than the worker performing the work of 6 months compensation for termination or termination by the employer without obtaining the agreement of the management board of the trade union organisation - however, due to the civil character of the contract for the work, contracts and orders of non-employees, such entitlement has not yet been granted; introducing deadlines for the presentation of the position of the trade union organisation on termination of the contract to a trade union activist 14 days and 7 days in the event of termination of the contract - the existing trade union law did not specify a time limit - in the absence of a trade union organisation's position within a time limit, it is assumed that the trade union organisation has given its consent to the termination or termination of employment with the protected person. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The next objective of the proposed amendment to the Trade Union Act is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 May 2008. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the contested Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2nd Trade Union Act infringes the principle of the definition of criminal law. In view of the guidelines of the Constitutional Tribunal, the proposed regulation was added in Article. 35 of the Trade Unions Act. 2, which shall annul the conduct of persons performing trade union functions by: firstly, not informing the competent court of the changes to the statutes, secondly, by allocating the income from the trade union's activities for purposes not serving the performance of the statutory tasks of the union or sharing it between the members of the union, thirdly, by giving a higher number of members of the trade union organisation than that resulting from the facts in order to obtain the powers of the relevant trade union organisation. In such a case, a fine is imposed for the execution of the above-mentioned offences as a criminal sanction. We also make changes to other laws which result directly from the amendment of the Trade Union Act. We also introduce a 6-month period of vacathio legis, so that both employers and trade unions have the time to adapt to the changes being made. At the same time, by way of exception, the date of entry into force of the proposed Article has been postponed. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 6 Trade Unions Act 12 months from the date of the announcement. The proposed provision provides that when determining the number of persons engaged in employment, from which the 8- and 15-percent threshold for the representativeness of a trade union organisation is calculated, account shall be taken only of those persons engaged in employment which belonged to that organisation for a period of at least 6 months from accession to negotiations or arrangements. As of the date of entry into force of the Act, the scope of the right to create and join trade unions will be extended. There will also be increased representative thresholds for the trade union organisation. In the absence of a reservation as to the extended period of vacathio legis, the provision of Article. 25 In determining the representativeness of the trade union organisation in the period immediately following the date of entry into force of the Act, persons who were not entitled to a trade union coalition until the date of entry into force could not be taken into account and therefore not subject to the condition of at least 6 months of membership of the trade union organisation concerned. This would imply an unjustified differentiation of the legal situation of trade unions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A broad explanation of the changes can be found in the explanatory memorandum of the draft regulation. I ask the High House to proceed with the proposed amendment of the Trade Union Act and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u227	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I would very much like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u228	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I was honoured to present to the High House the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the government draft law amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws, print No 1933. Freedom and association of trade unions enable their members to represent and defend their rights, professional and social interests. Freedom to establish trade unions is guaranteed in Article. 12th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice respects the freedom to create trade unions, believing that the social side is an immanent part of the state's changes in government, and the role played in our history by the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) is invaluable. [[Applause]] The primary objective of the proposed amendments to the Trade Union Act of 23 May 1991 is to extend the scope of the individual right to establish and accede to trade unions in order to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015 and 13 May 2008. An important amendment to the Article. 2 (2) 1 of the Trade Union Act is the full right of the union coalition, i.e. the right to set up and join trade union organisations, all those providing work for remuneration irrespective of the basis of employment. The consequence of the granting of the coalition's right was that of the coalition. it is necessary for persons to amend a number of provisions of the Trade Union Act and appropriate safeguard mechanisms to protect trade union activists and members of trade union organisations from unequal treatment due to union membership or negative consequences due to their function. In the course of the drafting of the bill, any amendments proposed in it were regularly consulted with the social partners, notably within the framework of the problem group on the Labour law of the Social Dialogue Council. The work of the problem team was aimed at defining the problems and concerns that both trade unions and employers' organisations raised and, subsequently, to find ways to resolve them. This well predicts for the future on further work on the bill. At this point, I would like to stress that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło respects the social dialogue that our predecessors, the PO-PSL coalition, have brought to a cumbersome element in communicating, leading to the disintegration of the Tripartite Commission for Social and Economic Affairs, as well as the regional social dialogue committees. In the course of the consultation, the trade union party made a number of comments, a significant part of which was included in this government project. Given that both the Maastricht Treaty and the Amsterdam Treaty have established the principle of excluding trade union association from Community competence, and that neither the European Parliament nor the Council have legislative powers in terms of freedom of association, the subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. It should also be pointed out that the draft regulation does not require notification within the meaning of the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 December 2002. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To sum up the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I request that the Government draft law amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws be submitted for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u229	Thank you. And I would very much like to ask Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a position regarding a government draft law amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws. The project is included in print No 1933. The amendment of the Trade Union Act introduces new rules of action, unfortunately not necessarily thought through. As we can learn from the justification, the planned amendments are the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015, which ruled that Article. 2 Trade Unions Act to the extent that it grants the right to create trade unions only to employees, i.e. persons engaged in employment within the framework of an employment relationship established on the basis of a contract of employment, appointment and appointment are incompatible with the Constitution. As a result of the revision of the Article. 2 (2) 1 of the Act will include a full union coalition law, i.e. the possibility of setting up and joining trade union organisations, all persons providing work for remuneration regardless of the basis of employment. In addition, the draft amendment also implements another judgment of the Constitutional Court, which challenged one of the provisions concerning a fine or a penalty for a limitation of freedom for a function-leader of an activity contrary to the law. The proposed amendments also concern, inter alia, the representativeness of trade union organisations, ad hoc union activities, verification of the size of trade union organisations and other matters not directly implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and far beyond the execution of the judgment. Amendments to the Act are widely commented on by both employers' and trade union representatives. They signal a number of doubts. The employer's reservations relate to the definition of persons engaged in work, as well as the scope of the trade union rights granted to them. They stress the lack of grounds for granting the same trade union privileges to all workers employed. They point out that the amended rules are unclear, they raise interpretation problems, which means that their application will be significantly impeded. Employers also have doubts as to the waiver of the condition of economic dependence and leave only the requirement of a 6-month traineeship for obtaining the rights of an association organisation. The right to negotiate collective agreements, agreements or regulations of the employer will then also be granted to those who carry out occasional orders for companies. Trade union representatives also signalled their comments. They concern mainly illegible and vague terms which may undermine the legality of the association of persons in trade unions. Doubts are raised, among others. to the conditions defining the persons who provide work for remuneration on a different basis than the relationship. They ask who should assess whether a person fulfils the conditions for entering a trade union and on the basis of which data. Taking into account the opinion of trade unions and employers' representatives, it can be concluded that the project is unreliable, recklessly prepared, that it is underdeveloped and requires a number of adjustments. Its adoption in the proposed form could lead to chaos due to the implementation of inconsistent rules. However, the Civic Platform calls for the project to be redirected to further work. If no appropriate amendments are made, we will request that the proposal be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u231	Thank you, Member. And I would ask Mr Jarosław Porwich to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u232	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Trade Union Act and some other laws, print No 1933. Contrary to expectations, there is no madness, although the project contains some interesting solutions. It introduces the possibility of setting up and joining trade union organisations by all those who personally provide work for remuneration regardless of the basis of employment. It moves the provisions on the representativeness of the above-the-job and works union organisation of the Labour Code to this law. It introduces solutions dictated by the Constitutional Tribunal's judgments and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation. It amends the rules on representativeness, of which for a number of reasons We need to discuss this. It also introduces that a trade union organisation may also apply on its own initiative to determine the number of members of other trade union organisations. That's very good. Order must be, because very often microscopic union organizations have overnumbered, often in order to use certain privileges unauthorizedly and gain benefits for a narrow group of people. And what interesting solutions are lacking? For example, the introduction of the possibility to deduct income tax contributions from individuals. These issues are dealt with in the case of employers' organisations. They are the costs of the company, Minister. There is also a lack of strengthening of the participation of trade union organisations in transnational federations and trade union confederations, e.g. through the possibility of partial public funding of affiliate contributions, etc. So that the project is going in the right direction in general, but it contains shortcomings that we must eliminate. For example, the draft clarifies the scope of the information which may in particular be the subject of a trade union organisation's request. It goes on, among other things. on working conditions, remuneration rules, economic situation, state, structure and anticipated changes in employment. Very well, but there is no deadline for the employer to provide this information. Thus, it can do so in six months, one year, three years or so. I've never been a saint. You ask to enter a date, for example. 30 days. The project also lacks provisions expected by trade unions and employers to introduce common sense solutions in stress situations, for example. There are dozens or dozens of trade unions in the workplace. That's often a problem. Unfortunately, there is no solution to this project. I'll say it again: there's no madness. The government's draft law requires refinement, because it is vague and vague in certain areas and contains gaps that need to be filled in during the work in the parliamentary committees. That's it at this stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u233	Thank you. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The main objective of the proposed regulation on the extension of union coalition law is clear. It is directly linked to the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2015. It is about granting workers a right to establish and join trade unions. On the other hand, the doubts and reservations raised by this project are the way in which this objective is achieved and the legislative layer of the document, which will certainly make it difficult to apply the law in practice. Thus, the goal is right, but the way it is achieved differs from perfection. The main reservations regarding this draft law are as follows. Firstly, the definition of a person doing a job is very vague. During the work of the Social Dialogue Council's problem team, there was a broad discussion on the definition of a person doing a job, but no consensus was reached on the matter. The definition that you are proposing includes three elements, namely this person: he does not employ other people for work, does not bear economic risks and has professional interests in the performance of his work. I ask the question: Who will interpret these rules? This is a very vague definition and it will be difficult for employers and trade unions to determine whether a person actually meets these criteria or not. The precise definition of such a group is very important because these people will be given the same powers as employees to create their trade unions, which will have full powers. Secondly, it may be difficult to determine whether a trade union organisation has the rights of an establishment. These powers, let us recall, according to the draft law, are granted to an organisation which brings together at least 10 members who are employees of an employer covered by this organisation or other than employees of persons engaged in employment who provide work for at least 6 months for the employer covered by that organisation, except that the draft wording of the provision indicates that this is not just about continuous employment, which, when determining the existence of a status as a work organisation, may make it necessary for the employer to determine the total period of employment also backwards. A similar problem may arise in the case of defining the representativeness of the union organisation, as well as the basis for establishing it. Despite repeated comments from employers' organisations during the work of the problem team, the need to define the ad hoc activity resulting from the union function, which gives certain privileges, for example, has not been taken into account. performing this ad hoc trade union function and collecting remuneration at the same time as the work is carried out. This definition may be abused, and I therefore ask the question of what is its detailed interpretation and how these possible abuses can be eliminated. It is also doubtful whether persons engaged in employment can be subject to special legal protection on the same terms as employees. Such a design seems to be in direct violation of the rules governing the regime of civil law, which is based on the principle of freedom of contract. I would ask you to answer that question. We will certainly submit amendments to this draft law, because the law will create problems for employers alike, it will certainly cost them additional costs as well as for trade unions - problems related to interpretation. Surely this bill will be better able to write. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u235	Mr Krystian Jarubas, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u236	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the first reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Law on Trade Unions and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! We are really starting to work on a fundamental reform from the point of view of trade unions. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015 when the tribunal still functioned as an independent institution is an important basis for this. The Court's judgment makes it clear that not only employees - in terms of employment for employment contracts - but also, here, the quote: other persons engaged in employment work have the right to get together in trade unions. Of course, the devil is as much in the details as ever. It's a precise definition of a person doing a job. In our view, these should be people who have long-term ties with a given company, who are seeking employment, not service providers who are loosely associated with the company. This is very important because such a person should have an impact on the discussion about working conditions and salaries, as well as on determining the conditions for termination of the contract - the issue of protection against dismissal etc. In our view, this is the right direction, because today many companies abuse civil law contracts, especially when it comes to young workers. The worst is when the situation concerns state-owned companies. An excellent example is the Polish Television, which today turned into PiS-owska TV, because it is a propaganda tube of the government instead of a public broadcaster, but the employment rules have not changed. [[We're talking about trade unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment, please. As we protested in our previous term of office against ideas for outsourcing of employees of this institution, so today we note that civil law agreements are still in force in this company on a huge scale. Interestingly, people employed by them often do the same job as those with jobs, they are included on the same schedule. This may result in a strange hybrid, some people use the term "non-retatual worker," such an oxymoron. In this example, one can see the importance of a procedated amendment which improves the quality of the work of people employed in civil law contracts, although of course it does not solve all their problems. Apart from the fact that we are in favour of a firm reduction in civil law contracts for the employment of people, we will support the proposed novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u237	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws. The amendment is due to the need to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015. The main objective of the proposed amendments is to extend the law of the union coalition to persons engaged in work for work not covered by the provisions of Article. 2 (2) 1 Act on Trade Unions, e.g. persons engaged in work on the basis of civil law contracts or self-employed persons. Such an extended scope of the right to create and join trade unions will ensure that the full right of the union coalition is granted to all those who do their work. This is a fundamental change. I believe that extending the scope of the subject matter will have a positive effect in terms of reducing the number of civil law contracts concluded and will translate into an increase in employment into an employment contract, which responds to social expectations. In addition, designers want to introduce a mechanism to verify the number of trade union members. So far, there were no consequences for the failure of the union organisation to provide information on the number of members. According to this project, the failure to provide information on the number of members of the organisation within the required time limit will result in the suspension of the trade union organisation's rights until the obligation has been fulfilled. In my view, this is the most rational solution that will affect the fair and timely provision of information on the number of members by union organisations. This is of great importance because the size of the union organisation translates into the possibility of exercising a number of rights and determines the extent of its powers. With the extension of the scope of the subject matter, the legal relationship of non-employees will become more sustainable. By introducing this regulation, the employer will not be able to freely terminate, terminate or amend the terms of a civil law agreement concluded with a trade union activist. In order to do that, he will have to get permission from the union board. This regulation leads to equalisation of the rights of employees in employment contracts and civil law contracts. The aim of the bill is also to amend the provisions clarifying and ordering the law, as well as the Labour Code and many other labour law laws. Ordering rules is simplifying them, which is what we all expect. I have no doubt that, with the entry into force of the Act, more Poles will be able to benefit from the protection offered by membership of trade unions. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceedings of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u239	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Do any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still want to be on the list? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Miazga. You're welcome, sir. One minute to question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed regulation amends the provision of Article contested by the Constitutional Court. 2 (2) 1. In accordance with the new wording of this provision, the right to create and join trade unions will be granted to those engaged in employment. Thus, a definition of the concept of a person doing a job, among others, has been introduced into the Professional Union Act. they are persons who provide work for remuneration on a different basis than the employment relationship while maintaining the need to perform it personally. I would therefore like to ask the question: Who, and to what extent, will be entitled to choose membership of a union organisation if the person concerned provides work on the basis of civil law contracts for several workplaces, where there are works committees? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u241	Thank you. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For several months Poles have heard that there will be a right to associate in trade unions for contractors and self-employed people. However, after the last amendment of the draft amendment to the trade union law, it is no longer so sure. We have a new premise on the project. According to that law, those who bear the economic risks associated with the performance of the work concerned will not have these rights. Moreover, this problem is not limited to self-employed people. In the draft law there is, as I mentioned, the risk associated with the performance of a given job, not e.g. with the pursuit of business activities. One provision in the contract can therefore shift the burden of carrying such risks, for example. for contractors and contractors [[♪ The bell ♪]] Work contract. I'd like to ask you to do the proceding...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u243	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u244	...this bill to draw attention to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u245	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is a similar nature. I'm talking about self-employed people. They are people pushed into self-employment by employers - in the interests of employers, for savings purposes - even so as not to pay their pension contributions. At the moment, these people are deprived of their right to get together, and at the same time their situation is so difficult that, because it is an economic activity, there is a risk. Therefore, my question is: Will this law cover it? Or will a provision that defines a person entitled to coalition rights not grant them that right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u247	Thank you. Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u248	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Does the government plan to introduce solutions in the future that eliminate numerous pathologies occurring in some large workplaces? I am referring mainly to situations that occur in workplaces where as many as dozens of trade union organisations operate, and in some cases there is a destabilization of negotiations with the employer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u249	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem raised by Mr Porwich... I wanted to ask you a specific question here. In the course of further legislative work, do you provide for the possibility of adopting or proposing, if you so wish, an amendment whereby workers can count as a member of a union organisation as a cost of income? That's one question. Second question: How do you want to remedy a situation in which there is, for example, one workplace. 100 employees and three union organisations, which include 260 members, so we have the so-called. multiplication - one employee belongs to several trade unions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Porwich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u252	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. [[Applause]] [[Encore.]] Does the government even assume that it is possible to strengthen the participation of trade union organisations in transnational federations and trade union confederations through the possibility of partial public funding of affiliation contributions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Very smart.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u253	Thank you. Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Three questions. First, who will interpret the definition of a person doing work? Can she really start a trade union or sign up for it? Isn't that gonna lead to litigation? Secondly, the Minister is working, as you probably know, the Labour Code Committee, which also sets out the issue of collective law. Will the work of this committee be compatible with this trade union regulation? Are we still facing another change of law, including collective employment rights? And the question of self-employment: self-employed people often have different economic activities, e.g. such a person may employ builders and, on the other hand, provide IT services for the employer. And at this point, it may belong to both employers' unions and trade unions. Is that gonna be possible? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u255	Thank you, Member. I would like to inform the High House that Mr Stefan Romecki, as the Bachelor of the Order of Smile, saw the kids at the gallery, waved to them. We greet you warmly, too. [[Applause]] And please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How important is the balance between the employer and the employees, I don't think I have to say, but I wanted to ask you this question. It is said that employees who are on civil law contracts are on them because they do not pay different burdens or that these burdens are lower, but it is also so that these people are currently not associated in trade unions and represent their interests much worse, which also translates into, let's say, the amount of intervention in parliamentary offices. Is there, therefore, any significant change planned [[♪ The bell ♪]] in relations between employers and those people on civil law contracts? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir. The list of votes has been exhausted, so please take the floor of Minister Stanisław Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the clubs for the debate, for supporting and directing the project to further work on the committee. I'm gonna talk about this a little bit, first of all, about club performances. Of course, it would be ideal if the parties concerned by this law, trade unions and employers' organisations, could communicate more and prepare solutions that would serve them in the best way possible to communicate. Joining trade unions is voluntary, joining employers' organisations is voluntary, there is no compulsion here. That is why last year, in March, we made the first proposal to the social partners for amendments to the Trade Union Act, on the one hand resulting from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, on the other hand from the various voices that came to us, which you also asked in your questions. We haven't been able to reach an agreement. As I have heard the club's statements, some of you present the arguments that the employers addressed to us during the work, some of you present those arguments which were presented by the trade union side. We have tried to write this project so that, on the one hand, it contains proposals that have been made by the social partners, but on the other hand, that workers who work on civil law contracts should be able to create trade unions, because that was also the intention of the Constitutional Tribunal - the possibility of joining trade unions created for all those who work on civil law contracts. It is also worth noting that, as far as our country is concerned, we are practically at the gray end of the union: 26th place in the European Union plus Norway, 12% union . On a European Union scale, the largest union is in the Scandinavian countries - more than 70%. This must also be taken into account in our discussions, i.e. over a year and a half working with the social partners, and the compromise has not been fully reached. Mr Porwich has left, and I have good information for him, and I think the colleagues will pass it on. [[We'll pass it on.]] Ms Elżbieta Rafalska, who took over the Presidency of the Council of Social Dialogue, announced at the last meeting that the issue of affiliate contributions to international organisations for trade unions would be regulated at the same level as for employers' parties that we are already tidying up and resolving these issues. I think it's good news for everyone who's taking care of these things. Another case in the case of self-employed persons, namely those engaged in economic activities. They may, of course, belong to different trade unions if they are in a particular establishment. There is a fundamental change in the fact that there will be no longer such a situation as you said there would be 100 employees and that there would be 200 people in the union organizations. That's not gonna happen, because this person is only gonna be in one relationship. We want this representativeness to be strengthened so that there is no artificial union formation, no blockage of negotiations. So it's gonna be a person for one relationship, there's not gonna be such cases that, for example. 120% The crew will be in trade unions. This issue is settled. With regard to questions concerning the various ways that Mrs Tomaszewska also asked about the drafting of contracts by employers in such a way as to give the impression that the employed bear economic risks, although this is not the case in practice, this is where we will enter into the civil code, which means that these cases can also be resolved on a judicial basis. Ultimately, in all these disputes, if there is no agreement, a decisive vote will be given by a court which will rule on such matters. I think that these issues, the comments you have raised, we will try to clarify or improve at the level of work in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u259	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u260	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum to this law states that the law will strengthen the position of trade union organisations and all those employed in relations with employers. In this connection, I have the following questions: How the entry into force of this law will strengthen the position of trade union organisations, since, contrary to the protests of the trade union centres, the government raises the threshold of representativeness from the previous 7% 8% ? Why didn't the government agree to the union's conclusions to maintain the 7 percent threshold of representativeness so far? It should be stressed that in many employment entities civil law contracts and employment are not concluded only on the basis of employment contracts and therefore the number of members of the union will not increase. Increase to 8% The threshold of representativeness may therefore mean a loss of representativeness by trade union organisations which represented large groups of workers and had a significant impact on the functioning of social dialogue in workplaces.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u261	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Trade Unions and certain other laws to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo, before we proceed to item 21 of today's agenda, I will announce a two-minute technical recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 49 hours 14 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate bill amending the Penal Code Act and the Code of Offences Act (Print No 1911). I ask Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft amendment to the Criminal Code and to the Code of Offences which are necessary as a result of a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal which stated that the judgment of the offence of objects which were used to commit the offence, unless they were the property of the perpetrator, constitutes a violation of the Constitution, where there is a situation that the owner or other entitled person did not foresee that they could serve or be destined to commit the offence. The proposals therefore aim to introduce in the Article. 44 Penal Code § 7a, which states that if the objects mentioned in paragraph 2 are those which are forfeited, as I mentioned earlier, do not constitute the property of the perpetrator, their loss may be determined if their owner or other entitled person had predicted that they could serve or be destined to commit the offence, or could have foreseen this under the precautions required in the circumstances in question. The same solution is proposed in the Code of Offences, which is proposed in the article. 30 add-on § 2a, the wording of which would be: If the tools or other objects which served or were intended to commit the offence are not the property of the perpetrator, their loss may be determined if their owner or other entitled person had predicted that they could serve or be intended to commit the offence, or could have foreseen this under the precautions required under the circumstances in question. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. And that would be so much about the Senate's proposals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u263	Thank you, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to speak. There's no envoy. This is Mr Arkadius Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the amendments proposed by the Senate of the Republic to the Criminal Code and the Code of Offences. The draft law aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal declaring non-compliance Article 2 OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 of the Law of 29 July 2005 on the Prevention of Drug Addiction. I would like to remind you that, by judgment of 28 October 2015, the Court held that, in so far as that provision allows a decision on the forfeiture of an object for the purpose of committing one of the offences mentioned in that provision, which is not the property of the perpetrator, is incompatible with Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I would not like to go into any deep or broad legal analysis of this issue at this point, but certainly the initiative taken by the Senate in this regard should be appreciated. Of course, I hope that the proposed solution will still be discussed at the meeting of the committee responsible. This solution provides that the decision in question is left to the court's assessment by the introduction of the word "possibly'. This concept is of course known in the Polish legal order, so it is not controversial in this respect either. It is also important from the point of view of this debate that this draft law has already been the subject of consultation, during which small but notable reservations have been submitted. Minister for Justice, Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and Minister for Development and Finance. In the course of the work, there was also an in-depth debate which led both to the Supreme Court and the National Council of the Court of First Instance not to raise objections to the final draft law. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the bill be submitted to the committees for further work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u265	Thank you, sir. I would like to welcome the students of the High School who sit at the gallery. Władysław Sikorski in Międzyrzec Podlaski. We welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the 1911 draft law on amending the Penal Code Act and the Code of Offences Act. As my previous speakers have said, this project is not controversial, adapting the Polish system of law to what the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled, and the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled that, in the event of the confiscation of an object which has been used for a crime, according to the legal condition that we have today, whether the owner of such a thing was aware of whether it was entrusted to someone or stolen, he may be subject to confiscation. We introduce into the Penal Code and the Enforcement Code a provision on the basis of which some kind of restriction is introduced, i.e. that this confiscation can only be decided if the person who owns the object that was used to commit the crime was aware that this object would be used in this way, or when he could assess, by accepting such normal conditions, a certain normal, ordinary awareness that such an object could be used for this purpose. Since it is, as I say, a non-controversial project, Kukiz will support it, because in fact it improves the situation of citizens who today can unfortunately be harmed by judicial judgments in a situation where some object, which is their property, can only be confiscated because someone used this thing to commit a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u267	Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present the position of the club regarding the Senate draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Code of Offences Act. The draft submitted aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 October 2015, i.e. Act SK 59/13, in which the Court found that the judgment was incompatible with the Constitution of the Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 law on the prevention of drug addiction. According to that provision, in the event of conviction for offences related to the production, transport or placing on the market of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, and of granting or facilitating their use to others, the court may have ruled that the subject matter of the offence and the objects and tools which served or were intended to commit it were not the property of the perpetrator. In previous case-law, the courts did not refer at all to whether the owner of the objects or tools could have known or assumed that they would be used to commit the crime, and were ruled exclusively... Thus, the owner of the object or tools could also be deprived of ownership, abstracting entirely from his guilt as to the extent to which the offence was committed. The Polish Constitution, as well as the generally accepted principles of law, do not allow discretion when imposing criminal penalties. The decision should be subject to proof of guilt, to the commission of a prohibited act. It is therefore unacceptable to use repression for acts committed by another person, in particular with regard to a person who did not know and could not foresee with due care that the objects used to commit the offence may be used for that purpose. This is the state of affairs that the Senate's bill is repairing. It is only surprising that here the Senate serves the Minister of Justice, because we have, in principle, at every meeting of the Sejm, laws that accidentally change these acts - both the Penal Code and the Code of Offences. I think that several dozen projects of different kinds have been submitted. However, as we can see when the Polish legal system needs to be adapted to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Ministry of Justice remains passive. However, given that we are dealing with a project that improves the situation with regard to citizens' rights, as well as leads to the compatibility of the legal system with the Constitution, the Posel Club Modern requests that this project be referred to the committees for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u269	Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the initiative of the Senate on behalf of the Polish People's Party. In fact, as the previous speaker said, the Senate in this case serves the Ministry of Justice, which should first demonstrate this type of initiative. But this, I think, that's it, and it's worth stopping at that reservation. High Izbo! Indeed, it is not so easy and unintelligent to deprive third parties of their non-felony property. As the defendants have the right to a fair trial, so to third parties who are unaware of the nature in which their property will be used, the right to return their assets shall be exercised. It is a good thing that the courts will investigate cases from now on, too. It does not condone with a sense of justice a situation in which the owner of such an object used in the crime is unable to prove to the court that he was careful and could not predict for what purpose this object would be used by the accused. The implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 October 2015 should be regarded as an improvement in the standards of the rule of law as regards the judgment of property forfeiture. Therefore, the Polish People's Party's Members' Club is in favour of directing this project to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u271	Thank you very much. And Mr Ireneus will gain. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Code of Offences Act. The draft submitted provides for the addition in the Penal Code and in the Code of Offences of Laws establishing that the forfeiture of tools or objects for the offence, which are not the property of the perpetrator, may be ruled out where their owner or other entitled person provided that they could be used to commit the offence, or could have foreseen this under the precautions required under the circumstances in question. As a basis for the submission of the draft, the applicant indicates the need to adapt the legal system to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 October 2015, sygn. SK 59/13, judged on the basis of a constitutional complaint declaring non-compliance with Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 of the Law of 29 July 2005 on the Prevention of Drug Addiction with Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of In the judgment cited above, the Constitutional Tribunal noted that the general courts in their judgments did not refer to whether the owner of the car could be attributed any reprehensible proceedings relating to the drug offences committed by the perpetrators using the car. Consequently, on the basis of the provision of the Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 The anti-drug laws have been taken out of severe legal consequences in the form of deprivation of a certain person's property rights. Despite this, as the Court points out, on the basis of the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The first sentence of the Constitution can be considered to be a valid view that the imposition of a criminal penalty or an equivalent penalty must not bear the marks of discretion. It should be subject to proper proof in the course of a well-established procedure of the offence or to indications that the entity's behaviour, in fact, is not a crime or offence, but, in the light of the applicable legislation, should be qualified as reprehensible and should be subject to specific repression. It is worth pointing out that the regulation proposed by the applicants in the project has been working successfully for a long time in the Tax Criminal Code, or more specifically in the Article. 31 § 1a. Interestingly, the Sejm was also obliged to implement it by judgment of the Constitutional Court of 29 June 2005 on the basis of a constitutional complaint, sygn. SK 34/04. Applicants propose that the draft wording of the new rules in the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code refer to the regulation of the Article. 31 § 1a Tax Code established by Article. Paragraph 10 (1) of the Law of 23 March 2017 amending the Law of the Criminal Code and certain other laws. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle welcomes the bill submitted. We are just wondering whether the analogy of the design of the tools or objects used to commit the offence, which are not the property of the perpetrator, should not also be included in the Anti-drugs Act, which has its own rules on the loss of objects, which constitute lex specialis in relation to code solutions. I ask the applicant's representative to respond to the legal issue indicated. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the bill be submitted to the committees for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Code of Offences Act. As has been pointed out by my previous speakers here earlier, this is a project that meets the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which pointed out that the reckless judgment of the loss of property belonging to a non-criminal third party requires correction and is incompatible with the Constitution. The solution proposed by the Senate, indicating that only a certain degree of guilt can justify the failure of an object to commit a crime, is most reasonable in our view and is also satisfying the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. For these reasons, the Law and Justice Club will support the bill and request that it be continued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u275	Thank you very much, sir. The questions were addressed by Mr Grabowski and Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski. Are they still willing to ask a question? If not, please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I have a question basically relating to most of these projects. Namely, here we execute the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal actually two years ago. What's taking so long? And this is not basically a question for the senator representing the designer, because, as far as we know, the Senate has done a solid job to prepare this project, but it is a question for the absent representative of the Ministry of Justice. As Mr Paszyk pointed out, in the first place, the Ministry of Justice should have this project, so to speak, lead, propose. However, it turns out that the Ministry of Justice here has abandoned the execution of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, as it were passed on to the Senate. However, I think that we should carry out these decisions more quickly, because the Constitutional Tribunal points out significant shortcomings in the Polish system of law and the pity that these defects are maintained for the next two years, because this is where citizens are lost in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have a technical question. Well, there will be a decree or judgment in which there will be a loss or a loss of the object. But if there is a misdemeanor, will there be a separate procedure in the case of a third party, because there is a third party being referred to as a non-participating person, or will she be able to appeal against that provision if it is adverse? How's that gonna work? I mean the technical side, the way in which this owner's right to keep this object was exercised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u279	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to confirm with Minister Warchoł whether I understood the meaning of this bill correctly. If I am, let's assume, dealing drugs and transporting them in the Minister's car, not my own, then I'll avoid punishment? Is this how it's supposed to be? [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u281	The list of speakers has been exhausted. I therefore ask that the Undersecretary of State speak at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Martin Warchoł. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all of you very much for your questions and, in particular, your last question, because you have touched the heart of the problem. Let us remember the situation in which this case has arisen. They appeared in a situation where the Audi car was converted to have a special locker to carry drugs, and the perpetrator of the crime was transporting drugs. The court ruled that this vehicle belonged to a third party, of course, and then the owner appealed to the Constitutional Court with a constitutional complaint, indicating that it was incompatible with the constitution that he, as a third party, had in no way committed a criminal offence, without having any charges - I stress - the criminal lost his car. And from this situation we must go out to remember how this sentence must be executed. Because the sound proposed here is dangerous. It's insanely dangerous. It leads to the situation that you have said. I know my friend's dealing drugs, everyone around here knows that, but I'm lending him a car. Then there is the question: How is the court supposed to prove that I knew or could find out that this car is being used for drug trafficking? How? He's gonna ask me if you knew that this car... Of course I'll say no. How will the court deal with the burden of proof in this situation? After all, the same owner who lent the car was aware that this person was dealing drugs, and he knew it. And here we turn the cat upside down. We stand on the side of criminals in the name of civil rights protection. Civil rights are never used to protect criminals. Therefore, the wording of this provision is very dangerous. Of course, we can work on this further in committee, but, I stress, we need to introduce here a specific presumption that this owner knew about it or could easily find out that - of course, the counter-proof needs to be predicted here a special shift of the burden of proof - the person whose car was lent to whom he himself lent the car - after all, it was not the dwarfs who lent this car, only the owner, so he knew or could have found out - he was dealing drugs and that the car specifically converted, with a safe deposit box, would be used as a tool to commit a crime, as an instrument for committing a crime. And it's only on this owner that the opposite will rest, the burden of proof to prove that it isn't. After all, judgment is not the Holy Spirit. The prosecutor is not the Holy Ghost. How are they gonna lead this evidence? We're on the side, ladies and gentlemen, very bad, on the side of criminals, and it's drug criminals. Drug crime, which must be combated by all means and means, at this point in time does not deserve protection in any way. What is more - one more thing I would like to point out - the sound of this provision suggests that the owner of this car should be charged. 'Cause who's the person who knew he was using his second car to sell drugs? He's a sidekick, of course. In the meantime, the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 28 October 2015 explicitly stated: It should be noted that repressive sanctions can be applied to an individual not only in connection with the offence, p. 21. The Court further points out: The differentiation of human behaviour may lead to a situation in which a person's behaviour will not, in fact, exhaust the signs of crime, but that behaviour may be negatively assessed from the point of view of law. And what's written here determines otherwise, you might say, makes us dependent on prior charges against this particular owner. The owner must be accused of helping him, and then I will be able to continue this procedure. This isn't right. This owner may be a completely third, independent person, in no way involved in criminal activity. That's what the Constitutional Court said. Therefore, this law still requires much, much more work so that we do not fire a child with a bath and do not make certain features on this wall of the fight against crime, and this drug crime, which is often organised crime, very dangerous, in the name of the defence of civil rights. Civil rights defense, yes, but not where it's about defending criminal rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u283	Thank you, Minister. Does the senator want to speak? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to answer the question asked by one of the Members, namely whether this regulation should be extended to other provisions which also provide for the forfeiture of the subject matter for committing the crime. Of course, this can be considered, because there are many such regulations, with the fact that we, as Senate, are carrying out judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, and therefore, because the ruling concerned a particular case, we have limited ourselves to this issue only. On the other hand, as far as I can remember, similar regulations providing for the failure of an object to commit a crime are provided for in at least a dozen or so other legal regulations when introducing such a criminal part into the regulation of certain spheres of social life. But what I'm trying to say is... [[But it was about the anti-drug bill.]] Yeah, it's especially the anti-drug law, but there's a whole bunch of other laws. If we reached, for example, the laws on nature conservation or fisheries, etc., it would turn out that sometimes there are almost humorous provisions in respect of compliance with the provisions of the laws in question, through the creation of criminal rules, where criminal sanctions for certain behaviours are provided for. Unfortunately, if we were to address this issue, this would be beyond the powers of the Senate, which has undertaken to bring the legal situation into line with the specific ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. And let me remind you that this is exactly what happened in the context of the anti-drug bill. Now, speaking of how we propose these changes, I would like to say that we are actually not making anything innovative here. Assuming that there is no such thing as responsibility for objective occurrence of a particular event in Polish criminal law, only responsibility is always linked to the sphere of a certain probabilities of proceedings in the form of whether it is actions or omissions, we have taken this in a manner similar to that which occurs e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31a Tax Code Act. If you read these wordings, you will see that they are the same as the ones we have adopted here, assuming that in this way we are fulfilling this request, which is the result of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, and at the same time this is a more precise one, which, as I say, is based on the wording already in the Tax Code Act and therefore have a specific connotation, a specific caselaw, an interpretation widely accepted by various judicial instances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u285	Thank you very much, senator. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Senate's draft law to amend the Criminal Code Act and the Code of Offences Act, contained in print No. 1911, to the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications for consideration. High Izbo! I'm declaring a time-out. 16. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 24 hours 16 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is in print 1992. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. I inform the High Sejm that our deliberations are now being listened to and watched by a group visiting the Sejm from the Catholic Secondary School. St. Faustina from Łódź and young people from the I and II High School of General Education and School Complex No. 1 of the Gastronom in Nowy Sącz. Welcome. [[Applause]] Formal applications. A formal request was made by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u286	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! I'd like to do it on the basis of an art. Paragraph 184. 3 request a recess and ask your marshal to intervene. According to Art. 10 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The Marshal upholds the legal order of the Sejm and watches over the work in the Sejm. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5 in the event of doubts as to whether the law adopted in committee may conflict with the constitution, the marshal intervenes and asks for the opinion of the Legislative Commission, possibly, Mr Marshal, on the basis of Article. 86a changes the mode of work on the bill, sets up an emergency committee which allows for a change of constitution in this way. Today, a draft law on foreign service was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which, according to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, is incompatible with the Constitution. [[Applause]] Not much, this project is contrary to the constitution in the opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. [[Applause]] That's the right handwriting. Minister Waszczykowski, before whom I bow low, states that in terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as well as the purpose and formula, the proposal for a Civil Service Council is incompatible with the Constitution. Mr. Marshal, that's what BAS says, that's the government's position. I would ask you, Marshal, to pay attention to this case. There are 3660 diplomats in Poland. According to this law, it must be said, everyone will be fired from work, all Polish diplomacy. On the basis of this law, all diplomatic degrees in Poland will be annulled. Can you imagine that the Health Committee is adopting a law, according to which e.g. Are all doctors losing their licenses and getting fired? There's been a scandal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! I ask that, in accordance with these articles that I have invoked, the marshal intervenes in this matter. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[He intervened.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u287	We will, of course, intervene in this matter when I receive the committee's report... [[I've already signed it. It'll be after the votes today.]] ...because this case is not on the agenda. [[But she's important.]] Art. Paragraph 184. 2, but I will take a look at the matter. [[In the mouth. Three, Mr. Marshal, to be precise.]] In the mouth. 2 What concerns formal applications is referred to. Formal requests may relate only, I quote, to matters on the agenda and to the proceedings of the Sejm. [[But don't be a formalist, because it's very serious.]] [[Member Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: How can a marshal fail to take this proposal into account?]] Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the blockage of the club's modern draft resolution commemorating the victims of the criminal October revolution, and these victims are over 100 million, I ask you ladies and gentlemen of the House for a minute's silence to celebrate these 100 million victims of the criminal communist ideology as regards this criminal event that took place more than 100 years ago. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Give them eternal rest, Lord... [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] Give them eternal rest, Lord... [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] Let them rest in eternal peace. [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u289	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not interrupt such situations because they concern very important things, but I would appeal to your Members not to abuse formal proposals. I kindly inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after receiving information that there is no consensus on this matter, this draft resolution will be discussed at the next session of the Sejm. [[Voice from the hall: He will not be punished?]] [[Excuse me, ad vocem.]] I am very sorry, Madame, there is no ad vocem mode or correction when you have not spoken. [[But the formal motion wants to make a statement.]] [[Voices from the room: corrected.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a point: Members' statements, so please use this item for statements. [[I wanted to correct it because it was wrong...]] You can correct a misunderstood or quoted statement of your own. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The position of the Modern was misquoted.]] I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform Club has submitted a request for the following item: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the links between the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz and all persons indicated in Mr. Macierevich and his secrets, in particular with Mr Siemion Mogilewicz, Mr Alfonse D. Amato and Mr Robert Lusnia... [[Voice from the room: KGB!]] ...and whether appropriate steps have been taken to examine honestly the links of people associated with the Ministry of National Defence, in particular Mr Antoni Macierewicz, Russian security services and members of the Russian Mafia, as described in Mr. Tomasz Fivek's book. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with this point I have put forward, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 167 votes against - 240, 17 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. And now the formal proposal, Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostowska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Rostkowska, not Rostowska.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've just rejected this motion. This is another attempt to sweep under the carpet this very serious subject. Let me remind you that we have asked Prime Minister Szydło to address all issues, all questions and doubts concerning the Minister of National Defence. Two weeks ago, we proved that under Antoni Macierewicz, the Military Counterintelligence Service lied in 2016, claiming that Jacek Kotas was not president of the company...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u291	But I would ask for a formal request, my fellow Member. [[Well, there's a conclusion.]] [[And now the justification.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u292	Today we have proved that the National Centre for Strategic Studies, contrary to what MON says, is closely linked to the Ministry of National Defence. I am filing a formal request for a recess so that you can have time to reflect and stop pretending there is no topic. This is really very important from the point of view of state security. I would like you to finally come to the right conclusion and deal with this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u293	Please. And one more formal conclusion. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I would like to request a one-minute break for Mr Romekowski to so to speak, sober himself up, and it is best for him to pour a glass of water on his head... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[No, stop it, stop it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u295	Excuse me, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u296	If you want to take things like the death of a million people seriously, at least do it in a decent way. [[Voices from the hall: Million?]] Millions of people, millions. Do it in a decent way, prepare a decent project - not a project that divides people, but a project that talks about people who died. What you've prepared wasn't suitable for anything...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u297	Madame, I am very sorry, but I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal. I'm so sorry, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u298	...only to reject. And that's what you do. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But fight at conferences, not...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, a formal request for a recess for one of the gentlemen, for a certain Member? I'm so sorry, ma'am. Let's be serious. But there's a request for a recess, the first one we have to vote on. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on a request for a break. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 169 votes against - 262, 1 abstention. The motion was rejected. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Budget Act for 2017. The additional committee report is in print 1986-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Sasin to present this report. [[Applause]] [[What kind of ovation is that? What happened?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm at its 51st meeting on 8 November 2017 pursuant to Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print 1986 to the Committee on Public Finances for the purpose of examining the proposals and amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance, following the examination of proposals and amendments at its meeting on 9 November 2017, namely today, proposes to reject two single-sounding requests to reject this draft law at second reading, which have been submitted by Parliamentary Clubs Modern and Civic Platform. On the other hand, as regards the amendments that have been tabled, there are six amendments - four tabled by the Modern Posel Club and two tabled by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. We also call for the High House to reject these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Jacek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u301	There you go. I will put the motion first to reject the draft law in its entirety. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for his rejection. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The questions are raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The government of PiS in debt of Poles and exceeded the debt of PLN 1 trillion. [[Government of Poland.]] The state proposes PLN 1 billion for public media, including television, where there are star contracts of 50,000. PLN per month, and you give the residents a modest 2,000. zł. [[So how much did this Fox make?]] You have granted money for restructuring of mining - PLN 10 billion. The price of coal for Poles is highest in a decade. You're taking 50 million zlotys for old people's meds. What do you do for a living? 80 million PLN for couches in offices and advertising about copulating rabbits for 3 million PLN. That's not right, that's why we're against it. These are very important reasons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u303	Rabbits? That's the first I've heard of it. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It was supposed to be a surplus, and it worked out like always. As we have been saying for months, the PiS government is the government that will deserve in the history of public finances, but not the treatment of these public finances, but on the contrary, the fastest debt of Poland. Last year we had 100 billion public debt. Everything points out that this year you will be little better, and just as the deficit was to be, despite the 10 and 11 months of the Poles' mom, which is going to be a surplus, so we will probably end the year with the amount of a dozen billion-dollar deficit. Next year you planned a horrendously high deficit of PLN 41 billion. And this is all in the years when all the countries in the region that are developing economically are actually overestimating. For example, Germany, which was supposed to have a more or less balanced budget for this year, will record a surplus of EUR 14 billion, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. President, the euro. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u305	Thank you. Mr Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u306	Ladies and gentlemen! Voting against changes in the state budget for 2017 is voting against payment of compensation to miners. Is that what you want? It's a vote against having medical offices in schools, against increasing educational allowances to support the family, foster care and the Large Family Charter. Is that what you want? The rejection of the draft amendment to the 2017 budget is finally a vote against increasing investment resources. On the one hand, you are attacking us that we do not invest, although Poland has 2nd place in Europe in terms of the inflow of foreign investments, and on the other hand you want to reject the draft budget change, which guarantees more than yet, more by 1.5 billion PLN for the capital injection of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish Development Fund, etc. Is that what you really want? Tell that to the Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u307	Thank you. There's a government representative, but I didn't hear those were government questions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 197, against - 232, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to Part 19: Budget, public finances and financial institutions. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Ombudsman - 37 million, National Election Office, which organizes elections throughout Poland - 69 million, Ombudsman of the rights of the child - 11 million. There's no nursery, there's no place in kindergartens, you don't have 500+ for parents raising their children alone, there's no place to protect their health. But what's it for? All you have to do is look at this bill, this amendment. 75 million PLN is spent on the creation of a new institution, the Institute of Solidarity and Courage. You'll be hiring your colleagues there. Another institution, sontekura for friends. [[Because they lack courage.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's not rational. This amendment, which we are presenting to you, is rational. She's rationalising this budget. We propose, if there is already so much money, to allocate it to the elimination of the budget deficit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u309	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 172 votes against - 234 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, the applicant proposes a change in Part 20: Economy. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about investments, or actually about PLN 1900 million for the recapitalisation of the Polish Development Fund and the link between these funds and the sale of the waterworks. At the last session in Nowy Sącz, a representative of the Polish Development Fund declared the purchase of more than 20% of the judicial waterworks for the amount of PLN 38 million, so that the president of the loser from Nowy Sącz, PiS-owski, the candidate supported by your president, could build Sandecja Stadium for these funds. Ladies and gentlemen! Do not create a circus with the Polish Development Fund in the implementation of the strategy for responsible development. Grant a grant of PLN 40 million for the construction of Sandecja Stadium. At least it'll be fairer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u311	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 167 votes against - 258, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose amendments to Part 24: Culture and the protection of national heritage. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the minority proposal and amendments 4 and 5 irrelevant. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, there is no money for citizens, but there is money for a new institute and payouts for colleagues - an institute that we are actually just voting on, but the money for it is already there. There is no money for citizens, but there is money for buying shares in municipal companies in local governments, in which PiS rules, so that their local government officials can show what great local governments they are, for extra taxpayers' money smuggled in by the fund. There is no money for citizens, but there is new money for Fr Rydzyk: 20 million, because 26 was not enough. There's no money for citizens, but there's 1 billion for President Kurski. On the other hand, every meeting we have new fees for citizens: and this is a rental fee, and this is a fee for shopping malls, and this is a ZUS increase. That's the best account of the PiS government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u313	Mr Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The finance minister is updating the budget to give 1 billion PLN on PiS-owska, propaganda television, in which the ethical training will be conducted by the editor Earthiec. If that's not enough, you're giving 75 million to an institute that isn't there yet, and you're arguing for a name because you don't know if there's going to be a manhood or courage. Call it a money laundering institute right away, because it's nothing more than the Polish National Bis Foundation. [[Applause]] If that's not enough, you're taking 50 million zlotys out of the medicine pot, even though you promised them they'd be free. So I suggest: in the nearest reconstruction of the government, if you're going to eliminate the weak ministries, eliminate the Ministry of Finance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u315	I didn't hear any questions either. Mr Dominik Tarczynski, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak... [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: No need!]] [[That's right.]] Does it hurt already? Already? Does it hurt already? So some data and it's gonna hurt even more. Thomas Fox - how much did he get from you? His private company - private company - 7400 thousand. zł. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Private company, not State Treasury company. Gazet Wyborcza... [[Speech outside the microphone]] Silence now, because the envoy at the Sejm says. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Quiet! Gazet Wyborcza. Attention, revenues from advertising from companies of the Treasury during the Platform - 51.6%. One private company. [[Millions, not percent.]] Why really support State Treasury companies? Why support public media? It is better to support private, because of course it goes to citizens. No, it went to private companies. Now I'd like to say that you're hypocrites, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't have any... [[Question!]] And you don't scream, my dear, because screaming won't change anything. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] No screaming, no whining, no screaming, no screaming, no screaming, no screaming, no screaming, no screaming, no screaming, no screaming, no screaming, no Is there a piss? Excellent! [[A stir in the courtroom, Members hit the desks, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Question, Marshal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u317	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 191 votes against - 236, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th Amendment, applicants propose a change in Part 24: Culture and the protection of national heritage. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the lack of relevance of the minority proposal and the 5th amendment. The question is raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Why are you amending the budget... And you had the best chance to talk to residents, to doctors about Polish cases, to shorten queues. You didn't do it. You're not interested in sick people, you're not interested in people waiting in line. You're spending extra money on public television. Please, we point out that it is worth addressing this problem, it is worth spending money on treating women with BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, so that there are funds to reimburse benefits related to double mastectomy - please, this is an important topic for 100,000. Polek - means for mastectomy and breast reconstruction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not be manipulated by public television. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u319	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President, why did you delete the information from your phone, how much did President Kurski give his friend the bonus? [[Applause]] That message somehow vanished from you... I didn't mention your name. You can come back. [[Applause]] [[I'll be right back.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you want to allocate almost PLN 1 billion to the propaganda tube. Most of the public and information programs - how to put it - are your campaign ads. [[They have the highest ratings.]] Why should we pay for it? Take the money from the grant you're getting for the party. This is the place, the source from which it should be financed. [[But they have the highest ratings. They're ahead of TVN.]] Question: "Why do you not want to transfer this money to health care?" You're not interested in the residents' protests, you're not interested in the hunger they've taken. 'Cause what's it to you? Your stools are important, your money is for your friends. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're saving a bankrupt bank that no bank can even lend because they don't give loans to bankrupts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Lot was about to go bankrupt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u321	Please, but Mr... Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are in the process of asking questions and these questions must be addressed to the representative of the government or to the rapporteur. [[But who's next?]] Mr Dominik Tarczynski, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[What's the point?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I always say, before you hit on me, be careful. Mr Meysztowicz, before you become the saint who wants to account, speak first about your tenements in Krakow and later on about state finances. And first... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[What's this?]] Don't disturb me. I know it hurts. And first, figure out how to make transfers, because you can't do it either. Richard Petru lost his grant because you can't even do it, and you want to talk about the state's finances. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: That's enough.]] And ending... [[Where's the question?]] Screaming won't stun the truth. If you want data, 42 million euros went from you to the Election... [[Finish it!]] ...not to public television, which now respects patriotism, which now... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Are you guys happy? Fun? [[Change of course, Mr. Marshal.]] You'll laugh through tears.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u323	I would like to draw your attention to this. Ask questions first of all about not making trips ad personam, because I will have to draw the consequences. [[Marshal, don't pay any attention to us, just an exorcist...]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Two Members abstained in the vote in 197, against - 231. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose a change in Part 24: Culture and the protection of national heritage. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the minority's proposal unobtrusive. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Shieldinski! After such speeches, I am ashamed that I am sitting with you in this Chamber as a Member of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] And if you want to talk to me about public finances, please prepare yourself for this debate in substance, not make personal driveways with my clubmates. [[You guys learn how to make a transfer.]] Unlike you, I am talking about facts: about PLN 75 million spent on the foundation, which we are adopting at this meeting, about PLN 980 million for Jack Kurski, whose transfer we are adopting at this meeting, about PLN 900 million for restructuring coal mining, whose transfer we are also adopting at this meeting, and about many other items that are included in the budget, and not just in you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Head on an embarrassingly low level. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u325	Thank you. Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u326	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tarczyński is a coward, he has shown this repeatedly. He's hiding behind immunity. If you were a man of honor, you wouldn't hide behind immunity. Your friends are defending you. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[It hurts, it hurts.]] You can't... You're defending the loser, Kurski's manager. It is about 800 million loans, a loss for 2016,160 million, and an additional 1 billion. Wouldn't it be better, Mr President, Mr Reporter, to spend it on the roads? The local government is prepared. Prime Minister Szydło said she would like the roads to be built. You've even accepted a program like this. So? And nothing, and there's less money for that. And, sir, if you were... To Mr Shieldinski: Don't take the floor any more, because it is a shame for this House. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u327	Mr Dominik Tarczynski, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[Voices from the hall: Boo...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u328	Thank God it's not the Platform's messenger who will decide if I should speak, but it's up to the voters - the Poles. [[Members hit the desktops]] I understand that Mr Kierwiński is confounded, now he has a problem and would like to move the caracali case... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Did you guys get over it or not? Mr Nitras may give you something to calm you down. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Come down, you coward.]] I understand that Mr Kierwiński would like to move [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] discussion on the caracala to the court so that no one discusses it publicly in Parliament of the Lightest Republic, but this will not work. [[Voice from the room: Coward!]] [[Sit down.]] Of course, the shut-down... [[♪ The bell ♪]] The secrecy in the process, the exclusion of transparency - that was the goal. But there's something else I want to tell you. If someone calls me a coward, like the Member, what do you call Donald Tusk, who escaped the charges? He'll be back. [[Time's up. Mr. Marshal, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u329	Thank you. Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor. [[And what's the president so happy about? Rude speech? What are you guys so happy about?]] [[Out of your stupidity.]] Quiet, please. [[Voice from the room: From your behavior.]] Ask questions. [[Start talking in substance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u330	May I, Marshal? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It can be seen that the health of Poles is very bad, as we have an example today in the Seym. [[Applause]] That is why we have tabled an amendment to move PLN 1 billion from party and government television, unfortunately, to health care, to the Ministry of Health, to highly specialised orders, among others. heart transplants, valves, aortic surgery, liver surgery, lungs. I think that money will be much better spent than if it were spent on propaganda. You can see that what's happening on public television is moving here, and unfortunately, you guys can't function together, and that also indicates that you're in a state of health. It's a little out of order. Question: "When will public television become civil television, independent?" When is the election of the president of public television, the fourth power? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u331	This question is not related to this amendment, Mr President. [[There it is.]] Pay attention to that. The amendment does not concern the election of the President of TV. [[What about the Tarsinski's statement?]] The formal proposal is submitted by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna need a break. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] [[Let's go.]] Hit it, hit it. You're right, Mazurek spokesperson, go ahead. I ask for a recess and a convocation of the Senior Convention so that the Law and Justice can call on Mr. Dominik Tarczyński to stop cowardly hiding behind immunity, like the last coward, to give up this immunity to meet us in court. You're just a coward who can't defend what he's saying in court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u333	Mr... [[You can't be insulted.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u334	You only hide behind your colleagues because you know that your rather miserable parliamentary career would end in court. If you have the courage to insult anyone in this House, go to court and prove your point. Don't hide behind immunity because you're just a coward. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Thieves!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u335	Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot take this proposal as a formal proposal... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] [[You're standing up for yourselves now?]] ...because the convent of the Senior Convention belongs to the Marshal, but I declare a three-minute break and call the Senior Convention to the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 44 hours 16 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform the High House that at the meeting of the Senior Convention, I have given the presidents of the clubs to stop their Members from speaking irregularly, [[Applause]] insulting each other and trips ad personam. If this does not happen, ladies and gentlemen, I declare to everyone that I will not allow questions to be asked, that we will go directly to the votes and that those who interfere have prevented me from doing so in accordance with the article. 175 proceedings will be held, and I will be held liable in terms of regulatory consequences. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shieldynski pull.]] We continue to consider item 8 of the agenda. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 362 Members voted. 165 voted against - 197, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In a minority proposal, applicants propose to amend Part 24: Culture and the protection of national heritage. The question is asked by Krzysztof Truskolas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS propaganda tube thanks to this bill will get almost a billion zlotys. Questions to the Minister of Culture: What will the money go for? Whether on new belt specialists, which are already a breakthrough of Goebbels propaganda, or on new journalists so-called. The investigators who... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You fool, get out of here.]] What did you say to me? [[Mr. Marshal, what is this?]] Punish me. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] ...the only task is to run after the Members of the opposition? An example of today's survey of the achievements of their government... [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, scandal!]] ...and questions only to Members of the PiS. Is this television pluralism? [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] Or maybe for bonuses for the board and for eagles from the news that carry out the mission of Polish Television so well? That's what this billion is for. And in this minority proposal, we want this money to be transferred to health care. Yeah, for health care. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: To the ethics committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u337	I draw Mr Konwiński's attention... To a Strauscan, he should not use words that are words that offend the High House. [[But who have I offended?]] This is a warning in accordance with Art. 175 for the first time. [[But now what?]] [[Five.]] Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. If insulting words fall, I will turn the microphone off for Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We can allocate nearly a billion zlotys to the Ministry of Health, to raises for health professionals, instead of, as PiS wants, to PiS-owska's dirty propaganda, to these prizes for helpful journalists, to prizes for the life companion of Kurski's president, on the dubious quality of street probes, for this continuous daily manipulation. If Kurski and his people believe the crap they feed us every day, let them work for ideas, as Marshal Karczewski said. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u339	Nor did I hear in Mr Konwiński's speech that this was a question addressed to the government or to the rapporteur. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But you're selectively hearing the marshal.]] Let me remind you that... [[They're genetically incapable.]] ...at the Senior Convention meeting, I paid attention not to such speeches. Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice, who has made a formal request, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a debate without asking questions. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[Of course!]] I will justify it in two sentences if, of course, the High Chamber retains the seriousness of the High Chamber. [[Gag.]] [[Voice from the hall: Close the Sejm.]] We just had a Convention meeting where the clubs agreed that the questions they were asking would be about the subject and there would be no mutual insult. As you can see, you are unable to keep your word even in such a simple matter, and therefore, in order to preserve the seriousness of our deliberations, I am proposing to move to votes without asking questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no such formal proposal.]] [[Which point of the Rules of Procedure?]] [[Or maybe a bill without a vote. What's that for?]] [[Get out of here and don't come back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u341	Unfortunately, I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal, because firstly, in his first formulation, he asked for a debate without questions. We are in the middle of a vote, so this is not a debate. Second, the passageway... If you could repeat this proposal again, Mr... [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] [[He was very complicated. The point was not to ask questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! About moving to votes without asking questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Easier?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such formal request. [[Applause]] There's a vote without discussion, [[Applause]] referral to committee, move to agenda, close the discussion... [[But this is a discussion.]] ...change in the way the vote is conducted. [[Voice from the Chamber: Voting without discussion.]] [[But for Mark Suski, it was very intelligent.]] Unfortunately, this is a loophole in the rules... [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] [[We'll catch up.]] ...which compels me that I cannot accept Mr Suski's request as a formal motion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 197 against 236, no one abstained. The motion was rejected. In the 6th Amendment, the applicant proposes a change in Part 48: Economy. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, a modern club. [[But questions, not discussions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Economic growth, global prosperity. Most countries of the European Union are beginning to have surpluses, and we are spending, throwing away money and we have record deficits. [[What country? One.]] How much longer are you gonna be sponsoring non-profit mines? How long will we be from the budget, from our taxes, but also from our electric bills, to pay for your ideas about coal? I'd like to add one more thing. If we are talking about something offensive, the most intelligent Polish people insult stripes on TVP. Therefore, another 980 million should not be spent on it. On the other hand, I would like to address Kukiz15. You guys put your finger on TVP as a party TV...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u345	But Madam, your statement goes beyond the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u346	...because you voted in favour of the first laws on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u347	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We gave money together for deputies, among others. for carbon bills. But why aren't you treating all retired people who used to work in mines just the same? Polish television, regime television, nobody really wants to watch anymore, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Even your electorate doesn't want to see it anymore, so you're constantly pumping money unnecessarily instead of separating it equally and correctly for mining pensioners instead of giving it to health care. He protests a united medical environment in Poland, all the medical professions, and what do you do about it? Nothing. You think there's no problem. Maybe it's time to wake up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u349	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 49 against - 365, with 19. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the project as a whole, the question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to the plans for next year we will have the third largest deficit in Europe after Romania and France. We have been hearing all year about the budget surplus that was supposed to be worked out at the end of the year, and it turns out that there will be a horrendously high deficit. It is better than us that countries associated with fatal fiscal policies and a powerful fiscal crisis, such as Greece, which will generate a surplus next year, Italy, which will have a lower deficit than us or Spain. As many as eight countries next year have a projected budget surplus, six of them will grow slower than Poland, and yet these countries can save. Prime Minister, you are in charge of a government that owes us so much. How do you want to catch up with Europe? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u351	I don't think it's about that bill in that question. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: The deficit is 59 billion.]] Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u352	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Why did the Prime Minister sign up for such a terrible project? You are giving 10 billion PLN for 90,000 this year. miners, which means you support one place with 111 thousand. PLN per year. You don't give money for drugs, you don't give money for the road investments you've been talking about, you take money to pensioners for the 75+ programme, you take a lot of money and you give it to the public. 800 million PLN per loan, 1 billion PLN of subsidies without any provisions in this regard, because there is no provision on compensation for television, there is a provision on the exemption of persons who would pay for it. So you took the priority: Kurski, Kurski, Kurski, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and we take priority: Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u353	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'm asking you a question as an applicant. Why are we voting today on a law that provides for a deficit rather than a law that is to be surplus? For about a month there's been talk of a surplus. I was hoping that if we had a surplus, we would at least make life a little easier for our children and grandchildren who would have to pay for us. However, it turns out that we have a large deficit, one of Europe's record deficits, at a time when there is actually a surplus in many European countries, because it is economical. So the question is: Why are we voting today on the deficit and not on the surplus budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u355	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for this 1 billion on public television, the worst part is not that, let's say, the public television news sector bows to Herbert's "The Power of Taste," but the fact that this television, for which we are to allocate an additional 1 billion, is a television in which many millions more Poles watch TV shows than the news, where they are frequented by the worst pop culture crap that exists in the Polish space, where the promotion of single-sex relationships is frequented... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What's that phrase?]] Yeah, on Kurski's TV for two years after a good change, that's what's going on. Government propaganda really isn't enough. You don't understand what a cultural war means, and that's the problem. It would be good for you to prepare this 1 billion PLN for patching a hole in Polish society, in the Polish economy after the fur industry, which you want to destroy Mr Czabański's project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And today we discussed it. You want to make huge losses in the name of some of your eco-terrorist phobias. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u357	Thank you. Mr Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Because here we are talking about debt of Poland etc., I would like to ask: Is it true that the debt of the public finance sector in Poland in 2016 was 54.1% GDP, 2017-53.8% , compared to 88% in euro area countries and 83% in the European Union itself? So is it true that we are one of the 12 countries with the best debt-to-GDP ratio? Here, too, there is often a charge of underfunding for health care. Minister, is it true that in 2017 we spent 10 billion more on health care than our predecessors and another 10 billion on health care for the next year... [[Of course it's a lie.]] ...i.e. 20% more to protect health than the PO-PSL government did? [[Applause, ringtone]] Is it true that we have set aside, given the next year and the plan, almost 40% more payment appropriations for residents?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u359	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u360	Is it true that we've increased... [[Voice from the courtroom: Time, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u361	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u362	...we paid off until...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u363	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u364	...PLN 564 million for medicines free for seniors etc.?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u365	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u366	So what are you talking about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u367	Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Several comments explaining the main issues concerning these increased expenditures on culture. Ladies and gentlemen, you know perfectly well, [[Game in the O.R.]] You know perfectly well... [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] ...that some money is so called. Ingoing. And these are the expenses... [[For propaganda.]] ...which must be consummated in the current year or must be legally able to move through the allocation to companies. So this isn't money that we can easily distribute to other, very needed ones. We all have goals. That's the first point. [[But the debt can be reduced.]] The second point is that you talked a lot about the money spent on public television from these compensations. I would like to ask Members from local backgrounds in general: aren't you interested in funding public radio, 17 local public radio companies? [[Voices from the room: No!]] Great. Your constituents have heard this answer. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Not like this.]] You're not interested. You're not interested in funding... [[Not PiS.]] ...radio companies... [[Propaganda!]] ...Polish, public. Next line. One of the Members asked about the legal basis of the compensation mechanism. It is this law that introduces such a legal basis. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: And the law works backwards.]] This is obvious for an experienced parliamentarians. A few more things may be important, because the public has not heard about what we would like to spend this year's money on. For instance, for the purchase of the headquarters... [[On your own.]] ...for the future Warsaw Ghetto Museum in Warsaw. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] For the purchase of the Lubomir Palace in Lublin on the future seat of the Museum of Eastern Lands of the Old Republic. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] To take over the collections of the former NOT technical museum in Warsaw, which unfortunately went bankrupt, but we managed to save this museum, to establish the National Technology Museum and we have to buy the collections for this museum. One more important thing... [[That's a few million of it.]] ...you will look at your consciences - the purchase of ownership rights to the catalogue of Polish Recordings from Warner Music Poland, [[Applause]] The money you sold for the dog. [[You sold it for a dollar.]] You want to hear what you sold? Recordings of piano competitions. Fryderyk Chopin, from the recording of the Warsaw Autumn festivals, Jazz Jamboree... [[They sold everything out.]] ...recordings of the original duo by Jeremy Przybora and Jerzy Wasowski... [[Voices from the room: scandal!]] ...records of popular music artists such as Czesław Niemen, Anna Jantar, Wojciech Młynarski... [[Voices from the room: scandal!]] ... Zbigniew Wodecki, Irena Santor, Marek Grechuta, Krzysztof Klenczon, Skaldów. [[That's terrible.]] Children's fairy tales even, read by actors such as Wiesław Michnikowski, Irena Kwiatkowska, Barbara Krafftówn. So if you'll excuse me... [[They even sold it. Even the children's fairy tales were sold.]] ...that we will buy back for the Polish state the right to these works. Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause]] [[Eva, what have you done?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u369	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 1986 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. [[Applause]] 235 voted against - 193, 4 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Budget Act for 2017. We return to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1983-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Maria Zuba to present an additional report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we considered the amendments tabled by Members. We propose that the High House support the position of the Committee on Public Finance and accept one amendment and that the three amendments be rejected. Thank you very much. Please accept the position of the Public Finance Committee. [[Applause]] [[What amendments, how is one amendment?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Not this bill, Madam.]] [[That's not the bill.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. It's about rejecting one... two amendments and adopting the whole bill. [[Applause]] [[There's one amendment.]] [[There are no two amendments.]] One amendment. [[That's a great report. Now everyone knows what we're voting on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u371	To clarify - there is one amendment [[Joy in the Chamber]] and minority request. There's a formal conclusion. To this point, sir? For this, right? Otherwise, I'll stop you. [[Impossible.]] This applies to print No 1983-A. [[Voices from the room: Formal conclusion!]] Here you go, Mr Rafał Grupiński, a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u372	This is a formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal. [[It's about order.]] It's not a question, it's a formal conclusion. Well, I was gonna ask you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u373	Subject: Report from the finance committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u374	Yes, of course, it refers to the budget... [[But this is a formal conclusion.]] ...and until Mr. Glinski's last statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u375	No, no, sir. Then I'll let you in later.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u376	I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u377	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u378	...the convening of the Senior Convention, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u379	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u380	...and an announcement of a break.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u381	I'll let you in later, sir. [[There's no censorship in this room.]] First we have to do this point because there's a misunderstanding here. Then I'll ask you to take the floor, make a formal motion. [[But this is a formal conclusion.]] Let me remind you: this is the additional report of the Committee on Printing 1983-A - the third reading. [[The formal proposals concern order. And that's about right.]] The Commission sets out in an additional report a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and an amendment. [[Mr. Marshal, my proposal concerns the agenda.]] Mr President, please don't disturb me at the moment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Let me remind you that there are no amendments here, but there is only one amendment. The adoption of the proposal will render the remaining proposals futile. The Members shall raise questions. Member Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There's just been such a conclusion that we're not in debt like the Greeks, so we can take it easy. And that's a bit obvious after this government. You can see the loose ends, the limos, the credit cards. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you if it is true that you are cheaply paid for medical rescue workers, for nurses, for medical practitioners who care about our health, for the safety of Poles, while with a light hand you spend PLN 75 million on another institution that does not exist yet - it has not been established yet, but it will already have PLN 75 million. And instead of rationalising expenditure, instead of pursuing a cost-effective, rational budgetary policy, you have introduced a system in which these expenditures are simply loosened. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do this, yes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How irresponsible Greeks will sink Poland and children...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u383	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u384	...our children, our grandchildren will pay their debts...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u385	Mr Jan Szewczak has the floor... Member Mirosław Suchoń: ...which you're dragging today. Marshal: ...law and justice club. Member Mirosław Suchoń: This bill must be rejected. [[Applause]] Is Mr Szewczak here?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u386	Ladies and gentlemen! Is it true that anger and frustration can cloud your mind? Maybe. I'll answer that question myself. [[Applause]] [[What's this?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that you believe was to be illegal - I remind you, it was to be illegal - was to end with the second Armageddon, the second Greece... [[It is.]] ...will bring sensationally positive results - sensationally positive results. You'll see. [[Don't lift a finger at me.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what logic do you propose in public finances? That you're going to liquidate the Ministry of Finance, and that's enough money for all of us? What logic does Modern offer us? That if they came to power, what... what did President Petru say? [[But that's not...]] They will immediately sell LOT, sell PKO BP and Pekao SA and distribute this money to Poles. This is completely absurd, ladies and gentlemen. I mean... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I mean, this budget... [[Voice from the courtroom: As for Madeira, they will be transferred.]] ...is always a plan of revenue and expenditure - a plan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can be changed, it needs to be changed for the benefit of Poles. [[Time!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u387	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Mr Grupiński has been notified.]] [[We're voting, Mr. Marshal, no takers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will tell you briefly what hurts Poles. [[Voice from the room: Is that a question?]] There'll be a question. Poles pain everyday waste of giant money on public television. This is an institution very... [[Voice from the room: 8 years...]] ...but it's very mismanaged. Every day... [[Why are you so eager to be in the media?]] Don't interrupt. Every day, ladies and gentlemen, propaganda specialists are shoving Poles on top of each other. You know that, you tolerate it. Let me tell you one more thing. I see you every day. And every day you say you believe in God. I have a question for you. [[None of your business.]] We want to give this 1 billion PLN... [[Voice from the room: Thieves.]] ...for health care, and you want to put on public television, which Kurski, thanks to you, is unable to manage. If you raise your hand to give 1 billion PLN per [[♪ The bell ♪]] Public television, it's God in your heart you don't have. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u389	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 226, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the amendment, applicants propose, inter alia, delete Article. 16a and add Article. 16g and Article 16g 16h in the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why don't you move the resources you want to spend on Jack Kurski's propaganda, on health? This is PLN 1 billion. Prime Minister Gliński doesn't know anything about what's going on in the music market. Today Warner Bros., who bought Polish Recordings, publishes a whole valuable series Polish Jazz, which no one has ever spent before for many, many years, because he is interested in Polish culture. [[Applause]] If you want to sell Exatel to the Russian surroundings of Macierewicz, just like Polish Recordings, then congratulations. Anyway, if you succeed, I'll feel sorry for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u391	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Prime Minister! We are interested in financing public television and public radio, but PiS-owski is no longer, and we are interested in financing public mission, but propaganda is not. And now the question -- so that the marshal doesn't resent -- who said, "This is a disgrace to TVP." You're all crazy. I'm sorry that on public television after the political change I've worked for many years, I've been facing these kinds of charges. It just so happens that those are your words, Prime Minister, just a year ago. And it just so happens that your situation on public television happened once, and it happens to us every day, from morning to evening. [[Applause]] [[But what does that have to do with the budget?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u393	The question is asked by Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u394	To the Minister of Finance: Is it true, Minister, that not only do we want to allocate PLN 1 billion more to health care, but we have already allocated over PLN 10 billion, and we want to allocate an additional PLN 500 billion over the next 10 years... [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Gabriela!]] ...why is the bill already passed? This isn't about 1 billion, it's about 500 billion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] On the other hand, if you treat public television this way, as we hear it, then I have a question: Why do you all - Members and Kukiza, and Modern One, and PO - so eagerly gleaned in these television programs? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u395	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 197, against - 233, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, the question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Masłowska! Someone on TVP and Polish Radio - or basically on TVPiS and PiS radio - must lie all the propaganda that flies there on stripes from morning to night... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Madam, you do not believe what you are saying.]] ...and someone has to straighten out all the lies you're saying from the Seymary. And if I have the opportunity to correct what you said today from this podium, I will tell you this: Poland still spends - and please do not lie to Poles - less than 4.5% on health... [[4,7 we're already spending.]] ...and there are countries in Europe that spend 10 GDP. And the higher revenues to the health fund are only due to the fact that it has made a health contribution and more money has been paid into the health contribution fund... [[It was Balcerowicz.]] ...for her raise and for lower unemployment, not because you or other Members or members of the government [[♪ The bell ♪]] They decided to devote more health to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u397	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u398	And that's why we have to go to TVP. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u399	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Maybe for once, today, so there is no shame, you will answer the question of Poles: Why doesn't he have money for drugs? Why doesn't he have money to invest? You had a chance... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And there's money for Jack Kurski's TV. Prime Minister Gliński, the question has not been answered, how much for regional television and radio centres, because you will certainly allocate everything for Kurski's television. You say and Mrs Butterwska... I would ask you to operate on what is in the Polish Constitution, but that you do not respect the Constitution, we know. Do not argue with other arguments. Our constitution says how much debt there is. In absolute numbers, you have indebted Poland, if we are talking about a year, most of all governments. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] Lowest investment since 1990. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You should be ashamed of yourself for that. For investments, not for Kurski's TV. [[Lies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u401	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As part of the question, I will answer Mrs. Masłowska's question. We go to public television because public television is ours, all Poles... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...and PiS, and PO, and Kukiz, and Modern, and PSL, and other groups that are not in parliament. That's why we're on TV. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's why we're doing everything we can to help them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u403	Mr Dominik Tarczynski, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! I really did not want to take the floor and ask questions, but I have a very important question to the Minister, to the Prime Minister: Is there any option, any possibility that he could finance some private TV, as the Gazeta Wyborcza was co-financed, e.g. The paper of six kings by Richard, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] So you'll have yours so you'll be happy? I worked on public television. The only reason I was fired because of you guys is because I had conservative opinions. And now you're in pain... [[You're getting the hang of it, aren't you?]] ...that public television isn't the one, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Who's slowing down for conservative views, but she's the TV that tells the truth. And as for health care... Scream, scream, don't yell. And as far as health care is concerned, it's you, and I'll always tell you this and remind you, you've raised VAT on carts and baby clothes, you've reduced it to condoms and coffins. I'll remind you of that. [[Applause]] [[It's getting weaker.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u405	May I remind you that this is the time Asking questions. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 1983 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 233 voted against - 196, 1 member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. We return to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative activities. This report is in print No 1981-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u406	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report from the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of innovative printing activity 1934. At its 51st plenary session on 8 November, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in this paper to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 8 November, brings forward... I would like to say that 11 amendments have been tabled in total, two amendments to the Civic Platform Club have been withdrawn. The Commission recommends adopting amendments 6 and 7 and rejecting amendments 1 to 5 and 8 and 9. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u407	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's a 1981 print. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. 26e paragraph. Point 2a of the Personal Income Tax Act proposes that the applicant should extend the specification of the equipment referred to in the provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is to improve the legal environment of innovative activities, which I understand, Prime Minister Gowin, because this is the resort appropriate to this law, the law is to be clearer and clearer. Then why do you insist and do not want to enter specialized tools in the catalog? Entrepreneurs are asking for it, they asked for it during the consultation, they asked for it at the committee meeting. I tabled an amendment that was rejected at the committee meeting. And what did we hear, ladies and gentlemen? That they are to reach into the English dictionary, there is a definition. So now the entrepreneur will walk like this: under one arm he will have a law and under the other he will have a dictionary of the Polish language. And that is the improvement of the legal environment. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not correct this, there will be no money, among others. for this propaganda, which you were just talking about, for the 500 billion listed here, and there will only be a message from the cabaret from the Polish People's Republic: Who is this interview for? For the news, I'll say five hundred without a goat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u409	Good. I mean, bad. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 183 voted against - 228, 11 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 18d paragraph. 2 point 2a of the Corporate Income Tax Act, the applicants propose to extend the specification of the equipment referred to in the provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 185 voted against - 231, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 5 draft amending act containing amendments to the Technical Dosor Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 168 votes against - 231, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 6 draft amending act containing amendments to the Patent Advocates Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 173 voted against - 242, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 86ba Law on Higher Education applicants propose, inter alia, to change the reference. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 182 voted against - 245, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 6 to 8 were tabled in Article. 9 draft law amending amendments to the Act on certain forms of support for innovative activities. In the 6th amendment to the article. 2 (2) Point 17 of the proposal to amend the statutory definition. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Gowin! I have a question: Who is the author of the definition of net revenue in this draft law, and why have you introduced a completely different definition for the purposes of this law than the financial and accounting system? Did the finance department consult you because I'm having big doubts? And if so, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn is right that there should at least be a little thought and change on staff matters. I'm asking you to let the High House know what this is about, and I'm going to quote what the definition was. Net revenue is - note - net revenue without tax on goods and services. Prime Minister, take another look at this entire bill when it's in the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u411	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 421 against - 3, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and paragraph 3. 6 point 9 of the proposal to amend the definition of the year referred to in those provisions. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 8. The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Gowin! The same question as before, because this again applies to the definition layer. Question: "Who was the author of this phrase, or also the Ministry of Finance?" Because, ladies and gentlemen, if someone confuses the financial year with the calendar year, it's really embarrassing that it is necessary to explain at a committee meeting so simple and basic terms to the staff of the ministry. Please pay attention to this and please verify - I repeat my request - the entire bill in the Senate. In the end, I'll tell you why. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u413	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 393 against - 29, with two abstentions. The amendment was accepted by the Sejm and, therefore, the 8th amendment is without object. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole bill is designed to increase the innovation of our economy. The rules affect institutions such as the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, the National Centre for Research and Development. It's about relief... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, can we have some silence in the courtroom? ...tax, i.e. the whole sector, which increases the innovation of the Polish economy. And our amendment refers to an increase in the catalogue of companies that will benefit from tax reliefs. Prime Minister, I have pointed out during my work in committee that these concessions will not be covered by IT companies, which are definitely a driving force for innovation because they do not carry out R &amp; D under the law. This is very important. In that case, I would like to ask, for example, for reflection during the work in the Senate or for an auto-correction, because there was such a desire at the committee meeting to take another look at this problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will regret that the entire IT industry will not be covered by this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u415	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 195 voted against - 228, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project, which aims to improve the legal environment of innovative activities, is very important for entrepreneurs. It passed through Parliament at an express pace, at one committee meeting lasting 1.5 hours. And that's not because, ladies and gentlemen, he was so perfectly prepared, but because they simply didn't answer the questions and about the many doubts that have been expressed, they haven't even been discussed. That is why I have a question for Prime Minister Gowin: Prime Minister, is this really what you want to do to improve the legal environment? Is it a matter of speedy, expressly throwing a bill through Parliament, preventing any further committees and clarifying doubts? Do you have to go upstairs without a hold? Prime Minister, it would be nice if you could at least make eye contact with me, I would at least be aware that you are interested in this at all, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, there's still a chance in the Senate to examine this bill very carefully and to fix the problems, and the senators. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform will definitely get involved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u417	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Science and Higher Education, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to clarify that the second innovation law was created in the course of more than one year's consultation, especially with the business community, as a result of the White Paper on Innovation, in which entrepreneurs made dozens of their demands, the vast majority of which were taken into account in this project. I very much thank all the parliamentary clubs for their support during the work of this committee, regardless of the accents of the completely non-essentials that fell in today's discussion, although I have listened very carefully to Mrs Schmidt's comments, because indeed Mrs Schmidt's request would be justified in substance if not for the fact that the concept of innovative activity is not yet defined in Polish law and the Ministry of Development is working on this definition. It will be accepted next year. [[A little louder, Mr. Chairman can't hear.]] Thank you again for very harmonious work to build a bridge between the world of Polish science and the world of Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u419	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1981, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote - 429, no one voted against, two Members abstained. The Sejm Act amending certain laws to improve the legal environment of innovative activities has passed. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft act on the Institute of Solidarity and Courage. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1978-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Elizabeth Raven to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit an additional report to the Committee on Culture and Media. During the second reading of the draft act on the Institute of Solidarity and Courage, a proposal was made to reject the project and 19 amendments. These include legislative amendments defining and clarifying the organisation and tasks of the Institute, but also amendments amending the name of the Institute, and thus the title of the Act is to be: the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. These amendments, together with the consequences, were unanimously adopted by the Committee on Culture and Media. The amendment establishing the new medal of Virtus et Fraternitas, which is to be given to the Polish nation in both the country and abroad in the work of caring for memory or helping people of Polish nationality or Polish citizens of other nationalities who are victims of Soviet crimes, Nazi German crimes, crimes for nationalist reasons or other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes since 8 November 1970, i.e. the explosion of the eighth, I apologize, 1917 - 100 years ago the Bolshevik revolution erupts on that day. I would like to inform the High House that the Committee on Culture and Media carried out its first reading and considered the draft resolution on condemning ideology and the consequences of the Bolshevik revolution. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: This is at this point?]] The modern representative requested that this project be rejected at first reading and then left the committee's meeting, not wanting to work on its content, so it was not what Mrs Lubnauer said. [[But that's not about it.]] It was simply about rejecting this request. I inform the High House that the resolution on condemning ideology and the consequences of the Bolshevik revolution... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But this is the wrong point.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[That's not the point.]] ...is ready for adoption by the High House by acclamation. There was no approval from all the clubs, there was a protest from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u421	But, Member, I think that's...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u422	Back to the report: at today's meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u423	Yes, ma'am. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u424	... The Committee on Culture and Media, after considering the proposal and amendments, has taken a negative view of the proposal to reject the draft act on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity and has given a positive opinion on all the amendments tabled to the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u425	Let me remind you, it's a 1978 print. I will put to the vote, first of all, a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Then, if not adopted, amendments. The adoption of this proposal will render the remaining proposals futile. The Commission, I remind you, requests that this proposal be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur's voice reassured me that the proposal to reject this draft law in its entirety is a proposal that is absolutely right. The rapporteur spoke of a resolution, as if she had ignored the substance of the matter, so it is evident that this law is not so important, it is not so valuable. And here's the question: Is there any substantive reason to set up a new institution at a time when this new institution is going to deal with at least a few, if not a dozen institutions? The only reason we're setting up the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude is because a few historians just haven't found employment in the IPN and there's a need to find new jobs for them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u427	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to point out to Mrs Kruk that the resolution you and Kukiz prepared15... [[And the Civic Platform.]] ...was extremely graphical and primitive and shared Polish society. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Under the pretense of adopting this resolution... [[Voice from the room: Learn.]] ...you just wanted to smuggle in your political interests. There isn't, and there won't be permission in this Seym. That's one thing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u429	I return, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u430	Second...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u431	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u432	Don't interrupt me, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u433	Speak about it, sir. [[All of a sudden, watch out.]] We're not talking about the Institute of Solidarity and Courage...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! This is linked to a project that the Members of the Law and Justice have proposed because this project, which concerns the Institute of Solidarity and Courage, is, in my opinion, an aberrationary example. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs Katarasińska mentioned that there are other institutions that can deal with this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u435	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u436	But if we were spent on this institute... [[Okay, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u437	Thank you. Mr Niesiołowski, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u438	But you interrupted me, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u439	Thank you, sir. Please leave the podium. Mr Niesiołowski, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I reply briefly to Mrs Raven, because she referred to this resolution on the coup, the armed coup. There was no October revolution. It's a communist language. I don't think you've just read it. It is a gibberish resolution, full of historical nonsense and is not suitable for anything. So it is very good that over this PiS-ovsky [[Applause]] We don't debate with gibberish. And as for the very thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u441	Mr President, please use the words... [[But don't interrupt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u442	...laws on the institution of valor, I fully agree. This is a very good idea, this is one of the top achievements... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ... PiS political thought. I fully share that, but I only have such a small request for Members of the PiS. She's a little long. Would it not be possible to introduce such a declaration of patriotism: I will snitch Józka with Kryśka, I will be a whistleblower in the PiS? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Like that's not much to be happy about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u443	Mr. Speaker! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this way, using such words, you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. I'm gonna have to reprimand you more in the future. [[The voice from the room: I will snitch on you, too.]] We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 169 voted against 256 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose the title of the Act to be replaced by the following: "The Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Valour." Amendments 2, 6, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15 and 17 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u444	Yeah, I'll finish. This institute is not necessary at all. Period. The Institute of Solidarity and Courage, which has the name it has, is, of course, a imitation of Yad Vashem, but in Polish it sounds weak. I propose to you a different name: the Institute of Solidarity and Caution. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u445	Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to ask whether this proposal for amendment of the applicants, consisting in the fact that the name of the Institute of Solidarity and Courage is to be converted into the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, is influenced by the actions of Mr Tarczyński. That's one thing. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Secondly, the Institute would organise conferences, engage in publishing activities or produce high-level films. I wanted to ask if this institution would happen to be the same as the Polish National Foundation, which spent 19 million PLN on lying billboards. This isn't settled until today. [[Applause]] And thirdly, I wanted to ask you if it wouldn't be like this movie about rabbits, the famous NFZ film, which in the course of its activities allocated PLN 3 million. I wanted to ask if there would be production of this centre at an equally high artistic level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u447	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments I have already mentioned, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 368, against - 45, 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 2 applicants propose to add a new wording to the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. The vote was 329, against - 52, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Game in the O.R.]] But don't yell, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 2. Amendments 5, 7 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 4, 5, 7 and 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 375 votes against - 42, 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. 6 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. Amendments 18 and 19 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is related to the establishment of a director, a director, the distribution of new posts. Since you are changing this name and you are talking about courage first and then about bravery, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Minister Glinski if he has the courage to tell us all who will benefit from these new positions since 2017, who will benefit, whether your colleagues or perhaps your colleagues, Minister Gowin, or perhaps the Minister of Justice. Be brave, masculine like this institute and tell Poles, because just now your colleague talked about the fact that your budget has sensationally positive results. If it's so sensationally positive, why don't you have the courage, the bravery to raise the budget for residents and doctors, and not spend it on your propaganda? Do you have the courage, Minister, to say who all this is for? [[Applause]] [[Get off the stand.]] [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u449	Madam President, this is a question, to put it mildly, not appropriate. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 9, 18 and 19 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 380 against - 42, with seven abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 12th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 16. This amendment is linked to the 16th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 12 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 372, against - 43, with 9 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question will be asked by Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm so glad the Prime Minister's back. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister: Are you able to spend PLN 75 million on an institution that is completely unknown within two days? - or how many people she's gonna hire, where she's gonna be, or who's gonna be her director? It is not enough, it is to be an institute of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, only that the project was parliamentary, and the Minister of Culture and National Heritage had nothing to say about it. So I understand that the Prime Minister will answer this question. We have such a rationalistic idea because we have not been given the name of the director, and it must be someone very brave and someone very brave, so we have two candidates from the members of the Club of Law and Justice. One is Mr Piotrowicz and the other is Mr Tarczyński. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u451	Thank you. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that the Prime Minister has returned because perhaps now Minister Gliński will have a little more courage in front of you all here. Minister, really a little bit of courage, because creating a new institution is really pointless. As my colleagues have already said, there is an IPN which has a very large budget for exactly the same activities. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this institute be called either an institute to draw money from the budget, Minister, or an institute to duplicate other institutes. [[Don't show off.]] I've got 30 seconds left. Minister, please have some courage and tell the Poles and Poles, doctors, doctors, residents, what you want to spend more money on this fantastic budget. [[Voice from the room: Madera.]] Why don't you have the courage to give that money exactly where it needs to be? Be at least once in the heart of Poles and do something for Poland, not just for yourself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u453	Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u454	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I understand that modern Members are denying this law, because the subject matter of the law is generally not directly applicable to any of them. That's one thing. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I have a question for President Schetin. Is it right for Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasinska to speak about this particular law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What kind of question is that?]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[You don't hold standards, really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u455	We proceed with the vote on... Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, the Law and Justice Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A question for the Prime Minister of Gliński. Does this bill finally give the Polish government a chance to conduct an effective historical policy, which has not really been in Poland for many years? Finally, can the Polish state afford to respond to allegations that also appear on the international stage against Poles, our fathers and fore-fathers? [[Stop making history into politics.]] Is it worth spending money from the state budget to defend the honour of Poles and the Polish state? You're talking about the fact that there are no personal offers. These personal proposals will appear later. First, there must be an institution whose main task will be to promote the Polish patriotic attitude and defend it on the international stage. If they can do it is effectively Germany, the State of Israel, let us follow these good examples and try to do the same equally effectively. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u457	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u458	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Does it make sense to spend 75 million on creating a new institution? After all, part of this amount will necessarily have to be spent on its own administration and operating costs. Wouldn't it be better to give 75 million PLN to the Polish Academy of Sciences, which has a budget not much bigger than the planned budget of the institute, or such well-deserved organizations, with such a huge amount of work, such as. The Charter research centre, which documents Polish bravery, the fate of Poles in the East, on inhuman soil, and which today, after years, cooperates with many international organizations and associations that support Poles in this research, and which due to lack of finance must reduce its facilities and research programs? That would be much better spending this money than creating a new institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u459	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Since the issue is serious, it concerns public funds, I wanted to confirm: yes, Poland needs a serious historical policy and serious research. [[Applause]] [[Historical research, not politics.]] For several decades, very important elements, periods of Polish history, have not been studied. We need to make up for this time, and that is why we need a serious scientific institution, which will study Polish history and influence the conduct - it is obvious, because it is the responsibility of the Polish government, the Polish state - a responsible historical policy. Once again, I wanted to say that this is not money that can be spent on other purposes. This is money that can be transferred in accordance with the Science Finance Act to a scientific institution. It's not a one-year grant, it should last for a few years with reasonable planning. On the other hand, Commissioner, it is for you - because I am a very scary and shy person, I will ask my co-driver... [[Joy in the Chamber]] a co-worker, a minister, my colleague, a co-worker, a minister Magdalena Gawin, so that you can answer substantively and calmly why we want to set up this institution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u461	Thank you. Minister Gawin is still reporting. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I've talked about the institute three times, but I'm going to tell it for the fourth time. If Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus had not come out of the meetings of the Committee on Culture, she would certainly have known a lot about this institution that I have been talking about for two hours today. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Really, what an effort.]] I would like to start with the basic issue, i.e. by name. [[Don't lecture us.]] [[A little humility, Minister.]] Why is the word "manhood" there? Why is this important, important? Because the word "manhood" also means courage and virtue. It is also a term rooted very well in political philosophy and is well translated into English, and all of this refers authentically to those values which guided people who saved Poles and Polish citizens during the war. [[Don't wave a finger at us.]] This is indeed an important institution and a good time to start researching it. I wanted to say that Poland, the Polish state, has a great debt of gratitude to people who saved Poles during the war. [[Applause]] [[Don't wave a finger.]] We've never rewarded them. Moreover, I believe that rewarding Poles, rewarding foreigners for helping Poles during the war, has a very important educational value. First of all, because today we are struggling with difficult history, with Polish-Ukrainian relations. We see an increase in nationalism in Ukraine. [[Leave it to the professionals.]] I think this is a good part of education. We should not only talk about what is wrong, we should not only condemn flagism, but we should also reward people in Ukraine who think differently and who helped Poles very much. [[Applause]] I just wanted to say one more thing: to set up this kind of institute... I, thanks to Minister Gliński, set up an institute for them 1.5 years ago. Pilecki and I have excellent experience. I know how to do it, and I know how much research it takes. First of all, I wanted to say one thing: Decoration is the final result of work and research. This is not done separately. In 1956 and 1997 Poland gave away a significant part of the archival stock that went to Germany. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] Unfortunately, original documents from the trials, investigations and photos were also returned. We need to replenish this resource. And that's one of the important tasks. [[Applause]] Secondly, I would also like to say that in April 2017, UN archives were declassified, which concern crimes committed during the war. They were classified until this year. A huge resource of these matters concerns the government of emigration and counterintelligence of the Home Army, as well as the situation on occupied Polish lands. [[IPN's on it. Solve the IPN.]] [[IPN.]] We will do everything we can to recover this resource and bring it to Poland. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have been asked several times why this is not being done by another institution, what is the scope of the work here. First of all, we imagine that this institution will also very much support and develop the activities of a research centre on totalitarianism. These are two institutions that will cooperate closely with each other, which are needed in Poland. After World War II, as you know, there was a commission to investigate German crimes, then turned into a commission to investigate Nazi crimes, which she collected, estimated, over 100,000. statements of Polish citizens. They're scattered, they're in various investigations, trials. We need to gather them together. During 1.5 years of activity of the Pilecki center we gathered approx. 4,000. certificates, of which more than half are translated into English. [[The IPN does it.]] Not only politicians come to us, but most of all teachers, professors from Western Europe, who very much benefit from these certificates. It is one of the ways of popularizing knowledge about Central and Eastern Europe and Poland in the West. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that we need this institution very much for all reasons. As the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, which oversees the activities of the future institution, we will do everything we can to ensure that it fulfils its basic tasks in order to serve Poland and Poles well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u463	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1978, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 259 voted against - 163, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you!]] We are returning to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. The additional committee report is in print No 1982-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Robert Telus to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present to you an additional report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system, print No 1975. At its 51st meeting on 9 November 2017, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 1982 to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The above-mentioned committees, after considering the application and amendments at their meeting on 9 November 2017, recommend that the High Sejm reject the application which was submitted by the Kukiz club15 and the amendments which were tabled by the Civic Platform and the Modern Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u465	Thank you, sir. I'd like to remind you that it's a 1975 print. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Let me remind you that the committees are requesting that this request be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A proposal to reject a draft law is based on a number of conditions. I'm just gonna say two. The first concerns an outrageous, unacceptable way to proceed with this bill. The Land Protection Act has been in force for a year and a half. Nothing's changed, no cataclysm, nothing's going on, and the government wants to reschedule this bill very quickly within six days. Where is respect for citizens? Second reason. I asked a few questions yesterday during the debate. The Minister did not know the answer to these questions. He said he'd answer in writing. Out of respect for the sovereign and for Minister Naimski, we must wait for this answer so that we know how to vote. Why don't we respect the sovereign? Why do we not respect Poles by taking this bill so quickly, on our knees? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u467	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u468	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! That's what I asked you today, but I still don't really know the answer to the question of what's going on in this bill. If you don't know what's going on, it's usually about money. If it were a one-off transaction, it would be enough for the Minister to give you permission to merge, buy land from a company governed by commercial law or a company of the Treasury by a company of the Treasury. The problem would be solved. It's ridiculous that you want to change the law under some kind of transaction. The question is, what is it? What's in this bill, Mr. President? I do not know whether you know that apart from the fact that companies of the Treasury will be able to acquire agricultural land today, they will still be able to have a special share, the possibility of taking over shares and shares of companies under commercial law. What's the record in this bill for? What do you want to nationalise so urgently that this law had to go through all its readings in this House for three days? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u469	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 188, against - 229, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the draft law amending the applicant by giving a new wording to the amendment 1. They propose that any company governed by commercial law should be a buyer of agricultural property. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Gowin! That's, among other things. I am directing these words to you now. Already a year and a half ago, I told you that the agricultural system bill would cause investment paralysis in our country. I hear you've been saying the same thing lately. I therefore call on you to support our amendment, because in this amendment we propose that companies governed by commercial law have rights identical to those of companies governed by the Treasury. It cannot be that someone who is now a great economic liberal is voting against such amendments. Companies governed by commercial law must have the same rights as companies governed by the Treasury. We cannot allow the privileged role of the regulator, which is also a distributor. [[Applause]] [[It's the same thing. Learn it. State Treasury companies are commercial law companies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u471	The question is asked by Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Prime Minister, I have a huge request for you to convene a meeting of the Council of Ministers and ask your ministers, who are still ministers and with which companies of the Treasury will be asking for the amendment of the agricultural system law. This is the fourth amendment, we're cutting this bill like a cake. Each company of the State Treasury recalls that this is a wrong, thoughtlessly written law that could be written in such a way as to predict that all state investment in this country needs land. [[In Poland, not in this country.]] All state investments in this country... [[In Poland.]] ...in Poland, Member, they will need land. ♪ Every time we do ♪ Any investment in Poland, will we change the agricultural system law? Prime Minister, I ask you to call the Council of Ministers and question your ministers so that once and for all, we properly prepare a good bill in place of this ill-written bill, thoughtlessly, by the weak [[♪ The bell ♪]] officials. [[Applause]] [[Reliable?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u473	Thank you. However, I would ask you to ask questions about a specific vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 174 voted against - 244, with one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 3 applicants propose that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 189 voted against - 229, with 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, Members are asked questions. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a few questions for Minister Naimski. Minister, for what purpose do the transfer companies of the State Treasury have the extraordinary privilege of acquiring shares or shares in commercial law companies which are owners or users of perpetual agricultural land? Does this mean that through transmission companies there can be nationalisation of agricultural land in Poland? Does this mean that the transmission companies will carry out agricultural activities, with the possibility of receiving direct payments? Why are State Treasury transmission companies building their monopoly at the expense of agriculture? One more thing, Minister. I would like to know how Baltic Pipe's energy investment will be implemented. Are the fishing environments informed of how this investment will be implemented? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the last. Mr. Marshal, all this fuss with this bill reminds me of a situation in which a man bought himself a modern car, and told everyone about it...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u475	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u476	...but this car needed repairs every day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u477	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u478	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the proposed bill. In view of what strategic factors for the state's energy security must this solution be dealt with in such a short period of time? I understand that one card six days before the procedure is not a good idea. It would take a little thought to see if, despite such a short text, there was something hidden there. How important is it for the energy security of the state to have this solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u479	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I'm not going to ask Minister Naimski because it's not his fault, it's the fate of the Minister of Agriculture that he can't put the pipe down today because those are the conditions. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: What's next? We're shutting down another group. We've turned off, I remind you, miners, gas workers, today we have banks, parishes. How many more companies are we gonna shut down? But I have a further question. We warned you this was a bad bill. What about the farmers? For they are the hosts of this land, and they also want to invest. Does the Minister of Agriculture intend to liberalize this law and simply help farmers? Because we are helping everyone, but not those who live on this earth who cultivate this land. We also do not help Polish entrepreneurs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish entrepreneurs who want to invest and who have been hindered by this law by the development of business activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u481	Thank you, sir. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u482	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that after a year and a half, we can safely say that the agricultural system law is simply a disgrace to Law and Justice. The law was supposed to protect the Polish land from redemption by foreigners. These guys buy a lot more land than they buy. But who does he protect from? In front of farmers who are in financial difficulties or who are in a difficult situation of life and are unable to dispose of their property in a loose, voluntary manner. In front of Poles who would like to settle in rural areas. From entrepreneurs who can't buy land to realize their planned investment projects. This amendment is the best proof that also before companies of the State Treasury - in carrying out the tasks imposed by the State. Make one good rewrite. Unfortunately, we cannot support this law, we will not vote in favour today. Although we're in favour of sealing it up, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can't allow, like I said, a privileged position...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u483	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u484	...a company of the Treasury vis-à-vis all entities, vis-à-vis commercial companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u485	Thank you very much, thank you. The Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, a representative of the government for strategic energy infrastructure Piotr Naimski, asks for the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all... [[Start with the other one.]] ...a few words about this bill. The Act is an amendment that facilitates the acquisition of agricultural land by three actually defined entities, which are not ordinary companies of the State Treasury, but are strategic entities, tools of the Polish state. These are transmission system operators - energy, gas and fuel. As important entities for State security, they must also carry out investment activities - they must carry out investment activities which often require the purchase of agricultural land. The liberalisation, and indeed the facilitation, of the removal from the regime which is currently in force under the law, of the purchase process by these land companies is an facilitation, which is primarily intended to provide a security where agricultural parcels which are required to expand the activities of operators can move into other hands. Under no circumstances does this law override the obligation to sell land to operators. It is only a law that allows this transaction to be carried out in a completely market manner, but without proving in the public process that no one other than the operator is showing interest in this land, because this is one of the conditions that allows the Director General of the national agricultural centre to grant consent to the transaction. This law, therefore, does not restrict farmers' rights to land or the right to acquire or dispose of agricultural land in any way. I will tell you more, she makes it easier for those farmers who want to sell their land, to sell it not only to other farmers, but also to those operators. The price of this transaction will, of course, be market-oriented and, as I say, there is no obligation on the landowner to sell it. On the other hand, I would like to say two words on a subject which is not in my competence, which falls within the competence of the Minister for Agriculture, and concerns a broader discussion here on the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. Well, the law in force proved to be a very good law, because the pathologies that took place in the land were stopped by that law. In the course of its implementation and at the same time the conduct of various economic processes has emerged from the experience of requests which lead to the amendment of this law, to allow for easier trading in situations that actually require it. Today's amendment is one such situation. By doing so, we will have at all times under the control of the fundamental purpose of this law, namely the sealing of agricultural land. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u487	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1975 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 230 voted against - 182, 9 abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the amendment of the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1883. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1883, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 413-1 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm has passed a law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. The additional committee report is in print No 1924-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Anna Maria Siakowska to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committees: the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I would like to present the Commission's position on the proposals for rejection of the bill. The proposals were submitted by the Modern Club and around the Union of European Democrats. The joint committees recommended that these proposals be rejected. As regards the four amendments tabled by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, the joint committees also decided to reject them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Ania!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u489	Thank you. We will vote first on the motion for rejection and amendments. I will now put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. The committees, I remind you, are asking for this motion to be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Shooting range in every county - says Deputy Minister of National Defence. And indeed it must be admitted that there is something symbolic in this bill, not only because the eagles are converted into monuments and shooting galleries, but the shooting range+ program is much more than that, because here is the novel war doctrine of Antoni Macierewicz. No country has ever figured that out. Minister Macierewicz proposes that we disarm the army by not buying him equipment and arming civilians with weapons and shooting galleries. For the first time in the history of Poland and the world, the military is not supposed to defend civilians, only civilians are supposed to defend the army. And I think you'll agree that this is absolutely absurd. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I ask you, after six months, how many helicopters did Minister Macierewicz buy? Zero. And how many drones did Minister Macierewicz buy? [[Voices from the O.R.: Zero.]] Zero. And how many tanks did Minister Macierewicz buy? [[Voices from the O.R.: Zero.]] So today Minister Macierewicz tells Poles one thing: Defend yourselves, because the army will not protect you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u491	This is a political statement, sir, not a question. I would like to point out that we are in question mode. [[Three questions, at least.]] Mr Marek Owl, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister High Izbo! Mr President, less than a month ago, when he signed the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces, he said: We need more money to modernise the Polish army so that we can fulfil our allies' obligations. Meanwhile, we all know that the implementation of the Armed Forces modernisation programmes leaves much to be desired. The programs of the Vistula, Narew, are severely delayed, helicopters are gone, and the Navy's equipment looks good only on pictures. Instead of strengthening surveillance and speeding up the process of modernisation, the PiS Members offer us two additional new programmes: a shooting range in each municipality and a monument on every street. I would like to ask, is this what our allies in NATO expect? [[Applause]] [[Yeah, that's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u493	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The Kukiz Club15 will not support this proposal because we have learned the cynicism of the Platform when it comes to caring about the funding of local governments. Question. Why didn't the Platform adopt the income compensation law of JST, 8 billion? It was a citizen's initiative of self-government. Today you cry over local governments and income. Question to the government side, to the minister: How many shooting galleries were closed in the days of the Civic Platform? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: half a billion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u495	Thank you. Anna Maria Siarkowska, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. First of all, I would like to ask whether Members of the Civic and Modern Platform have even read the bill? Because the bill, Mr Tomczyk, does not apply in any way [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] issues related to access to arms. That's not the bill. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Secondly, Mr Owl, this law does not apply to the modernisation programmes of the Vistula and the Narew. What, then, is this law about? [[Game in the O.R.]] This bill is purely...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u497	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u498	... gives the Ministry of National Defense the opportunity to subsidize... [[Is that a question?]] ...the projects of local governments, which would be about setting up a shooting range, locally, in their district, so that the Ministry of National Defence could subsidize such projects. He doesn't oblige anything. [[The voice from the room: It's useless.]] [[And monuments, Anne, and monuments.]] Of course, the second very important element of this law is the possibility for the Ministry of National Defence to subsidize the creation of local monuments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which commemorate the glory and tradition of Polish weapons. [[A monument in every municipality.]] I ask the High House to support this very good bill. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u499	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. What was the point of adopting a law increasing the financing of the Polish army and its technical modernisation more than 2% .2.1.2.5 - Since your government is unable to spend 2% on the initiative of President Bronisław Komorowski for this purpose? Almost PLN 4 billion from the budget, which was intended to be used for technical modernisation of the Polish army, was spent on planes for transporting civilians, VIPs. Now you offer money, some estimate that even in the amount of up to 2.5 billion PLN, for the construction of shooting galleries and for the construction of monuments. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] Do you not think that this is on the one hand cheating Polish voters, cheating Poles, and on the other hand simply stealing from the Polish Army, for which these funds should be intended for technical modernisation... [[Voice from the hall: What are you talking about?]] ...not for the construction of shooting galleries. The Deputy Minister himself admits, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that it will be mostly for civil organizations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u501	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of National Defence Michał Dworczyk asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'm answering a question about the number of closed shooters. In the two thousand years 61 objects were closed, while 52 shooting galleries are currently operating. Here I answer as Deputy Minister of National Defence. On the other hand, as a Member, I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentarians who are attacking this parliamentary draft amending of the law to postpone the political theatre for a moment, because we have the opportunity, together voting, to vote on a good change in the law, a change which will give us, on the one hand, the opportunity to subsidise those local authorities that are interested. If you want to build shooting galleries, it will have a positive impact on the development of shooting sport, the development of pro-defence sports, and by the way many garrisons will have the opportunity to exercise on these facilities. Please support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What about my questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u503	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. There was 156, against 261, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the law on the income of local government units. In the first amendment to Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants shall propose a different wording to the added point 5c. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In terms of shooters traditionally self-governments no one asks for opinions. Why? Do you really know best what local Poland needs? For local roads 800 million PLN, but at the shooting range 2.5 billion PLN. Well, what power, such priorities. And, of course, the Sarmatian vision of state defense. Either way, it's a defence function, an important function of the state. So why won't the MON take responsibility for the shooting range if it'll fund it so generously? This amendment aims to ensure that you also accept responsibility for the day-to-day functioning of the shooting range. It's about the basic logic of your project and the logic of your actions. Another amendment is even more important because it reduces the participation of local authorities in this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm paying attention to that and I'm asking for logic in action. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u505	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about shooting ranges, which is an element that has a positive impact on the security and defence of the state. Therefore, while we are talking about defence and security, I would like to ask a question specifically addressed to Minister Dworczyk. I don't see the Minister. Minister, when will the military units be protected be over? 'Cause I'm still afraid that's my cue. They'll be protected by security companies. It can't be like this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u507	I just don't know if this question refers to the first amendment. Mr Dominik Tarczynski, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd really like to talk substantively, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because the charges... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because the charges are all the time and concern finance. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I don't understand the question again.]] Mr Nitras, I do not know how you operate in these ranks, but I see you are aroused. I'd really like to ask if these places... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[It never worked out for you, but try it.]] So I'd like to ask you substantively, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] whether the Civic Platform has already settled and explained out of 30,000. Mendeleev's plates, what kind of company took the money and what these plates are for. [[To be smarter.]] I would also like to ask the Minister about 30,000. Mendeleev's plates, which are out there somewhere in the basement, purchased by you, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ask if this is your strategy. And I would also like to assure you that these shooting galleries in case you don't give God's aggression... [[Don't assure me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u509	Mr, uh, but, uh...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u510	...take you under their wing. We'll take care of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u511	Mr President, ask a question about the amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u512	I hope there's no need for that. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u513	You're talking about a completely different subject, well, excuse me. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 379, against - 32, with six abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 42 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u514	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! To the question of an esteemed colleague of Anna Sierkowski, whether the Civic Platform has become familiar with this project, I would like to answer yes. I'm familiar with this project, my friend, and we know what changes are made there. Nevertheless, without seeing the Minister of National Defence here, I am directing my doubts to the attention of the Prime Minister. Dear Prime Minister, poorer Romania is buying patriots and F-16s without undue delay. The poorer, smaller Lithuania buys armatohaubice and Norwegian medium-range anti-aircraft defense systems. What about us? We're spending public money from the Ministry of National Defense... [[Nicely read.]] ...for the construction of shooting galleries and monuments-columns. If this is to ensure greater security for Poles, I congratulate you on this idea, because it will not be. And I have a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u515	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u516	Is one... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u517	No, no. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u518	...from columns for a century... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u519	I'm so sorry, ma'am. You had to fit in with your speech in time. [[But don't interrupt, Marshal. It's terrible, really.]] ...to ask questions. [[Game in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. I'll be by the name of the country that screams. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 161 voted against - 251, with 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 42 applicants propose to give a different wording to the added paragraph. 12 and delete the added paragraph. 13. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform supports the construction and renovation of shooting galleries, but does not support the militarization of Polish society. It's the wrong direction... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ... Minister Antoni Macierewicz. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You received a huge budget from the government - 40 billion PLN. Why doesn't the Minister of National Defense Antoni Macierewicz build shooting galleries, just want to take care of the old-timers or mayors? Minister Antoni Macierewicz is responsible for training the Territorial Defence Army, his army. There's nowhere to shoot. It's in the justification of this bill. That's why the old men are supposed to build shooting galleries so that the WOT soldiers have a place to practice. I mean, this is paranoid. And whether the Minister of National Defence will provide the means to maintain these shooting sites, for fences, for protection, for heating, for cleaning, etc.? I mean, it's totally gonna cost the government budgets. We can't let that happen. And here we go. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't tell us we're against this kind of initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u521	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u522	That's a reasonable thing to do...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u523	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u524	...not on crazy papers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u525	We'll proceed with the vote. Let me remind you: we are voting on the third amendment, not on the case in general. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 162 voted against - 258, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the inserted article. 42a applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The construction of shooting galleries in each district is an interesting idea, but I would like to point out that in each district they operate, often with centuries-old tradition, chicken fraternitys, which have their own shooting range. There's no county that doesn't have a chicken sorority range. Why build new ones if you could make these very old associations, chicken fraternitys, financially support them so they can share them. In my hometown, Władysław IV Waza granted a privilege allowing the operation of a chicken fraternity. You don't know that... [[Did you?]] ...you don't know Polish traditions at all, you're introducing new ones. And when it comes to monuments-columns, when it comes to this amendment, I suggest that instead of the monuments-columns, Antoni Macierewicz spends money on only one column - on the hungarian for himself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u527	The question is asked by Anna Maria Siarkowska, a club called Law and Justice. Just a question, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u528	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Perhaps he could explain to Mr Suski, who asks... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u529	Excuse me, Member. Gentlemen, sit down. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Well, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u530	Mr Paweł Suski...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u531	Gentlemen, sit down. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u532	Mr Paweł Suski asked if the Minister for National Defence would allocate funds to maintain the shooting range. I ask the Member of the applicant to reply to Mr Suski. [[Director?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u533	There you go. Member Wojciech Skurkiewicz is acting on behalf of the applicants. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I do not know what Mr Suski is doing in the sitting room, but we have just supported the amendment, which clearly indicates that it will also be the Ministry of National Defence that will have the opportunity to finance the maintenance of the shooting galleries that we are discussing today. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] All you have to do is listen with understanding. Another thing. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is very important, very necessary and awaited. It is expected by all those whose patriotic values are particularly close, especially all those who practice defences in paramilitary, pro-defense organizations, about which the Civic Platform has completely forgotten for the last 8 years. You've eliminated 60 shooting ranges. [[Come on...]] And today you say that you do not agree to rebuild this potential, thanks to which young people, very often young people, can exercise their eye to serve their homeland as well. But I would like to draw your attention to one more point. It will not be an obligation for the local government to build a shooting range in its municipality, within its county. It will only be a good will, whether the local government will be able to apply for a refinance of the funds paid for the construction of the shooting range or not. And I'm going for a wager, for every money, that in the first place this money from the Ministry of National Defence will be taken by the mayors, mayors and presidents just from the Civic Platform, to please the conservative electorate, to please the young people who have never voted for you or will probably never vote for you. [[Applause]] I strongly urge that there be less politics, and more mererytics over this bill. Let us accept it over any political divisions. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u535	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 161 voted against - 259, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole project, the question is put by Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I would like to make it very clear and stress once again that the MON and the military should build shooting galleries, but they should do it out of their own budget - with 2% GDP... [[2.5% will be.]] ...of the 40 billion zlotys we handed over as the Sejm of the Ministry of National Defence. But the plan has to go with it, common sense has to go with it. We didn't hear that. We haven't heard anything about the rules either. Or maybe these rules are gonna be like this, or maybe they're gonna be like this. The ONR will have priority over these projects, and maybe the bald head and baseball bat will be a ticket to this shooting range? Do we know that right now? We don't know. But we've heard about more experiments today, only that these experiments, all these laws are implemented at the expense of the regular Armed Forces. And this is the biggest crime of all these experiments by Antoni Macierewicz. And as these experiments work, we saw in Pomerania when the PiS voivode said that the army wasn't from raking leaves. That's how territorial defence works. But to be a parade [[♪ The bell ♪]] In front of President Duda, it worked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u537	Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to say that this law with the modernisation programme has so much in common that it is financed by a 2% limit, and in the future this limit will be increased. Secondly, I would like to point out very clearly that no one defends the Ministry of National Defence to build shooters, but we do not understand why they want to disable themselves through local governments with their tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! I must say, anyway, that the construction of shooting galleries is certainly a better task than the radical increase in access to weapons offered to us by Mr Kukiza, with the support of Members of Law and Justice. But we really don't know, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Why are you pushing a law that doesn't say what financial means will be secured for this purpose? We don't know what the funding will be. We don't know how many shooters the Ministry of National Defense is planning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] support next year or whether it will participate in maintenance costs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u539	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u540	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We have learned today that there are Members in this House who are worried that Poles can defend themselves, that Poles can train, [[Applause]] that Poles can shoot, play sports safely, and young people in uniform classes will have a safe place to practice. Question to the Minister: Are there uniformed classes today, students of classes specializing in Border Guards, police, army, where to practice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u541	Thank you. Mr Michał Jach, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! When we introduced this law into the Sejm, it seemed to me that there would be a common consensus. This is so obvious, it is necessary in Poland also reported by local authorities to create such infrastructure that I was convinced that there would be a short and quick discussion. [[What's more important? Dying children.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised that the Civil and Modern Platform... [[The children die, the children must be treated.]] ...all the debates that are supposed to in any way strengthen the security of the state, because these shooters are going to indirectly affect future security of the state, and they're going to test it all, and they're going to introduce total obstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is contrary to the Polish state. I have a question for the Member. [[♪ The bell ♪]] applicant's representative: Is this law any threat or is it necessary for state security? [[Applause]] [[The children are sick, sir. For medicine, money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u543	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During this year's forum in Krynica, one of the most interesting panels was the one where an Israeli businessman showed the factors that make Israel's economy work very well. One of these factors that he pointed out was the universal military service that all Israelis, regardless of gender, go through. He showed that the combined abilities, the abilities that man acquires in the army - good organization, efficiency, discipline, command, activity in the group - are also crucial for business. If you follow the history of nations that have won not only military victories, but also in the field of administration, economy, they are nations with high military culture, with high military culture. Yes, that's why, according to what the National Movement had called for three years ago, the militarization of the nation - yes. Shooting range in every county, military training for high school - yes. And here I have the greatest attention to today's defence policy, which is... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Time.]] ...a regular army and its modern supplies. But this is a necessary project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u545	Thank you. There was a question to the representative of the applicants, so first I will ask Mr Skurkiewicz to answer this question. [[Who's asking?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u546	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A few words about reality and facts. For eight years of the Civic Platform, first Minister Klich, then... [[Cut it out. You've been in charge for two years.]] ...Mr Semoniak, was not issued under 1.95 and then 2% gross domestic product for national defence over PLN 12 billion. You did not spend over PLN 12 billion. [[That you've questioned the tenders.]] A word to Mrs Radziszewska, who shouts here to the speakers. Yes, children die, elderly people die, soldiers die too. Just pay attention to one thing - you've led to such a... [[You have to give that money to treatment, not at the shooting range.]] ...the situation, as General Drewniak said, former Air Force Commander, that [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Polish troops, thanks to your actions, Civic Platform, Polish aviation will be able only 4 hours... [[Mr President, the money from the budget for treating sick children, not at the shooting range.]] ...to defend yourself against any attack - four hours. [[Applause]] The safety of you, your family, Mr. Semoniak and every other citizen of Poland - 4 hours will be... [[With no conscience and no heart, you are. The money for the treatment of children must be given.]] ...you were defending yourself from any attack. And that's the big problem. You've disassembled the Polish army... [[Yes, sir.]] ...you have assembled the Polish army, you have led to such a situation that Poland is vulnerable. You have strengthened the defence potential of Poland on the western border, not on the eastern border. [[Money to your health.]] You've led to a scandalous situation where we're a defenseless country. [[Tell that to the parents of sick children.]] Antoni Macierewicz, the government of Law and Justice is rebuilding the morale of the army, the morale of the soldier. [[Yes. Yes, sir!]] Antoni Macierewicz and the Government of Law and Justice increase the security of Poland and Poles. [[Especially those who drink vodka.]] And whether you like it or not, we're gonna do it anyway, and screaming and banging a second-rate Civic Platform lady is not gonna do anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u547	Right now... Does the Minister of Defence want to speak? Deputy Minister of Defence Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u548	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I will only correct a few false statements which were deliberately cast by Members who were present during this discussion. I said on purpose, because I answered those questions yesterday. You all knew very well that you were saying the wrong thing today. Mr Wilczyński speaks of PLN 2.5 billion which is supposed to be allocated to this programme. I told you that there is absolutely no question of any amount, because in order for any budget to be created, the bill must first be amended. When we amend the bill, then the program will be created, the budget will be created. When we did the fitting, it was more about tens of millions of zlotys, i.e. the cost of two wolves, and thus hundreds of thousands of people in Poland will be able to practice on objects that will be built within a year. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Second thing. Mr Owl demands specific numbers, specific dates, timetables, etc. It is right that the Member demands this, the problem is that it is not at this moment, because we are not talking about the government programme, but about the amendment of the law, which will only allow for the preparation of the government programme. I urge you to read the draft laws with understanding. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And one last thing. Mrs Kamińska - I understand that the Member has good intentions, but I must say that it is like a bullet in the fence. The Member gives an example of Lithuania, which buys armatohaubice, and supposedly the Polish army does not acquire modern equipment. Well, I'd like to inform you that many purchases of state-of-the-art weapons have been made, including the Government of Law and Justice signed... [[Old leopards.]] ...in 2016 the contract for one of the most modern in the world canrmatohaubice, crabs, and the first crabs are already in the units of the Polish Army. So much for facts. And I ask you to vote this bill together. She is needed both to local governments and pro-defense organizations, and to organisations involved in shooting sports, and to uniformed services and the military. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Michael!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u549	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1924, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 267 voted against - 153, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the law on the income of local government units. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1941-A. I ask Mrs Anna April to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the deregulation committee an additional report on the work of the committee, print No 1941-A, relating to the draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system, print No 1891. The Act has the task of making minor amendments to four laws, i.e. in the Labour Code, the law on the recognition by courts of labour and social security cases, the law on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens and the electoral code. The three amendments tabled in the second reading by Mr Piotr King representing the Law and Justice Club were unanimously adopted yesterday at the committee meeting. These amendments were proposed following a thorough examination of the Supreme Court's opinion. It is worth noting that they are accepted by the Legislative Office. Therefore, on behalf of the deregulation committee, I recommend that the High House adopt a law with the amendments proposed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u551	Thank you, Member. I remind you, it's a 1941 print. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 § 1 applicants propose that disputes for employment claims should be settled by common courts called labour courts. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment unanimously. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. There were 398 Members voted against, 1 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 3. amendment to the article. Point 4 (2) is editorial. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. There were 403 Members voted against, 1 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1941, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. I state that the Sejm unanimously passed a law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. This is how we should vote all the time, let's face it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government bill on insurance distribution. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft law from print No 1985. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1985 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 417 Members voted against, 2 against. I state that the Sejm has passed an insurance distribution bill. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1962-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u552	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure and the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws. High Izbo! At the second reading yesterday, seven amendments were tabled by the Law and Justice Club. The Commission has considered all the amendments positively and calls on the High House to adopt them and to adopt the entire draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u553	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's a 1962 print. We will vote on the amendments first. In the first amendment to Article. 108b of the Goods and Services Tax Act, applicants propose a different wording of paragraph 1. 4. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. In favour of 386 Members, 1 against, 26 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3 draft law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 382 Members voted against - 2, 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 3rd amendment to the Article of the Banking Law added in the Act. 62a applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 9. Amendments 6 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 3, 6 and 7 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 395 Members voted against - no one, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 12 in the Bank Law Art. 63d. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. There were 388 Members voted against - 1 and 22 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole project, Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice Club, is asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the reign of the Civic Platform and PSL, criminals who extorted VAT were not particularly persecuted by the Polish state. You could even say they were mostly impunityless. On the other hand, the tax offices were chasing Polish entrepreneurs who were dragged into the VAT carousel, and it was done in a ruthless way. Now it is the opposite: criminals are afraid, VAT is extorted in smaller sums, and Polish entrepreneurs get a tool in hand that will improve the safety of their functioning. I have a question for the Minister. Will entrepreneurs in Poland be able to effectively protect themselves against VAT carousels after the introduction of this law, and criminals will have difficult access to the instrument, which is the VAT-owska carousel? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u555	Thank you very much for this very interesting question, but you can answer that yes. Yes. The minister says yes. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1962, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[I'm all for it.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 415, no one voted against, four Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. [[Time out.]] We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1984-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present this report. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Arek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws, print No 1835. At its 51st meeting on 8 November 2017, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 1984 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Administrative and Home Affairs Commission, following the examination of the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 9 November 2017, makes the following proposal and amendments: The High Sejm. First, the motion to reject the bill - reject it. The same application was submitted by the Civic Platform Club and the Modern Club. Amendments 1 to... [[21.]] ...to 21. - also reject it. These are the amendments tabled by the Modern Posel Club and the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u557	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's a 1984 print. Alongside minority proposals, we have - in an additional report - a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and an amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants, which is the government. Are there any boundaries, ladies and gentlemen, any bodies that you don't want to politicize? You want to create party courts, you have created a party Constitutional Tribunal, and now you want to completely politicize Polish uniform services. In this law, you create a state in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of politburo, which is to verify the staff in fact so that you are sure that every candidate for leadership functions in the police will be a suitable political religion. But you're doing something even worse. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration will get access and insight into every operational procedure in Poland. This is a country without mode, a country that you create, so that everyone can collect hooks. This bill is suitable for basketball. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - and that is what I appeal to the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u559	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! What is this bill? [[I'll set it up.]] Why did this bill stand before the High House? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the result of an unhealthy fascination with special services. [[Why unhealthy?]] This law sets up another special service, the Office of Internal Supervision, and gives extremely dangerous tools to the Minister of Home Affairs, Minister Błaszczak, which goes completely beyond what the Minister should do. Under this law, the Minister will gain insight into all proceedings, materials from all proceedings that are conducted by the Police, through the Border Guard throughout Poland: from Augustów to Żyrardów. [[So what?]] Someone would be wrong to think it's about those things that are [[♪ The bell ♪]] as a result of the investigation of cases involving police officers. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] Minister Błaszczak will have access to all operational materials collected...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u561	Thank you, sir. The voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u562	...at the time of all proceedings throughout Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill must be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u563	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! Question. You're creating something like an external internal service, which is the one that's supposed to check and control the police as well. The question is: Isn't this law sometimes a confession directly or indirectly to how bad it is in the Polish Police, that you must create special civilian supervision, an external internal service that will only be able to master what is happening in the Polish Police? I ask you to take this question seriously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u565	Thank you. Mariusz Błaszczak will answer the Minister of Interior. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u566	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The question of why this law was submitted by the government to Parliament could be answered in this way: it is a law that breaks with post-communism... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[You're bringing it back.]] [[Shut up!]] ...is a law that gives the Minister of the Interior a mechanism for real supervision of subordinate services. Indeed, both in the communist system and later, in the times of post-communism, corporations themselves decided whether or not they were doing their job... [[You're a post-communist.]] ...in the right way or not. So it was fictional surveillance. Do you know of any corporation that would actually exclude from its ranks those who embezzled laws and principles? [[No.]] No, that wasn't the case. So we're breaking up with post-communism. Not one case, ladies and gentlemen, has been twisted in the police, in the Border Guard, not one and not two, but these days... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Wroclaw.]] ...will pass when the High House adopts the bill. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo for Wrocław.]] You're dreaming of the '90s, when there were judges sitting at one table, cops... [[Leave the judges out of this.]] ...all those who just grew up out of post-communism, all those who were out of social control, all those who... [[They're shooting pheasants now.]] ...caused that democratic mechanisms were only in theory, they were fictional. We're done with this fiction, ladies and gentlemen. [[Yes, sir.]] Democracy is that the nation elects its representatives who elect the government, including later the minister who must have... [[The people are wrong, they won't make any more mistakes.]] ...real tools for supervising subordinate services. Otherwise, he will be a minister who will not do anything, otherwise he will be a minister who will be deprived of real supervision over subordinate services. From this stand of the time Donald Tusk said about the Polish country that... [[The voice from the room: He had to.]] ...is a set of institutions with unclear links that are not obliged to citizens. We're done, ladies and gentlemen, with this philosophy. [[That's right, that's right, finally.]] [[Stop your complexes.]] Democracy is that, once again, the nation elects its representatives, who rule and, of course, are responsible for their governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u567	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. 150 votes against - 240, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests from 1 to 6 and all amendments were tabled to Article. 1 a draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. 1b applicants propose to delete point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u568	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! You have to tell the truth. This bill, which you have presented, deletes democratic mechanisms and introduces political mechanisms. This law is not about democratic supervision of the services that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration oversees, but about political supervision, the political use of the information that these services collect. Minister! Is it true that the correctness of the performance of the surgical and cognitive activities at the moment is controlled by the prosecutor's office and by the courts? Come here, please come here and tell the Poles: Do the courts and prosecutors really control the operations of the police and the Border Guard at the moment, and if so, why do you need to see all the documents, materials obtained in the framework of the operations carried out in the police and in the Border Guard? [[♪ The bell ♪]] all over Poland, from Augustów to Żyrardów?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u569	Thank you. There's an MP's voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u570	Minister! Tell me why you need to look into all these materials. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u571	... Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club. [[I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't fuck stupid, Fame.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u572	Thank you, Marshal. Minister Błaszczak is trying to cover one simple thing with big words. The Lord wants to see everything we do, but not us here, but Poles. [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: I am not interested in what you are doing.]] Aren't you interested? Shall I remind you of those who followed you to Petru, who followed people under the Seym? And to remind you how many people you're dragging into court just because they're against the power of the PiS? [[Applause]] [[Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: I am not dragging anyone in court.]] Don't argue with me here. [[Don't talk to him.]] You said, Minister, we dream of returning to the '90s. We're dreaming. Do you know why? Because in the '90s, you were a low-ranking official in Legionów with such a funny mustache, and it would be better for all of us if you stayed there. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It would be better for all Poles, not for us here, but for all Poles. Thank you. [[Legionary. What about Legionov?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u573	That wasn't a question. It's kind of hard to comment on. [[Legionally speaking, it doesn't add up.]] [[Keep getting high.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 156 votes against - 244. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment to the inserted article. 1b applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 168 votes against - 234, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the inserted article. 1b applicants propose to add a new wording to point 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. 155 voted against - 228, 21 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the inserted article. 1c propose to delete point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal and the 5th and 6th amendments. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This amendment we are trying to remove from the bill a provision allowing the Minister and his colleagues to see the results and all the material from the operational activities carried out by the Police, the Border Guard, and in the future also the State Protection Service, which is to replace the present-day BOR. At first reading, Minister Błaszczak argued that the law only applies to uniformed officers. That's not true. This law applies to all Poles. The Minister will have the opportunity to inspect all secret service activities concerning all Poles, regardless of whether at the end any charge will be made, simply all operational activities will be available to the Minister. You create this law completely unknown to the Polish law so far a mechanism of political communication about all sensitive activities carried out by [[♪ The bell ♪]] U.S. uniforms. I would like to ask the Minister: Why did you lie then...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u575	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u576	...public opinion, and he withheld... [[Voices from the room: Time.]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u577	We'll proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u578	...that this applies to all Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u579	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. The vote was 155, against 220, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the inserted article. 1c applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal and the 6th amendment. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just rejected the amendment which was deleted in the article. 1 point 2. Since Mr Błaszczak actually promised that all these activities would be limited to officers, we propose in this amendment to actually limit this. Therefore, we ask very much for the support of this amendment, because it says that if you already have an insight into this information as a service, it is that it should be limited only to the activities to which this special service is intended, namely to verify the activities of officers and not of all ordinary citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u581	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 186 voted against - 228. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to the added Article. 1c applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 6th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 159 votes against - 252. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th amendment to the inserted article. 1c point 2 of the applicant proposes to delete the words "and materials'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The draft law adopted by your government gave the Home Minister the opportunity to read only the results of the operational and research activities, i.e. the processed material, which would be properly identified. The problem is that, on Tuesday at the committee meeting, an amendment was introduced to the bill, which also extends the Minister's powers to access all the materials collected as a result of the operational and research activities carried out. So, after this amendment, the Minister will have the opportunity to read not only the wiretap protocols, but also the secret police agents' data, information about police sources. In practice, anyone who provides information to the police will have to consider that this information may one day be placed on the desk of the Minister or his colleagues. The communication of such information threatens to be disclosed to the police [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sources threatening to expose police agents... [[Voices from the room: Time.]] ...and it's just irresponsible to clear the rules that guarantee security today...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u583	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u584	...people who are...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u585	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u586	...e.g. Police operatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u587	We'll proceed to the vote...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u588	Prime Minister, I ask you to reflect... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u589	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 186 voted against - 224. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[You're gonna ruin everything.]] In the 7th amendment to the inserted article. 1c (3) propose that the applicant delete the words and read the materials. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 179 voted against - 228, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 7 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u590	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! From the 1996 Law, which counted 2.5 pages, you have made a law that counts 40 pages. The effect is that regulations that didn't wake up For 20 years of controversy, today they gain a completely different meaning. Today the trade unions, uniformed officers believe that art. Paragraph 7 1 as proposed by the government will be used precisely to combat trade unions and in practice can paralyze their activities. This amendment, which we are proposing today, eliminates the risk of these abuses, because it simply deletes the trade unions described in this provision from the catalogue. Prime Minister, during the election campaign, you were meeting with the union of uniformed services, so I would like to ask: Do you know the position of the Federation of Trade Unions of Uniform Services in this matter? Those unionists you met in 2015, today, they're asking us for help because they're afraid that their actions will be paralyzed just by [[♪ The bell ♪]] proposals from Minister Błaszczak. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 159 votes against - 255. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose to delete points 5 and 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 154 voted against - 245, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal, the following Article is added: Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The applicant shall submit a new wording to point 2 of point 3. a and delete point (a). b. The question is raised by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u591	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have a question for Minister Błaszczak if he understands this record we're talking about. This concerns the verification of both candidates for executive positions and all officers by the external unit that you are creating. And if you understand, do you realize what that means? Well, I'll tell you this means that you're actually depriving police chiefs, the Border Guard, because here's someone else who's gonna decide who they're taking to work. Another question. The original government submission only referred to the verification of candidates for commandant positions. Candidates. During his work, PiS noted that also those who are currently taking these positions. I understand, Minister, that this is simply a preparation for the cleansing of those people who are functioning today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u592	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 161 voted against 256 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third minority proposal, the following Article is added: Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Front.]] Don't yell. [[Don't turn your back on us.]] At what point? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 157 votes against 253 and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 10th amendment to the inserted article. Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The applicant shall propose to delete point 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 4th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 164 voted against - 252, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th minority proposal, the following Article is added: Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 7. [[Ahead to the Prime Minister.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 162 against 256. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 11th amendment to the inserted article. 11j paragraph. 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 5th minority proposal and the 12th amendment. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u593	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question. Have you been informed that the inspector of internal surveillance, a ministry official, that is, the right hand of Minister Błaszczak, will be able to commission operational and cognitive activities, namely surveillance, wiretapping, surveillance, registration, not only to police officers, because there is no such narrowing in the rule, in the article I am asking about, only to all citizens? [[Scandal!]] Is this a democratic rule of law, where an official of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, or this inspector, can order operational and cognitive activities no matter who? It doesn't matter if they're ordinary citizens, officials, officers of the ministry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We propose an amendment that narrows down this catalogue. Please accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u594	Thank you. I understand that was part of the question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 161 votes against - 260. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the inserted article. 11j paragraph. 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 5th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 159 votes against - 260. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th minority proposal to the added article. 11j paragraph. 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 1. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to this provision, the inspector of internal surveillance will be entitled to direct commissioning of activities, including operational and exploratory activities, to the Chief of the Office of the Interior of the Police, the Border Guard without informing the business superiors of these units of this order. I understand that Minister Błaszczak has looked at the Attorney General, who can interfere with all cases at every level at the prosecutor's office, and wants to match the Minister, the Attorney General. But that means that you're actually introducing not only uncertainty, but also a mess in the operation of these units. Do you really think this is the solution that will contribute to the better functioning of the police and border guards? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u596	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 161 votes against - 253. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 13th amendment to the inserted article. 11j paragraph. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 158 against - 257. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the inserted article. 11j paragraph. The applicant shall propose to delete point 7 and 10. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 181 voted against - 234, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the inserted article. 11j propose to delete paragraph. 6. Amendment 18 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 6th minority proposal and the amendments from the 19th to the 21st. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 15 and 18 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 186 against - 227. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 16th amendment to the article. 11and the applicants propose to give... Is that a "I" or a "I"? [[- No, no, no, no, ……]] Wait a minute. We need to check this out. [[But what's the matter, you don't know the letters?]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry.]] Excuse me, I repeat. In the 16th amendment to the article. 11l applicants propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u597	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Article states that the activities listed in Article are to be carried out. 1 should be performed in a way... Unfortunately, the record is that they allow personal property to be violated. We're against it. And I don't know why, and that's a question for the Minister, it makes it possible to violate personal property in the activities that will be carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's the rule at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u598	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 184 against 229. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 11l applicants propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 185 against - 231. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 11n applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As long as the courts of law and justice are not so fully taken over, you are afraid of the supervision of the court, hence the provision that allows you to act without supervision of the court for up to 5 days. In this amendment, we suggest that the possibility for officers to act without judicial review is limited to two days. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u600	I thank the Member for this information. [[Lying, not information.]] Although, let me remind you, this is a block. Asking questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 162 against 250. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th minority proposal to the following article. 11r. 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 1. The question is raised by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The catalogue of direct coercion measures proposed by the government is too broad. Why the possibility of using materials and explosives to blow doors or other obstacles, why the possibility of using business cars, Minister, to battering other road users, do you know how this might end or hand and leg handcuffs? I don't think that's the point, Mr. Minister, to arrest a flash in the glare. After all, the 50-person formation should be served by professionals from other services, not equipped with all possible attributes and permissions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u602	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 161 votes against - 251, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 20th amendment to the article. 11In the applicant, they propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. 180 voted against - 223, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 11x applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Questions are asked by Members. Member Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u603	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I see that Minister Błaszczak and Minister Zieliński are suflung the President. Mr President, I would advise you to set up an internal surveillance office in PiS, because I believe you have not seen this project, and this is absolutely crucial in terms of the functioning of the services. It's a switch. services for political services in the hands of one minister. A very serious breach in the democratic system of the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen! The audit, as regards the records and powers of the Minister and his new special service, is very illusory. We propose that data, these very modest data on the number of surveillance cases, be transmitted - in addition to the district court - also to the Sejm Committee on Special Services. There is also room for analysis of this type of information. I would ask you to support this request, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it is a proposal that is in our common, parliamentarians - as well as such control - interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u604	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The law we are discussing is indeed a law that gives great powers to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, but, of course, let's face it, this external control over the Police must be because the internal control that we have come to in recent years has shown that it does not work. On the other hand, it is important how we can control the ministry in the actions it is taking. This amendment really costs very little for you, and yet it would allow the Sejm to have an insight into it. I do not know why you are afraid that the Commission for Special Services may also have an insight into how these control activities are carried out. I have raised some doubts about some people from the Parliamentary Speaker, that they do not inspire our trust in the Ministry, so we would really like to get at least enough that this audit will be carried out by the Special Services Commission. I ask you, however, to bend over and accept this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u606	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 190 votes against - 219, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 3 amending act containing amendments to the Act on employees of public authorities. This application is accompanied by applications from 8 to 11, 13, 15 to 19, 21 to 27, 29 to 38, 40 to 44, 50 and 52 to 61. We will vote on them together. The question is raised by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u607	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! As you can see, this is a very comprehensive proposal, whose task is to maintain the principle of hierarchicality and not to use the so-called. Bypasses, i.e. bypassing the competence with the exception of the commandants of the individual services. The organisational structure cannot be broken down by separating the internal affairs units from the Police and Border Guard and assigning these competences to the Minister. This will have an impact on the weakening of the activities of these services and the risk of political action. I am able to imagine that telephone dispositions from Warsaw will be issued to individual commands without the knowledge and acceptance of these commandants. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u608	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the minority proposals mentioned earlier by me would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 162 voted against - 251, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Minority requests from 8 to 24 were submitted to Article. 4 draft amending act containing amendments to the Police Act. In the 12th minority proposal to the added article. 6i (3) applicants propose to add a new wording to point 3. a and delete point (a). b. This proposal is accompanied by minority proposals 28th, 45th and 49th. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the minority proposals just mentioned by me, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 153 voted against - 249, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. 4 The amending act proposes to delete the amendments from 10 to 12. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 181 voted against 225, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 20th minority proposal to Article. 4 The amending act of the applicant proposes to delete amendment 24. This proposal is accompanied by minority proposals 39, 47 and 51. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the minority proposals 20, 39, 47 and 51 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 179 votes against - 234. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Minority requests from the 44th to the 48th were submitted to Article. 7 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the State Fire Service. In the 46th minority application, the applicant proposes to delete amendment 5. He's connected to the 48th motion. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 46th and 48th will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 251. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 62nd minority application, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 44 amending law containing a transitional provision. The question is raised by Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u609	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! This is a very important novelization provision, but I have a question for Minister Błaszczak: Is this the way to restore democracy in Poland, as is happening at the moment under the seat of the State Forests, where the Polish Police put 22 people in bitches - attention - on the charge of violation of the home mire? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[They only threw in a 300-kilogram barrel of concrete.]] That's what your policy looks like. You can't stand anybody who has any opinions other than you. You're gonna pass a bill that's designed to keep people under surveillance. You also accuse an old man who fires a fire on the stairs on the street, accused of an illegal demonstration, environmentalists are accused of violating - attention - the home myr of the state institution. [[They're not environmentalists.]] Mr Błaszczak has become a symbol of this approach to citizens. And you punks talk about democracy, about the island of freedom? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We watch this island every day.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u610	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u611	This bill is good for basketball. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u612	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 62nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 162 votes against - 252. The Sejm's motion is denied. Members came forward before the vote on the draft law as a whole. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It's funny that Minister Błaszczak spoke here about the end of post-communism. Well, that's Minister Błaszczak's bill. He acknowledges exactly the effect that General Kiszczak had on uniformed services. [[Like Kiszak.]] This bill will take us back to the time of the Polish People's Republic, [[Applause]] the difference is that today the technical possibilities for obtaining information, processing sensitive information about citizens and their media use are far greater than they were in the 1980s. Prime Minister! [[The Prime Minister can't do anything.]] This law was already very radical at the government stage and introduced very profound changes, but at the commission stage it was further tightened. Minister Błaszczak's capabilities have been further enhanced by this law. For 30 years, no one has had such an impact on the work of uniformed services or on the possibilities of manual control of this work, which was granted by Minister Błaszczak. Prime Minister! Why do you allow Minister Błaszczak to build himself a PiS [[♪ The bell ♪]] Superresort? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u614	Thank you. I would like to draw Mr Nitras' attention not to shout. [[Where do you hear...]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u615	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You could say it happened. You fried another surveillance bill. You've fried a surveillance bill far worse than the ones you've been pushing through Parliament so far. These previous laws concerned only services, while this law allows an official of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration to commission operational activities. What's that? That's wiretapping. That's surveillance. The ministry official will be able to do it, he's got five days without the court's permission. In which country We're alive? Prime Minister, is it a democratic state in which an official can order this kind of action against citizens? [[Applause]] Is this democracy? This isn't a democracy. [[Ask the president. Ask the president.]] Ministers will be able to get acquainted with all [[♪ The bell ♪]] materials from surgical and diagnostic activities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a surveillance bill times four. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u616	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Budek! You really mustn't have any shame before the next 11th of November, before the next Independence Day, before the next Independence March, [[Applause]] during which marches you sent the servants, sent police officers to burn booths, [[Applause]] To break up patriotic demonstrations so they can keep an eye on thousands of people... [[Bravo!]] [[What are you talking about?]] ...to stop these people, to treat them rudely, brutally... [[You don't know what you're saying.]] You guys were just stopping. When it comes to patriotic manifestations, you've been doing it for years. You really don't have to be ashamed, you don't have to have elementary decency to go out and criticize the detention of some pseudoecologists. [[Applause]] [[And that's the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u618	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1984 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. There were 243 votes against - 165 and five abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on certain powers of servants of the office serving the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and officials and servants of the offices supervised by that Minister and certain other laws. [[Applause]] [[Where's the vote?]] Minister Jarosław Zieliński wanted to speak. Yeah, now. [[A voice from the hall: But reflexes, but reflexes, Minister, just like at work.]] Deputy Minister of Interior and Administration Jarosław Zieliński. [[In what mode?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal didn't notice - I raised my hand that I wanted to speak before voting on the entire bill. [[Voice from the hall: But the vote is over.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Listen to me for a second. All these questions, all the doubts you have raised, have been answered several times during the various legislative stages in the Sejm, in committees. You guys keep saying the same thing. [[On the streets...]] Before I say a few other words, I would like to point out that Kiszczak, mentioned here as a live one, was not raised in democratic elections. I don't think anyone's gonna say he was elected democratically. [[That's the only difference.]] He had powerful power. He had no sejm control, no media control, no review of the prosecution and the courts, so don't mention this example. [[You don't have...]] [[Who's the Seym Controller? Kaczynski?]] On the other hand, this law actually introduces an epochal change. It will finally allow a democratic minister to... [[The commune's coming back.]] ...who is responsible for the functioning of the services and is accountable for this, had a real instrument of supervision over them. You're dreaming of a situation like this so far. [[Voice from the hall: Will you apologize for Wrocław?]] You dream of lack of supervision so that you can do all kinds of scams within the area that is being created. Last time you all saw, all of Poland saw... [[Wroclaw!]] Why all the excitement? Listen to me for a second. [[From Mr. Stachowiak's death, explain yourself.]] You're not gonna scare me anyway. All of Poland saw what control over the operation of the police was. The policewoman testified about Amber Gold. Did you see what it looked like? Is that what you want? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Is that still what you want? You're saying the politician will have an insight into the operating materials. Excuse me, this politician, the Home Minister, is responsible for the operation of the services, for the oversight of the services... [[Yes, sir.]] [[Yes, sir. Bravo!]] ...not only over the commandants, but also over the entire formations. For this he is accounted for, for this he will also be accounted for in the next election the entire political camp he represents. Come on. Politics and policemen. You had a cop. [[It's like the PRL.]] He was former Chief of Police Marek Działoszyński, who then ran for the Sejm from the list, not from kindergarten, but from the PSL party list, and before that he was head of the BSW, the Internal Affairs Office. Can I remind you of that? Have you forgotten? [[So what?]] Now the politician is bothering you. That is democracy, that is the responsibility. Last chord. Another chief of the other service, Mr. Janicki, who you've promoted to general for Smolensk... [[Yeah, that's right.]] ...for not fulfilling his duties for compromising his service... [[Bravo, Jarek!]] ... You promoted him instead of throwing him out of office - now he's a civil platform activist. [[Liar!]] Congratulations, this is a disgrace to him and yours. There's an era coming to an end. This bill ends an era. [[When are you gonna give up the confetti on the Sejm?]] There's gonna be surveillance. There'll be proper surveillance. There's gonna be a responsibility that we still have... [[Confetti will be there.]] ...and as far as you're concerned, these areas and niches will end where everything is free. There will be an end to the period when there was no supervision of these activities and it could be used for various purposes. [[Get off that podium, stop it.]] And in your day, these tools were used. That's not gonna happen. We'll oversee it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] That's not enough, you want to be able to control those proceedings that concern police officers themselves or other servants, and the services, I remind you, have this tool, and it's secret that these instruments can be applied to citizens. It is a very sensitive sphere. It is precisely in the interests of civil rights that this must be well supervised and this instrument will serve this purpose. That's what this tool is for. [[Come down. That's enough.]] Your time, your era, the '90s, the remnants of the Polish People's Republic and communism, along with the adoption of this law, ends in this sphere. And there will finally be order. [[Applause]] [[There's a new era coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u620	We return to the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the excise duty law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. The question is raised by Jarosław Sachajko, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that smoking ordinary cigarettes, e-cigarettes or these pseudo-innovative cigarettes is harmful. But that's not what this bill is about. I will not advertise to foreign corporations, but I will tell you to Members that these pseudo-innovative products - they are similarly named in this bill - are produced by three foreign corporations. Liquids for e-cigarettes, which I think all of you have seen, are produced by dozens of Polish companies. What's in the bill? Minister for some reason - I don't know what the consideration is - prefers these innovative foreign products. What does that motivate? He says these foreign products are more expensive, that the devices themselves are more expensive. And why are they more expensive? Because these companies have patented the mechanisms and they want horrendous sums for these devices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Liquids are produced by Polish entrepreneurs. Why didn't the minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u622	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u623	...prefers foreign corporations and robs Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u624	Thank you, sir. We also thank the Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print no. 1963 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 234, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus sent it to the Committee on Public Finance. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the State Protection Service. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee for consideration. Here are the questions. The question is raised by Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u625	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is another law that represents a great step towards creating a police state. This is another law that brings us closer to the Polish People's Republic again. It contains many harmful and bad solutions, but really scandalous are those described in the mouth. Article 2 66, since this provision provides for the possibility to cooperate with journalists, with radio and television publishers. And this is a scandal because it restores the PRL in its pure form. Question to the Prime Minister: Do you know that in art. 14 Constitutions are guaranteed freedom of the press and other social media? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you going to make these laws disappear from this bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u626	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u627	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr Grabarczyk was just polite to mention one of the important points. This record is really, really unfortunate, to put it mildly. I wanted to ask you three questions like that. Minister! In 2015, you carried out an audit at the BOR. This audit showed that the BOR was in a terrible situation. I wanted to ask: Why haven't you caused significant funding to the Government Protection Office since 2016, so that this service can act at the level that is needed to guarantee the safety of the most important people in the country? You waited, you waited for it to fall apart, you fired the key officers, and now you put the bill on the table, saying there's nothing you can do about it. I also wanted to ask why this new service, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another special op, she's gonna have access to surveillance. Does that mean that the services under your supervision...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u628	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u629	Can't they work together? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u630	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed to the vote... Minister Jarosław Zieliński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u631	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! I already told you this morning here, from this speaker, that the Civic Platform, almost all opposition, and in some moments the entire opposition, sees the special forces everywhere. [[Why don't you tell me about the bill?]] He's so obsessed. The Office of Government Protection, the future State Protection Service, is not and will not be a special service. The Bureau of Internal Affairs, just voted out, isn't gonna be special duty, so don't be really afraid of it. What are you afraid of? Anything on your conscience? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: A lot!]] [[That's what Lenin said. Lenin rule.]] As far as the State Protection Service is concerned, it is in fact intended to respond to all these pathologies, to all the growing problems and difficulties that have hindered the operation of the Government Protection Office and have increased over the years. The government security office's underfunded is your fault for years. [[You're breaking too many beems.]] During the two years of our government, I remind you, we have established a programme of modernization of uniformed services, and it has also taken over the Office for Government Protection. There have been salary increases since January 1st this year in all departments... [[And new cars.]] ...there were purchases of equipment, equipment of course. [[You guys are breaking up a lot.]] These purchases are still being made because the programme has only just started, it lasts for the first year, and it is a 4-year programme. There will be further increases from 2019. We're making the necessary purchases, and I want to do it again, just as part of this program. [[How many chiefs of staff?]] There's more money for this formation because it's been underinvested for years. In fact, in the years of your reign you did not recruit for this service, every year there was more leave from the Government Security Office than admissions to it. This was the first time that this situation changed in 2016. [[What are you so afraid of?]] ...when we were already in charge of the government security office. The call was bigger, leaving was less. There's one more thing. Please, really, because the discussion... You guys shouldn't be discussing this. For years, even commitments to officers have been growing. This famous unpaid equivalent - now we have about 1,600 officers on the list, to whom you are behind. We pay off this backlog, we make up for these years of your incompetent governments. Now that's what's happening. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Well, it's happening.]] We're just getting this service straightened out. We'll give her new powers, new powers... [[And confetti.]] ...we will increase its potential, also its number, as well as its scope of tasks and competences, and it will finally carry out its duties to an extremely important extent, i.e. as regards the protection of the most important people in the country, as regards the protection of foreign delegations, facilities for government administrations and for security activities abroad. You should remain silent on this subject, especially since this service, although formally established in 2001, dates back to the Polish People's Republic. [[Applause]] [[Don't wave a finger, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u632	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 1916 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. 151 voted against - 249, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law on the Marshal's Guard. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Questions are raised by Members. Member Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u633	Just a quick question. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! PiS is militarizing the Marshal's Guard. I wanted to ask why the Marshal's Guard should have the authority to operate outside the Sejm. Let me remind you that this is going to be a very serious mandate. Is it that the police aren't doing well outside the Sejm? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u634	Thank you. Member Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u635	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! How can this committee project be called, since on 17 October we learned that at the committee meeting we would discuss the proposal for a resolution initiative, while on 25 October we took a committee resolution initiative? The opposition had no opportunity to place even a punctuation mark in this extensive material. Dear Prime Minister, I do not know if you know that this law de facto creates another specialty, and it is not a word for growth, because a number of powers that the Marshals' Guard will gain this time are really competences reserved for qualified agents of individual services. I will not even mention the possibility of obtaining secret co-workers, so-called. pointers that can simply be paid directly for the provision of information. [[Among the maid's.]] I will no longer talk about the possibility of using tonf sticks or means of direct coercion. Dear Prime Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It costs 20 million PLN. Really, this money can be used in a different way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u636	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Go to PiS, everyone from Kukiza, why are you going through it one at a time?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u637	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. We are talking about the Marshal's Guard, an institution that is designed to influence security. All of us, all of us here in the Seym - in the Seym, which is more and more like a besieged fortress. Marshal, the question to you is, when will the fences that are before the Sejm finally disappear and keep us away from the citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u638	This is not an easy or simple question, Mr President. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It's best to say that the net will disappear when we have a 100-percent sense of security. [[Touchdown, applause]] At the moment, a representative of the applicants, Mr Czartoryski, asks for the floor. There you go. [[He's gonna be in front of the verification committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u639	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Today, I thank you for those voices that were voiced during the debate, saying that we finally have a bill, which is a modern project that responds to the threats that arise in Europe, also threats that concern public buildings, but also parliaments in Europe. I am surprised that you do not see that we must respond actively to this type of threat before it becomes a damage. Mr Suchoń asks here, once again, about this record that the Marshal's Guard will be able to operate outside the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that each of us remembers the extremely shameful events that took place under our parliament when a single MEP leaving Parliament at night on the street. The villagers were attacked by pack of thugs. You can't call it anything else. [[Applause]] [[Where was the police?]] Even when it comes to the situation where a single Member leaving the Sejm on the street. The village was vulgarly and brutally attacked. Why it would not be possible to create such rules that the Marshal's Guard can take a few steps and protect the Member on the street. Rural? [[With the swords.]] This was also the case with Mr Jakubiak, for Mr Janik, who was pressed against the wall by the hooligans, because that is what it should be called. Ladies and gentlemen, these will be emergency situations, they will be emergency situations. Mr Szymański from the Civic Platform, asking a question, shows a huge misunderstanding for the necessity of passing the Marshal's Guard Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what Minister Jarosław Zieliński said today. You're obsessed with two words: special forces. [[I think your group is obsessed with this.]] The Marshal's Guard in the form proposed in the project, ladies and gentlemen, will have powers very similar to the overwhelming majority of parliamentary guards throughout Europe, especially in Western Europe, but also in Central Europe. It is nothing unusual, ladies and gentlemen, that in order to effectively protect Parliament, the Marshal's Guard must have appropriate instruments for this. But, attention, for these powers is also the great responsibility of the Marshal's Guard. I think that you should be pleased that it was at this time that we, during this term of office of the Sejm, took part in the work on a document which, after all, will serve all parliamentary terms, the honourable Member, the next marshals, the next Members, in order to ensure the security of Parliament. I think we all agree that the proverb of a wise Pole after harm should no longer function. [[Voice from the hall: But we are not afraid of the sovereign.]] We should create a professional service that has the authority to protect Parliament. Our parliament is not surrounded by high fences, as it is often in Western Europe. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[But it will be.]] We are an open parliament... [[But it's locked.]] [[Open parliament behind the wall.]] ...but we must have a modern service, a parliament guard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u640	Please. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode. I've been replaced.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Voices from the hall: Right?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1971 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. 135 votes against 259 and 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law Rules introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent this proposal to the administration committee. The question is asked by Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u641	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This bill has been expected by the Marshal's Guard for many, many years. I have a question for Members who have requested that this bill be rejected at first reading. How dare you look these people in the eye, those people who protect you, who work here, who guard your security, those who spent Christmas here while you were doing the theater on this speaker? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] You are now denying them the right to become a normal service, just as it is in Western Europe. I'm really asking you to come to my senses, to withdraw from this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u642	Thank you. Member Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[On your knees, apologize to the Marshal's Watch.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u643	In front of the Member on her knees? Many in Poland dream of it, but it's not this church, not me. [[Apologize!]] Mr. Marshal! The matter is serious and unnecessary. None of us are against the Marshal's Guard. These rules that help improve their status do not disturb us in any way. But it's something else. I would have listened to all these beautiful words and I would have agreed with everything, but there is such a Suski, but not this Suski Member, Paweł Suski. I have a film in front of me, like Mr. Ziobro, today's Attorney General, talks to Mr. Kurski and encourages unionists, so-called. The union's gonna put a stick in Suski's head. With a stick! [[Applause]] Are you saying today that you will protect us? Defend us, God, from your protection. Second thing. Do you know what the Marshal's Watch doesn't want? To protect us from Poles. I've been an MP longer than you. I remember people walking around here, walking around, doing nothing wrong. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Marshal's Guard doesn't want to take out Poles, doesn't want to beat Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u644	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u645	...wants to be able to function normally. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u646	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u647	Thank you very much. [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal, Marshal Terlecki has spoken to me at the moment. This is the Marshal of the Seym?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But he told the truth.]] [[Have you seen what you look like? I demand punishment. What the hell is that?]] I have to say... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Provocator! Provocator! Provocator!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u648	Quiet, please. Mr Mirosław Suchoń has the floor... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Don't be a jerk! Don't be silly! Don't be silly!]] Quiet, please. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor. Quiet, please. [[Voice from the courtroom: Are you going to react, Marshal, or not?]] Proceed. [[Voice from the courtroom: The Lord will resign!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u649	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have to say, those words weren't very cultural. Probably have to do something about it. I wanted to address the question to Mr Czartoryski, President, rapporteur. Mr President, speaking of these bandits, of these bandits, did you mean the situation when Mr Suski was trying to leave Parliament? I quote: Participants of the blockade organized by the NSZZ So they were just using violence against the Member. Let me remind you that the D.A.'s office has initiated proceedings in this case. The current Minister of Justice encouraged the unionists to be more aggressive when sitting or camping under the Seym. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When you were talking about bandits, did you mean... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u650	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u651	...Reporter, about this case? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Don't talk, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u652	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u653	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I must remind you again, this time not the march of independence, and the manifestation at the Sejm in 2014 when the tape scandal broke out. We came in here to protest the scams, against your politics, which was just presented in the band event. And what happened then? And that's when you sent the police, the Marshal's Guard - for a peaceful manifestation - for sticking, for gassing. That's when you used them politically. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Today, your tuning into the feathers of the defenders of order, order is such a galloping hypocrisy that you're just ridiculing yourselves. Don't do this because it's really funny. They have in mind what was happening with the help of the services, including unfortunately with the help of the Marshal's Guard, in the years 2007 to 2015. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u654	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1972 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 392 Members voted. 133 voted against - 258, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on the social security system and some other laws. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. I will put this motion to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Members ask questions. Member Paweł Grabowski, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u655	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A short question for the applicants. This law extends from 2 to 3 years so-called. Little ZUS. Why do those who apply to reject this bill want to refuse young Polish entrepreneurs this longer start-up period, to extend it from 2 to 3 years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u656	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Time's up, come back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u657	Luckily, it's not up to you to decide. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law extends the period of small ZUS for new small entrepreneurs, but drains on 5.5 billion PLN of pockets of Poles. This law is the best proof that the PiS has reduced the retirement age without securing any source of funding. Today you want to draw PLN 5.5 billion out of the pocket of some Poles, making them pay higher pension contributions than more. They will already pay 52% of their salary for taxes and contributions to the State, i.e. they will pay more to support, among others. State administration and various services, and less will be left in their pockets. Unacceptable. In a moment you will do the same with contributions that go to OFE today - 3 billion PLN. You're just waiting for you to liquidate the OFE and throw yourself in for more money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] citizens. A total of 8.5 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u658	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u659	And that's not gonna happen to us. And as for the little ZUS, we're gonna file a separate bill on this case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u660	Mr Antoni Duda, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor. [[Hurry up, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u661	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The question is addressed to the Minister, or actually to all of us. What kind of situation can we consider normal... [[As long as you guys are in charge, it's crazy.]] ...if we all pay social security contributions on the total salary, or if the low, medium and good earners pay contributions on the whole, and the very well-earned, above 2.5 times the national average, only pay them on part of their earnings? [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u662	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 1974 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 386 Members voted. 126 voted against 256 and 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal, so he sent the proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 1992). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would anyone like to take the floor on this? I can't see, I can't hear. [[Voices from the room: No.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1992 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 375 Members voted. The vote was 355, against - 13, 7 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 33 hours 20 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Ms Beata Mazurek and Ms Urszula Ruseck, the Law and Justice Club, on the employment and current situation of women in the labour market - to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm so sorry. I ask the honourable Member who is talking in the Chamber for peace, because it is bothering everyone else. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Please, first question, Mrs. Beata Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u663	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The labour market situation in Poland is changing positively: social activity and employment are increasing and unemployment is falling rapidly. This makes Poland look better and better on the international stage. The level of recorded unemployment is record low. Data published by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy show that at the end of September this year. the number of unemployed registered at the labour offices was similar to that recorded at the end of 1990 when unemployment occurred with the economic transformation. The unemployment rate recorded at the end of September was 6,8% and was the lowest of over a quarter of a century, at the same level as at the end of February 1991. In addition, employers are increasingly signaling staff shortages. This means that the situation on the labour market in Poland is even excellent today. Unfortunately, however, it still seems that the situation of women remains more difficult than that of men. This is probably due to the traditional division of roles and the need to reconcile work and family life, but maybe also to the stereotypical thinking of some employers who are still reluctant to employ women because they have or have the possibility of having young children and the associated potential use of sick leave. Therefore, I would like to ask you to provide reliable data on whether the positive changes in the labour market relate equally to women and men and how we look on this issue against the background of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u664	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u665	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! High Izbo! In fact, if we are talking about the situation on the labour market in Poland, today it is very good. Yesterday's data on the labour market: 6.6% - unemployment rate, voivodship with the lowest unemployment rate, voivodship wielkopolskie - 3.8% , Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship - 11.6%. It's the only voivodship where the unemployment rate is still two figures. Other voivodships - single-digit unemployment rate, the lowest unemployment rate for 26 years. Even if we compared this in the Eurostat category, at European Union level: unemployment at 4,7%, 4,6% , in our country, in the European Union average - 7.6% , in countries where the euro is - 9.1% , it is clear that the situation is also very good against the background of European countries, we are in the top countries with the lowest unemployment rate. It is also the case that Poland has significantly improved the unemployment gap, as well as in terms of labour participation rates and employment rates. But that applies to the entire population. The question about the situation of women is very important, insofar as this situation has not changed for many years, although we have recently seen clearly that this distance, as far as activity is concerned, is... Women's situation is improving. Several such data regarding the professional activity of women in Poland. She's smaller than men. What needs to be stressed here is that this situation has continued, it has been at a similar level for many years, but the last period is definitely better. Clearly, there is greater activity among women. There is a similar trend throughout the European Union as regards women's professional activity at the moment. This percentage of activity in Poland is one of the highest in EU countries. It is also worth noting that, due to the increase in the number of workers - the unemployment rate is lower, the number of workers is increasing - the employment rate is improving. In the second quarter of this year the employment rate of women of working age in Poland was over 60%. In the European Union it was slightly higher, but this gap, which is 2% , is clearly lower than it was in previous years, i.e. we are making up for this distance from the other European countries that exist in this area. If we talk about absolute numbers, we can see that according to statistics at the end of September there were more than 626 thousand registered in the employment offices. Women and nearly 500,000. Men, which means that women are over 56% unemployed, which means there are more people among women who are unemployed. What measures have we taken and taken to help women activating? Of course, these are the actions that we form within the labour offices. I can give you this data here: last year we activated over 274 thousand. unemployed women, representing more than 53% more than 203 000 have been activated in various forms of active forms of support on the labour market during the 9-month period. unemployed women, which accounted for almost 54% the total number of unemployed who have benefited from various forms of aid. What forms of assistance did women most often benefit from from the labour offices? They were internships - almost 100,000. persons - intervention work, public works. In conclusion, it should be stressed that the situation of women in the labour market is gradually improving. This also involves changes in the labour market. The attitude of women to take up employment is also changing. In many cases, there is a situation that this passiveness, which occurs among women, is decreasing. However, some women choose to take care of their children while staying at home, benefit from the 500+ family program, choose a form that is also worth highlighting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u666	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Ursula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u667	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As you have rightly pointed out, the situation of women in the labour market in Poland is improving. She is closely linked to the country's socio-economic situation. We have a record-breaking low unemployment, and it seems that for the first time in history, unemployment among women is lower than that of men. I therefore have a question: How did the introduction of the benefit of 500+ affect the situation of women in the labour market? Many have been said that parenting can lead to the deactivation of a large group of mothers. Is this the case, and have these black scenarios come true? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u668	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Minister to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u669	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! With regard to the charge, which was often raised in the introduction of the 500+ family programme, the professional deactivation of women, it does not confirm itself. These data we have, the hard data on which we rely, show that the number of active women is increasing. I can give you the data: 60,000. compared to last year, to the period of the second quarter under examination, at the age of 15 years and over, by 104 thousand. fell e.g. the number of inactive women. The employment rate increased - by 158 thousand. the number of working women has increased, etc. You can call this data here. They show one trend: the number of working women is increasing, the employment rate is rising and the number of unemployed is falling. It translates into the fact that women's situation is better. There is no confirmation that people who benefit from the 500+ family scheme are leaving the labour market, so to speak. We seem to be able to quietly carry out the 500+ programme to ensure that women's activity is increased. These programmes, which are addressed to the unemployed in the framework of employment offices, serve this purpose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u670	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska and Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform, on the consequences that will be drawn to the Head of the Military Counterintelligence Service in relation to the lie he committed in 2016 in a statement on the person to whom the then Head of the SKW granted access to the state secret. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, the first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u671	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed directly to the Prime Minister. I see here Minister Bartosz Kownacki, whom, I understand, Minister Macierewicz always sends where he cannot cope, in the hope that the Minister will do better. So that I would ask the Minister to pass on this question to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Well, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, we showed a lie to the Military Counterintelligence Service. The Military Counterintelligence Service under the direct authority of Minister Antoni Macierewicz on 25 November 2016 lied, stating that Jacek Kotas, according to documents from the tax authorities' office, the protection of public policy and his personal statement, was not employed, was neither the president nor the shareholder of any economic entity, including Radius. This is an obvious lie, just a few minutes to search the Internet to find out that Jacek Kotas was president of Era 200, a company that later became such a mother company for the entire group of Radius. In this connection we ask: What is Prime Minister Szydło going to draw consequences for the head of the SKW of Mr Piotr Bączek, because the lie is evident? We have seen such inept attempts to explain the situation. Of course, they did not refer directly to the lie. Radosław Sikorski, then Minister of National Defence, was tried to shed his responsibility. I just want to say that the head of the Military Counterintelligence Service was Antoni Macierewicz, and it was the services of Antoni Macierewicz that investigated Mr Jack Kotas. We'd like to know what it really looked like to be allowed to keep secrets. The lie is obvious, so I have a question: [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you going to do with the head of the SKW? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u672	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Minister Bartosz Kownacki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u673	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Perhaps in the first place: attacking someone like whom, but Mr.Piotr Bączek, the current Head of the Military Counterintelligence Service, through the Civic Platform, is the greatest of wickedness, dishonesty, indecency. It's for Mr. Piotr Bączka in your day at an hour. The Homeland Security Agency came in this morning. Without any basis, without any reason, his apartment was searched, that's what his underage children, a few years old, three or four years old children were looking at. Today you are trying to accuse this person of saying it's not true for your political purposes. Remember who you entered at hours. 6 a.m., sir. That's the first line. And the second point - I ask for the first slide - you are trying to assign to Minister Macierewicz things that do not exist, and it is a pity that you do not want to see it yourself. First of all, permission for temporary access to classified information was granted to Mr. Kotas by someone else, only Radosław Sikorski, then Minister of National Defence, later... [[At Macierewicz's request.]] Wait a minute, sir, I'll answer you in a minute. ...marshal of the Civic Platform Sejm, Minister of Foreign Affairs and apparently still an active member of the Civic Platform, unless he felt that the fate of the Civic Platform had already ended... [[At Macierewicz's request.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt.]] And he's not a member of the Platform. I'm not getting into that. And now, Mr Nitras, although you have not asked a question, I would be happy to answer - I ask for a second slide. Well, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, then head of the Military Counterintelligence Service, clearly - you can look at this document - said that it is not possible to grant temporary consent because no documents on such proceedings have been received in the Military Counterintelligence Service. So please do not press charges against people who had nothing to do with this case, do not accuse Minister Macierewicz, in a situation where Minister Sikorski gave the consent. And don't make a storm in a glass of water... [[He's just a crook.]] ...when there's no water in that glass. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: What about February 7th?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u674	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Mr Cezary Tomczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u675	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I feel sorry for you because you're a judge of your own. It is the Military Counterintelligence Service that falls under Minister Macierevich, and you are under him. That's the first problem. Secondly, we have a statement by Mr. Piotr Bączek, which reads: It was at the request of Mr. Zająkaly that Mr. Jack Kotas was examined when he became Undersecretary of State or Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence. We also read in it - and here is the obvious lie - that Jacek Kotas was neither the president nor the shareholder of any economic entity in 2001 and 2007. This was signed by Mr. Piotr Bączek, not by anyone else. If you like slides, I'll show you one. This is the introduction to the 2002 accounts. - that is, it was a period which Mr. Piotr Bączek describes - which indicates that Mr. Jacek Kotas was no less, no more, only the CEO of Era 200, which later became a part of Radius, who [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the right-wing media was referred to as the Russian liaison. So you slipped over the subject, and I'm asking you to relate to that particular detail. In 2016...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u676	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u677	Your Marshal, if I may, two sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u678	Very quickly, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u679	I'm asking you, sir, to address this particular case. Piotr Bączek lied in 2016 in a statement, the consequences should be raised against him. It didn't happen, even though he lied, even though you're trying to talk about Radosław Sikorski today, even though it's not the document, even though the certification...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u680	Unfortunately, sir, I must ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u681	...and access to top secret information concerns the time when Mr. Jacek Kotas was Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, he was Deputy Minister of Defense in the Government...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u682	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u683	... Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u684	Thank you very much. I would very much ask everyone to observe the time limit. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u685	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The link between the Civic Platform and Mr Putin is someone else. [[Who?]] He's known as the Civic Platform politician. I'm sure you know his name. [[No, we don't.]] And if you don't, you're gonna have to look at it a little bit. [[That's not what we asked.]] But this is a completely different matter, sir. I'm gonna ask for another slide. It says there at the very beginning, and this is signed by Minister Macierewicz: Request for... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: There is Jan Kotas.]] ...enhanced investigation of Mr. Jack... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Jana. Jan Kotas.]] ... The cat didn't come in. We're talking about a letter dated December 4th. And now... Mr President, I have no doubt that you are a very intelligent man. There's a saying: smart head... [[I'm sorry, there's no such thing as this, but I'm asking you to give me your name in what you read.]] That's two words. [[But please tell me what name you read there.]] Mr President, if you'll allow me... I don't know... Is this some form, your marshal, dialogue? 'Cause it's kind of weird that your marshal's approach is here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u686	Please allow the Minister to answer. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: We can have a discussion here, and I can even invite you for coffee. There's water, there's no coffee, but... But, Minister, please answer the questions. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: I would ask you very much to let me do my duty. [[A voice from the room: You were called a swindler.]] Well, Minister Piotr Bączek said clearly: According to documents from tax offices and tax authorities. We are talking about the state of knowledge of the Military Counterintelligence Service in autumn 2016. Since the request has not really been received at this time, it is difficult to say any knowledge in this regard. That's all, sir. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Can I make a correction?]] But you weren't, Mr... I can't. [[I was mentioned by name. The Minister spoke to me.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: I did not give names.]] No, sir, I would really love to, and all my sympathy... [[It's a big deal...]] I know, but you haven't been replaced. [[I've been replaced. After all, the Minister was referring to my statement.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: But if you want coffee, maybe later.]] Gentlemen, really, maybe you do... No, no. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u687	Minister, on this slide you presented, yes there is a Kotas, but Jan Kotas. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But Jan.]] So I'm asking you what you showed us here today. I don't think Jan Kotas is Jacek Kotas unless we have a problem here about understanding names. I don't know what you're showing us, I know what was in Mr. Piotr Bączek's 2016 statement. And I read: Jacek Kotas in 2001-2007 according to documents from tax offices and tax authorities, but also the protection of public policy - i.e. the services that were subject to Antoni Macierewicz - and also his personal statement was not employed, was not president or shareholder of any economic entity, including Radius. Well, first of all, you're showing us some document that seems to be referring to someone else, and second of all, we have an obvious lie in Mr. Piotr Bączka's statement. And I ask you to take this into account because you haven't even referred to it in one sentence, although you're here because we're doing the Sejm's control function. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the government, and you're from the government right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u688	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Mr. Minister, and I will close this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u689	Your Marshal, with all due respect, this is your party colleague, you have introduced a new mode of discussion within this point... [[Voices from the hall: Exactly.]] ...the mode of conversation by a glass of water. Therefore, Your Marshal, I invite the Marshal... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u690	I'm asking you to calm down. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: ...and the Member for a glass of water, we can discuss this further. I am ready, and the Member knows that we always welcome you sincerely. [[Answer me.]] But this kind of procedure, your marshal, irregular... [[Now you're being instructed by the Marshal, the Minister.]] ...and you're responsible for following the rules of procedure, you're an unreliable... Minister... State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: ...unserious handling of the case. Come on in for a glass of water. ...you didn't have to answer that question. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: We can announce a break and continue to discuss there in the back. [[Applause]] [[Answer me.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing that question. Let's move on to question three. The question is asked by Radosław Lubczyk, Marek Ruciński, Marek Sowa and Mirosław Suchoń, the club Modernzna, on planned measures to secure the functioning of the Polish health care system in case of a medical protest after 1 January 2018. The question is Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u691	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't see Minister Radziwill. I do not know if the Minister is interested in what will happen to the Poles and what will happen to health care after 1 January 2018. Minister, doctors residents have completed their hunger protest, but their struggle for value, for ideas, for repair of health care continues. In recent days, the media have focused their attention on the reconstruction of the government. Maybe it's a special game. However, under this cover, unfortunately, there is a struggle for what health care will look like, because resident doctors express opt-out clauses, which in fact maintained our health care at what level, i.e. so far, there has not been such a violent breakdown of health care. Now, Minister, we have a question, as you can see the health services activity at the turn of January and February 2018, because you can't hear any action being taken in this case, the doctors of the residents have spoken, said these clauses. We expect at the turn of January and February total paralysis of health care - total paralysis. There will be no doctors, no one to treat Poles. Minister, what kind of idea do you have? What is your plan for Poles to have a place to go to a doctor after January 1st and for this doctor to take prescriptions to diagnose diseases? What will you do to provide medical care for our citizens? Because according to the statements that the doctors of the residents keep repeating, there will be no one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] cure Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u692	Thank you very much, sir. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u693	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not surprised you're saying that you expect there to be a great deal of confusion about health care in January... [[I'm expecting it.]] ...and patients will be in danger. You expect this every quarter because you also expected on October 1st that there would be a huge commotion, you knew that patients would not be admitted to hospitals, they would die on the streets. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you about the process of discussions and ongoing negotiations with the health environment. I would like to stress that these talks have been going on for several years, for at least two years now. They've been very intensive in recent months. We met with the resident environment and later with the Medical Profession Agreement several times, over a dozen times. As a result of these meetings, concrete solutions have been developed and these projects are being implemented. We believe that changing this form of protest to a milder form is the result these discussions and discussions on the future of health protection in Poland. We appreciate these conversations very much, and we appreciate the fact that residents have decided to abandon this very dramatic protest and the conversations are conducted in a completely different atmosphere. And now I would like to recall a few facts that show that the Ministry of Health is responding to situations on an ongoing basis, taking concrete actions that should make health care in Poland more friendly in the future. than in the last eight years, when governments were held by the previous coalition. Ladies and gentlemen! The protest concerned increases in salaries in health care and these demands are being implemented. There is a law, Parliament, the Sejm and the Senate, which has adopted a law on minimum salaries, which implements successive demands which have been presented to our society, implementing the demand to increase salaries. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł also signed a regulation on 27 October on the basis of which an increase in salaries for residents was established. And this salary increase is clear. I would like to stress that all residents receive from 1 July, i.e. with effect from 1 July, an increase of between 400 and 500 PLN gross to basic salary. In addition, residents who this year decide to take up specialization in specialties, which are treated as deficit, receive an additional 1200 PLN. After the full implementation of the law on salary increases in 2021, the resident who specializes in deficit specialties will have a basic salary of more than 5 000. zł. As regards the protection of medical staff, ladies and gentlemen, we have already stressed many times from this stand that from the moment the Government of Law and Justice took over, we have implemented the issue of increasing medical personnel in Poland. Already in 2016 a decision was taken to increase the number of places in medical and dental departments by 20%. As a result, additional funding for the training of future doctors followed. Now, compared to 2015, we have 2800 students at medical universities, so many more than three years ago. Of course, the process of training doctors is long-term, these doctors will only enter the system in a few or several years, but this type of action is being taken. We are also increasing the amount of funding for post-graduate education, increasing the funding for training residents from 800 million in 2015, in 2018 it will be 1170 million. These are concrete actions that the current government and the Ministry of Health take to increase and secure medical staff so that Poles feel safe. Ladies and gentlemen! We're still talking. We meet within the Social Dialogue Council. The next meeting will be held on 15 November. A team was also set up by the Minister of Health to develop system solutions in health care, as well as to examine the Law on Minimum Basic Compensation. Discussions are ongoing, within these teams we meet representatives of environments, trade unions, employers and, above all, patients. I would like to stress that we very much want the situation in Poland, so that the protests of doctors or other medical professionals do not cause a risk to patients, because the whole health system is functioning and is created for patients and our common duty, for us governing, as well as doctors, nurses and other health professionals, is to ensure the safety of patients. From our side [[♪ The bell ♪]] We declare our willingness to continue to cooperate and resolve these problems. We believe that medical professionals will also not harm patients. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u694	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u695	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, as you can see: rod for the previous coalition, laurel for yourself. You have talked a lot about system issues, but, Minister, concretely, because the facts are that this protest - we differ in judgment - ended as badly as it could - the announcement of its escalation, because it is the way to understand the expression of opt-out clauses. And now you're talking about the system, what you're going to do in 2070, and we're interested... And we do not expect, Minister, but we are concerned about how the state will take care of the health of Poles. The question is concrete: What are the concrete measures that will be taken by the State to avoid paralysis in connection with the opt-out by resident doctors? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not a hard question. Minister! This is not about systemic issues that can be resolved and maybe not resolved in the years 5, but about what will be since January, February 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u696	Thank you very much. Now I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u697	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat once again that all the actions we take are directed towards this purpose, so that no escalation will take place... [[But that's not what I asked.]] ...the protests. We believe in the wisdom of health professionals and their responsibility and believe that patients will not be deprived of care. On the other hand, I would like to reply to the honourable Member that, of course, residents play a very important role in the system, they are on duty, and often do these shifts outside of the specialization they are pursuing, but in addition to residents, we also have specialist doctors who have already completed the training process. They play a fundamental and fundamental role in securing health benefits. We believe that what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're negotiating... There is a draft law which assumes a systematic increase in expenditure on health care in Poland. We believe that this project will be adopted by Parliament and will also enable us to meet wage expectations, among others. residents. Therefore, with regard to the timetable for discussions, the work within the Social Dialogue Council, as well as the team that has been set up, are coordinated in such a way that the results of this work can also be included in the budget that you will be adopting together in this Chamber for 2018. We are doing everything we can to ensure that this protest does not actually escalate, and as I said, I hope that we all have the wisdom to not leave the patients unattended, because I think health workers have chosen a particular profession, a profession that is linked to the provision of life and health benefits. This also places a certain responsibility on health workers. I believe that such ideas will also guide residents.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u698	Thank you very much. [[Minister, but there are no contingency plans, then.]] Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to the next question. The next question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski and Ewa Tomaszewska, the Law and Justice Club, on the liquidation of schools in Mazowsze in the years 2009 to 2015. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. The first question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u699	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the fourth term of the Seym of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, i.e. During the years 2010 and 2014, when I was a councillor, most of the decisions of the Committee on Education, Science and Higher Education were decisions on the liquidation of schools in Mazowsze. In Warsaw, too, such decisions were numerous. Given the need to rebuild vocational education, it is difficult not to recall the liquidation of the School Complex No. 28 at ul. Live in Mokotów, where electronics, electricians and ICTs were trained. In this way, it was impossible to continue training in these fields for young people from the southern part of Warsaw, Piaseczna or Góra Kalwaria, for whom it was possible to reach the school on the street. The rabbit was practically impossible due to the time of arrival. Young people, parents, and teachers protested against this decision. Protest against the liquidation of the General Education High School. Kazimierz the Great, in which both sleep. Arthur Górski and I took part, thanks to the strong attitude of teachers, parents and students, he was lucky to have succeeded. The school was saved. Primary school at ul. Niecińska was deprived of the pool built for her. It was taken over by the OSiR created for this purpose, which made it difficult for young people to use the pool. In my opinion, a number of such decisions are currently hindering the implementation of educational reform in Warsaw and Mazowsze. I ask the Minister to explain how earlier decisions to liquidate schools in Mazowsze affected the implementation of the reform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u700	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education of Minister Maciej Kopcia for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u701	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! The problem of the liquidation of schools in 2009 and 2015 was not only about Mazowsze, but about the whole country and was somewhat the result of the statutory changes that were carried out earlier. On 19 March 2009, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 The High Chamber adopted an amendment to the Law on the Education System, which not only consisted in subjecting 6-year-old children to school duties, but also gave full freedom to local authorities in the field of school closures, setting up school circuits and granting permits to establish public schools run by other entities than local self-government units. It also allowed the self-government to get rid of all schools in extreme cases. This was possible by transferring schools to foundations, associations or other entities. As a result of this amendment, the Polish education system has been experiencing undesirable changes which could not be stopped by the school curator or by the Minister of National Education under the regulations adopted. Some units of local government have eliminated their schools in advance, assuming that they will be replaced by non-governmental schools. Such actions resulted in reductions in education expenditure for local government units, mainly due to changes in the way teachers are employed. This phenomenon was highlighted by the Supreme Audit Chamber in discussing the results of the audit. The impact of the liquidation of public schools on the conditions for carrying out the educational tasks of municipalities. The Supreme Audit Chamber has identified concrete examples here. The results presented indicated two phenomena: a significant increase in teachers' salaries, i.e. the number of hours, and a significant reduction in teachers' salaries. Consequently, this resulted in the so-called. savings for local governments. At this point, it should be stressed, as the NIK also pointed out, that part of the school's liquidation was due to the progressive demographic low, which is obviously a fact. From 2009 to 2016, the number of children and young people attending local primary schools, junior high schools, high schools, technicians, primary vocational schools decreased by more than 12%. In the Mazowieckie voivodship, the decrease in the number of pupils was only 2.26%, which shows how this really applies to the issue of the low-level and liquidation. With regard to the data available to the Minister for National Education, there are no detailed data on the liquidation of schools in 2009, 2010 and 2011, because the educational information system only indicates numerical examples of changes in schools, i.e. this cannot be specified in detail. On the other hand, data has been collected by education curators and Minister of National Education since 2012. By comparing these data and data obtained from the educational information system, we can say that within 4 years - from 2011 to 2015 - local government units eliminated 1327 primary schools, junior high schools, general education schools, technicians and basic vocational schools for children and young people throughout the country. This statistics cover only those schools for young people who were self-government, whose liquidation was not due to a change in the school system, i.e. the liquidation of a particular type of school, such as. Profiled high school. Among those 1327 schools, 1085 schools showed the number of pupils, in other words, it was about 60,000. students. If we were to compare the data on teachers, taking into account the fact that based on the educational information system, we could identify only self-employed schools not functioning in teams, then we could say that 7,000 were employed in schools that were wound up. teachers, and the jobs were 5413. With regard to the Mazowieckie voivodship itself, 147 schools for children and young people, including 106 primary schools, 9 secondary schools, 13 general schools, 12 technicians and 7 basic vocational schools, have been removed during the four years we can use this data. It is also worth looking at that in the case of Mazowsze it represents as much as 7% schools over the years. More than 3,000 attended them. students. In other words, most of these schools were students. As regards the analysis of this system, which was adopted on 29 December 2005, the law changed the educational system, including strengthening the role of the school's curator, i.e. the school's liquidation requires a positive opinion of the curator, and therefore the state is now more effectively controlling the issue of the liquidation of schools, in particular the small schools which, thanks to these statutory changes, were able to save themselves and, together with the education reform, these schools could turn into 8-year primary schools, because the problem that you spoke about was mainly the primary schools. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u702	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, the second question is asked by Mr Dariusz Piontkowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u703	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Although the question concerns Mazowsze, I think it would be worth asking what Mazowsze looks like against the background of other voivodships. Does this number of schools decommissioned differ from the level of other voivodships? Do you have data that would allow you to look at this? It was most often said that local governments had eliminated these tiny schools, where there were dozens, 20 or 30 students. Do your data support this trend? Were there also schools where there were even several hundred students? As far as the structure is concerned, in addition to primary schools, what types of schools were mostly liquidated by local governments? Were these liquidations mostly liquidations carried out by rural governments or largely also by cities? One last question. You mentioned that there are local governments in Poland, which at some point got rid of all their schools. How serious is this phenomenon, how many local governments in Poland are involved? Do you have data on all such self-governments in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u704	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Minister Maciej Kopcia to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u705	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Fortunately, the phenomenon we're talking about, which was that local governments were getting rid of all schools, is a curiosity phenomenon. Such a very characteristic example, very often indicated, was the municipality of Hanna, which does not run any primary school or any secondary school, i.e. according to data from the educational information system in the years 2017 and 2018 there are two primary schools run by the association, two primary schools run by foundations and middle school run by the foundation. Probably such a dramatic example were primary schools and middle school in Dąbki, Darłowo County, West Pomeranian Voivodeship. We can say that there the protest of parents and teachers about the liquidation of this school was particularly dramatic. Despite the opinion of the curator, this school was threatened with liquidation because there was no positive or negative opinion of the curator with a certain legal effect, i.e. a negative opinion of the curator did not change anything. In the end, it was the voivode who decided to stop this liquidation, in the end this school team is functioning, or rather functioning, after the changes in this primary school are still middle school classes. As I said, there are several such examples, but this one I would say encyclopedic, the other very dramatic. If you compare the issues that you have spoken about, they concern... There is a difficulty in referring the Mazowieckie voivodship to other voivodships, because the Mazowieckie voivodship is specific, but if we look at it, they were most often schools with students, also in other voivodships, and those which had several hundred pupils. In other words, if we looked at the years 2014 to 2015, 27 schools were liquidated in the Mazowieckie voivodship, in the Łódź voivodship - 10, in the Lesser Poland voivodship - 19, in the Wielkopolskie voivodship - 19. If only we'd looked at the others. [[♪ The bell ♪]] dates, of course, this indicator would be similar. In other words, the size of the Mazowieckie voivodship must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u706	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The next question is asked by Monika Wielichowska and Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, on the treatment of women in the Cracow military police department. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. The question is asked by Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u707	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to tell you a story, a true story. The real history of Private Eve in the Cracow Military Gendarmery branch. High Izbo! The woman began her service in 2015, unfortunately she met quickly with ill-treatment from her superiors. The sketches began one week after the beginning of the service: hours of duty day after day, making documents that will be out of date in a month's time, ordering to attend the service at hours. 4 a.m., although the individual's life begins at hours. 6. It became a standard: non-accounting for business trips, non-payment of overtime, lack of due holidays, fraud in journals and graphics, which were filled with pencils, which facilitated their subsequent forgery. During one of the courses, a woman found out she was pregnant. The course commander therefore ordered the private to participate in the passive course. For two weeks at the turn of February and March she stood in the cold between hours. 8 a 15, seeing as others exercise, endangering their health and health of the child. After returning from the course, a woman found out that her pregnancy was at risk. Because of the absurd decision of the Course Commander, she could have lost her child. Although she was on sick leave when she returned from school, she was disturbed by calls from the MPs at least once a week, she was told to come and arrange formalities. Formalities related to the application for maternity leave have proved to be a very big problem and the staff did not know the procedures in this case. When she had the baby, she found out that the military wouldn't extend her contract. The opinions she received after she was discharged had nothing to do with her course. In addition, it turned out that her assessments were falsified in the journal. As Private Eve's history shows, women in the army, Minister, are still often treated worse than men, even though from year to year in the army of women. I would therefore like to ask what action will the Ministry take or take on this appalling matter? That's basically the only question that closes this whole thing. I'll tell you if the Minister doesn't give me the answer that the public wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u708	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence of Minister Michał Dworczyk to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u709	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the questions raised in the question made by the Members. The first question was, what is the position of the MON in this case, because the thesis is as shown by the history of the private Ewa Wręk, that women in the military are often treated worse than men, even though from year to year, as the honourable Member has pointed out, women are coming. Indeed, women are coming, and we are happy about it. The ladies have their representation, i.e. they have both a female minister's attorney, a colonel who takes care of and helps with all the problems that women have signaled, and her representative elected by them through internal democratic elections that are being made between women serving in the military. I also met with this bottom-up representative, which is not with the minister's representative, but with those bottom-up representatives and ladies who represented individual individuals. We've been talking about these problems that come up. I'll admit that this kind of situation, as described in your envoy's question, was not signalled by any of those ladies who attended the meeting, and there were ladies from the private corps, petty officers and officers, so full section. All the more reason for us to investigate this matter thoroughly. The official supervision carried out in the police department in Krakow after the publication of Onet did not confirm those irregularities which were signalled in the published material. The basis for your release was the refusal to enter into another contract. The decision to refuse to conclude the contract was taken by the commander of the Military Gendarmerie Branch in Krakow, taking into account the unambiguously negative opinions of all the Private Service Superiors on the application. In this respect it was found that the commandant of the police department in Krakow acted within the limits of his powers. I also tried to ask what kind of reservations were, because what I would like to stress at the outset is that this verification procedure, which was launched at the personal order of Minister Macierewicz, has not yet been completed. They were e.g. such reservations that during the shooting exercises Mrs. Violetta Wnyk, once this was the case, refused to decompose and lay down her weapons because of the newly imposed tipes. In short, she didn't want to destroy them, and when she was decomposing and folding weapons, it could happen. Other examples have also been given, but this will, as I said, be thoroughly tested and analysed. Second question: Is the MON aware of the scandalous behavior of superiors in the Cracow military police department? The result of supervision in the police department in Krakow did not confirm the irregularity. In the case of a soldier described in the publication, all legal procedures and regulations have been retained. The superiors in the Military Police Department in Krakow made all decisions concerning your private, keeping proper relations with the superior - subordinate. No breach of these rules has been found. Private Wioletta Wnęk was treated with due respect and in accordance with the rules of the Polish Armed Forces during the military service in the police department. She has exercised all rights related to pregnancy, especially her right to leave. On the day the pregnancy certificate was presented, the woman was relieved of her duties. The pregnancy certificate or any other document showed that the pregnancy was not at risk. The relationship of the superiors to the Private Hole was favorable, as evidenced by, among others. consent by the branch commander to conduct business by the private lady while she was already on sick leave and leave, and consent to her foreign trips to Miami, the United States and elsewhere. Is the Ministry aware of how women are treated in the Cracow police department? A meeting of the Minister of National Defence for the military service of women with all women serving in this department took place in the police department in Krakow on 3 November. During the meeting, women soldiers did not confirm the failure to comply with the rules of service and the soldier's behaviour towards women in the Cracow branch. How is it possible that the personnel in the Military Police Unit do not know the procedures for applying for maternity leave? The answer is that a soldier who wants to take a leave must complete simple formalities, as in any workplace and in any other unit, i.e. complete the application and obtain the approval of the superior. The statements on maternity or paternity leave are incorrect. As regards the patterns of leave applications, they are generally available to all soldiers and are in a generally accessible place in the personnel section. Why didn't the Course Commander send her home when he saw that the woman was pregnant? That's another question. The answer is that your private inside has not presented a medical certificate or any other document, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which would indicate she's pregnant. Right after she did, she was fired and then stopped attending the course. And last question: What will the MON take on the Kraków Military Gendarmerie branch? I would like to answer that, as I mentioned, the Minister of National Defence personally ordered control. This check will continue, there will still be talks. Mrs. Ink will also be asked to present her version of the events. There will be discussions with those participating in the course and, depending on the final findings, appropriate action will be taken or, if this information is found to be incorrect, no procedures will be put in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u710	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask me another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u711	Yes, actually, although I wanted to say at first, Minister, it is probably highly inappropriate that here in the High House you are talking about some tips, whether or not they were there or not, by mentioning the serial name. I didn't mention that name, first of all. Secondly, you said, Minister, that the case is pending, it is not over yet. When can we expect information about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u712	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the name of your private lady appeared in the press material, so I don't see anything out of the ordinary in the fact that I'm exchanging it today, because we're talking about a particular person who made their data available to the media. Secondly, talking about a particular case is an example of behaviour that has been negatively assessed by the superiors, and I see nothing inappropriate about it. Thirdly, I believe that this matter needs to be clarified as precisely as possible, so I do not want to state the day date that will be on 15 November or 20 November, but hopefully by the end of this month. We will make every effort to clarify this matter in the end of the month, and of course we will also inform the Members in writing on this matter. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u713	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Ms Anita Czerwińska and Ms Catherine Czochar of the Law and Justice Club on the measures taken to combat child obesity. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Mrs Anita Czerwińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u714	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Katarzyna Chechara and I wanted to ask you about the measures taken to prevent obesity, to combat obesity in children. Such estimates show that up to 15 to 30% of children during adolescence are overweight or obese. This is, of course, linked to serious health consequences, both in developmental age and later, in the elderly. It is said that an obese child means an obese adult, which means that in adult life there is a continuation of this obesity in 80% of obese children. This phenomenon is also referred to as an epidemic at the moment, because indeed in recent years there has been a sharp increase in the number of children affected by this disease. The first part of the question is about research. Are there any tests being carried out? Because the ones we've gotten to... It is stressed that the research carried out so far is based on different materials as well as on different methods of research. So the first part of our question is whether such comprehensive research is being carried out, in order to be able, first, to estimate the scale of this phenomenon, and secondly, what is very important, to identify people, children at risk of this condition. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, on prevention, prevention, this question will be asked by Mrs Czochar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u715	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr. Zbigniew the King to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u716	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! High Izbo! Thank you for this question, because we're actually dealing with the world, and I don't want to say above-the-counter, but an epidemic of obesity. I'd reverse that statement a little bit. A healthy child is then a healthy adult. But it's also the other way around. An obese parent is in large part, in large proportions, in over 60%, an obese child. In principle, studies are actually carried out by different institutes and bodies. There is one study that combines all these activities, a study carried out in cooperation with the WHO, which took place last year. It was a study, you can say, a pilot and probably those were the elements you've reached. We definitely see the problem, we see the problem, and we are also preparing specific solutions. But here these specific solutions are probably related to the other part of the question - I have here a list specifically written so as not to forget any of the elements. These programmes are important, they are under the umbrella of the National Health Programme, on the basis of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 4 August 2016, in which we have indicated as the first operational objective the improvement of diet, nutrition and physical activity of society in its entirety. On the other hand, as regards children, the implementation of this programme is intended to contribute primarily to halting the increase in the number of overweight and obesity, which will result in a decrease in the burden on the population of chronic non-infectious diseases and a reduction in their maturity and premature mortality due to these diseases. To achieve this objective in accordance with the abovementioned above. measures are planned for the total amount of up to PLN 37 million per year. Under these measures, both analytical studies are carried out, i.e. a kind of information base on the scale of the epidemic, as well as specific programmes, can be said to be preventive in the field of public health, mainly preventive and related to health education. If I can read this here right away, then maybe the answer to the question of concrete actions will be directed at specific actions. Thus, in the framework of the 1.2.1 task, trainings and workshops have been carried out for persons responsible for the implementation of mass nutrition in units of the education system. The total amount is PLN 25 624, the realist - Foundation of the School in Widelc. The implementation of this task is an element in support of the application of the Regulation of the Minister of Health on groups of foodstuffs intended for sale to children and young people in units of the educational system and the requirements which must be met by foodstuffs used in the mass feed of children and young people in those units. The Regulation on groups of foodstuffs intended to be sold to children and young people in units of the education system and the requirements to be met by foodstuffs used in the mass feed of children and young people in those units showed the need for education in the implementation of the principles of sound nutrition, including training of the staff responsible for feeding in units of the education system. Access to foodstuffs containing significant amounts of saturated fatty acids and salt and sugar has been restricted. The education system also prohibits advertising and promotion to encourage the purchase of foodstuffs not covered by groups of foodstuffs intended for children and young people. Task 2.6 : Creating support groups for people with obesity - this is a broader project that does not divide the age population; here there are support groups for people with diagnosed obesity, regardless of age, in Toruń and Kalisz. The total amount is almost 100,000. zł. Task 1.4.1: Education of health workers in the principles of healthy nutrition and physical activity. Work has been started on the establishment of an e-learning platform for health care professionals on principles of healthy nutrition and physical activity. This is where the realist is. The Academy of Health Protection. The action continues in 2017. The sum of the appropriations is around 150 000. zł. Task 3.1.12 - the implementation of this research, which was mentioned here at the beginning. We also want to continue this in 2017. The additional amount is 50,000, i.e. the sum for this analytical task is approx. 400,000. zł. As part of the competition procedure already proposed in 2017, the following tasks began to be carried out. Task 1.2.1: The adoption of food dissemination initiatives is a continuation of the task of training and workshops for persons responsible for the implementation of collective nutrition in units of the education system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Children's Development Foundation Jan Amos Komenski. As for these other things, maybe I'll give you the rest on the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u717	Good. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Katarzyna Chechara for another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u718	In view of all that Mrs Anita Czerwińska has said here, Minister, it must be said that these are very important issues, and this is a huge problem when it comes to obesity. We know how many diseases of later age, including among adults, cause obesity of the Polish society, but not only because the European Commission, too, has reached such materials, placing a great deal of emphasis on the issues of obesity of children and young people. My question is whether the Ministry has taken action and, if not, whether it intends to take such action, also aimed at treatment and prevention, but also at stationary, namely based on healthy nutrition, healthy lifestyles, but also on concrete solutions, may also support whole families. Because the fact that a child is obese, you know, you have to raise his awareness, but very often it's not just a school, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is not only a school environment, it is a backyard environment, but it is the family that is very much responsible for the way a person conducts his life.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u719	I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u720	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, Member. These are activities that, I understand, relate to people already obese, diagnosed with severe obesity, which also has its grades, so to speak when it comes to therapy. It mainly affects adults in Poland. For children, we also have these programs. At the moment it is already at the stage, so to speak, the recent consultation of the bariatric treatment programme in the framework of the benefit basket, so that the procedure for the surgical treatment of extreme obesity, firstly, is financed, and secondly, is in this comprehensive mode. Such activities shall be carried out independently of those preventive parts. But as for the program that relates to family support... [[Stationary stay.]] As far as stationary stays are concerned, we do not have such a programme, because here we can not find much evidence of the effectiveness of such programmes in other countries which have begun to fight obesity, as you say, in other countries. This country, where quite a lot of action has been taken definitely before, was, in fact, the first country in Europe, the United Kingdom. This is a series of activities that we are trying to implement here to our actions, you can say: one to one. An example of such support is the running of a nationwide center of nutrition education and healthy lifestyle. As part of this task, the National Centre for Nutrition Education will be conducted, which will enable everyone to access reliable data, among others. about food, principles of rational nutrition, healthy lifestyles, diets in individual disease units. A diet centre will also be established with specialists online, video boards and chat rooms with nutritionists, doctors in areas related to diet dependent diseases. The Institute of Food and Nutrition will carry out this task. In the years 2017 and 2018, the amount allocated to this task will amount to almost PLN 3.5 million to simply cover these activities comprehensively. Something that we get to teenagers best with are various types of smartphone programs that allow you to measure, count calories, steps and daily intake of food and calories in appropriate parameters broken down into fats, sugars and proteins so that you simply maintain this form. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is still run with the GIS program, keep form in schools, but also with parents. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u721	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 52 hrs. 21 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. Let's move on to the next question. Ms Joanna Borowiak, Ms Jolanta Szczypińska, Ms Anna Milczanowska and Ms Lydia Burzyńska, the Law and Justice Club, on the 2016-2023 programme of railway investments, which was adopted in September 2016. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. The first question is asked by Mrs... [[Borowiac.]] ... Borowiac. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u722	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The programme of railway investments for the years 2016 and 2020 was adopted in September 2016. Not only buildings serving passengers from the largest Polish cities, but also from many smaller towns, are included in the list of buildings planned for reconstruction. Most of the investment involves a thorough modernisation, but PKP SA also plans to build new stations. The programme included a comprehensive modernisation of 164 stations. The station's investment programme has been extended and supplemented by the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction by additional locations and will cover nearly 200 stations. This was announced at the conference presenting this programme on 26 October 2017. The station's investment programme is the biggest project for modernization of the Polish railway. Modernized stations will be modern, cost-effective, suitable for disabled people. Railway stations will be modernised in a comprehensive way. In connection with the implementation of the station investment programme, I would like to ask the Minister the following questions. Has the Ministry of Infrastructure prepared a similar programme before 2015? Is this the first and innovative solution that the previous governing teams have not presented? What criteria have been taken into account when introducing railway stations to the list of railway stations? What has been taken into account? Will the implementation of the programme ensure equal opportunities for well-growing urban agglomerations and areas that have been degraded, e.g. as a result of the loss of voivodship status? Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u723	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Kazimierz Smolinski, will answer the question. Thank you so much for looking out for the messengers in the cockroaches.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u724	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Station investments were in operation before 2015. Between 2007 and 2015, investments were carried out for 121 plants in Poland, while there was no such station investment programme as was adopted by the current Ministry, by PKP SA and of course approved by the owner, which is represented by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Previous investments were carried out in a rather chaotic way, because from year to year some stations were selected and investments were carried out. Sometimes investments were made concerning the building, sometimes platforms or tracks themselves, sometimes both could be realised. The station's investment programme, which is adopted, provides for a comprehensive implementation by 2023, i.e. if something is already implemented, it will always be implemented comprehensively, both the station building and the platforms including the railway line. They will certainly be implemented where new investments are planned in the form of modernisation of the railway line. At the current 189 stations we plan to spend about 1.4 billion. It's going to be a period of about six years. Previously, over 8 years, investments were made for 121 stations in the amount of approx. PLN 1 billion. It was, I repeat, done without the program and in a rather chaotic way. At the moment there is a programme - this is the answer to further questions - which provides for specific criteria adopted for the implementation of this programme. First of all, we want to increase access for passengers, we want to categorize the stations and modernise them, we want to cooperate with local government units, locate integrated connecting nodes, take into account current investment and renovation activities of the PKP, the degree of progress of the work on previously prepared investments or investments already carried out, or already carried out investment work, and the exclusion from modernisation of stations completed after 2010, i.e. those carried out before 2010. The categories of railway lines at which these stations are located are also introduced. It's a priority. A, i.e. high - stations located on railway lines modernised under the program. Priority B, i.e. mid-stations located on modernised lines, which are in the process of upgrading or planned to be upgraded in the perspective of 2023. Priority C, i.e. low-stations located on non-modernised lines and not included in the modernisation plans in the perspective of 2023. We take into account the social criterion, including the aspects of the country's sustainable economic and social development, the criterion of investment activities started and the criterion of measurable passenger flows, taking into account the daily number of train stops, based on data from the Railway Transport Office. As a result of the above process, the ranking of the project groups covered by the station's investment programme was created. We also define the need for modernization of stations to establish and close a list of projects. This allowed PKP to prepare investment plans, which require cooperation between PKP, which owns the stations, and PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe, which owns railway lines and platforms. Unfortunately, because there was no integrated programme, so far there has been no cooperation and there have been such absurd situations that the building has been renovated, not renovated platforms, or vice versa - platforms have been renovated, upgraded and not modernised. At the moment, it is clear that the needs of people with disabilities or women with children in wheelchairs are taken into account in any modernization. Of course, this is the standard for any modernization at the moment. The needs of residents are also taken into account, often outside the scope of travel services, as well as the needs of local authorities by making part of the area available. This is generally the case for individual contacts between the local government and one or the other company, depending on what this cooperation is about. It can be about platforms, because sometimes there are commercial or service facilities, but of course they are located rather in railway stations' buildings, there are a lot of these service facilities for travellers, and it is used not only by travellers, but also by residents of nearby houses or the whole village, depending on whether it is a city or a village. Especially in small towns, this is very valuable. I think that is as much as the answer is concerned, Commissioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u725	I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to ask a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u726	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! On the list, as you said, there are stations designed not only for construction but also for modernization. In the selection of WW. the options will also be taken into account by the expectations of local communities so that, regardless of the way the investment is made, the main idea is to improve the comfort of travellers by adapting the station functions better? In order to adapt buildings to the needs of people with reduced mobility, it is necessary to adapt the buildings to those places where the stations will be modernised - I hope that this will be the case in Częstochowa - to adapt platforms to the use of disabled people. I have another question: Are co-financing with local authorities envisaged for the implementation of this programme? The Minister said it would be carried out in cooperation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With local governments. Will the use of such a form of cooperation speed up the implementation of station investments and create an opportunity for stations to become elements of connecting hubs integrating different modes of transport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u727	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u728	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Continuing what I said earlier, I will say once again that of course it must be this cooperation with local authorities, not only at the level of consultation, but also on the basis of workshops that take place between the company, whether it is PKP SA or PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe, depending on what is to be modernised. We are very much in favour of building integrated transport hubs, precisely such nodes where there is both rail and bus transport, there are taxis, there is urban communication, there are even four modes of transport, and it is for travellers, so to speak, a connecting place. Bearing in mind that the stations are mostly located in city centers, and of course the creation of such an integrated junction is also conducive to integration around this environment, especially in smaller towns, in villages the same way, we are very interested in this and many wojcie are ready to co-finance it. Especially when it comes to this part of integrated nodes, the cooperation of local authorities is expected as much as possible. Regional operational programmes can also support this as much as possible. As regards the reconstruction of platforms or stations themselves, we provide for measures under the road investment programme. As far as these nodes are concerned, of course we are also very interested in cooperation, with the fact that we do not have any specially large resources for this. We assume, however, that this will be implemented by local governments, because they are usually local governments. On the other hand, we can make these areas available if they are, for example. rail, together with local authorities, we can even implement joint investments in this area. We are also interested in restoring e.g. post offices at railway stations. Once at every station, there was basically a post office as a separate building. Over the years, they've been wiped out. [[There are e-mails now.]] Since we are still sending hundreds of millions of letters, maybe not in private correspondence, but the administration is still using it, even though we are introducing e-government, it is still traditional mail. This is particularly important for new types of services, i.e. courier services. They're developing, there's e-commerce, online sales. You have to deliver this product and here there are not only couriers, but also mail is involved. So we'd like the mail to return to some stations as well. But, of course, this also requires the involvement of local authorities who want such institutions to be created, the involvement of the post office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and cooperation with the Polish State Railways. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u729	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members: Sławomir Nitras, Arkadiusz Marchewka and Norbert Obrycki, the Civic Platform Club, on the actions taken by IPN to the detriment of the Polish Genetic Base of Totalitarian Victims. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u730	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Genetic Base of Victims of Totalitarianism is a project of the Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin, which was created as part of the cooperation, by agreement with the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. It was concluded in Szczecin already in 2012. It is a unique project, it was a unique project not only in Europe but also on a global scale. Similarly, projects exist in the field of forensics. Here we have the genetic database of totalitarian victims. From the beginning, the medical university treated it as a research project called "Exploring unknown burial sites for victims of communist terror 1944-1956." And suddenly we learn that the Pomeranian Medical University has ceased to like the IPN, Szczecin and this location have ceased to like, despite the great experience, great recognition in the world. A very bad information campaign was launched against the medical university - as if it had excessive claims against IPN, against the state budget. This, of course, turns out not to be true. Negotiations were conducted in an imposing, non-partner manner. Full commercialisation of the identification project would practically make the medical university and each university incapacitated. The University of Pomerania is outside the consortium of seven universities, which are supposed to lay the foundations for a new project, actually under the commercial project of IPN. The medical university in Szczecin could not agree to this because the provisions of the agreement which had been submitted to it practically prevented scientific research in the proposed formula and everything was dependent on the IPN. Therefore, we would like to ask the question: What happened that suddenly such a prominent university, so experienced, so recognized in the world, [[♪ The bell ♪]] With such an important project, didn't he like the government website and IPN? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u731	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Deputy Prosecutor General, the Director of the Chief Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationalist Mr Andrzej Pozorski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u732	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I'm from Szczecin, too, and I'm wholeheartedly behind the Pomeranian Medical University. [[Let me see that.]] Ladies and gentlemen, exhumation works, which are carried out in Poland and which aim to extract the remains of Polish heroes, are primarily carried out in the course of criminal proceedings. Exhumations so called. administrative are very sporadic and are unique. Indeed, on 4 October this year. The Institute of National Remembrance signed a contract with a research consortium, which included seven universities. I will exchange them: Toruń, Białystok, Poznań, Wrocław, Lublin and Warsaw. But I would like to stress here what is probably very important: the agreement that has been concluded is very short, it expires on 31 December this year, i.e. it was concluded without a small period of less than 3 months. Indeed, the Pomeranian Medical University did not form part of this group. As Deputy Attorney General, I did not participate in the work of creating this agreement because it is not my authority, it is not my competence, it does not belong to the investigative level at all. But, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the universities that are part of this consortium, as a matter of fact, as prosecutors with all these universities, we've worked together before. They were simply appointed as proficient, as specialized institutions - the aim was, on the one hand, to profile the bone material and, on the other hand, to carry out identification tests. Mr President, in the course of these criminal proceedings very often, and in fact we almost always take advantage of the knowledge and experience of the Pomeranian Medical University, and I can risk saying that this is the university that has carried out the largest amount of research for us prosecutors. In my opinion, and here I believe we are no different from you, nor are we different from the prosecutors who set up this university, her work is done at the highest level. The university actually has the highest quality equipment and scientific staff has very extensive experience in profiling bone material as well as identification tests. It must also be said that not all institutions or forensics are taking on the task of profiling the bone material that lay in the ground for 60 or 70 years. These are very difficult studies and undoubtedly very laborious. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent times, which has been very medial, we have concluded the so-called. Exhumation works on the Link. This was stage two. These works were actually carried out and supervised by prosecutors because they are all carried out in the course of criminal proceedings. During these tests, we secured about 340 samples of bone material today. This is a very large amount. To speed up this research, the first tranche, in the size of approx. 180 samples were transferred to the Sehna Institute in Cracow. On the other hand, after obtaining the profile of this bone material, all samples are transferred to the PUM, because the Pomeranian Medical University, the Member, carries out identification tests. To speed this up and not to block the work and the Sehna Institute, and the PUM, we as prosecutors - I am currently responsible for prosecutors - we share this work. You're right to have noticed... And it's not true that it's gone to shit because there's still an agreement in 2012 and the university has genetic material. This base still exists, we use it and we use it. We as prosecutors do not question in any way the competence or experience of the Szczecin University. Mr, then there was a second stage of research on the Link. We've secured... There are 150 samples in the second tranche. There's a lot we can be wrong about the quantity. Mr. President, in the days... We have divided these samples because we do not want the Sehna Institute to block the amount of work being done. We decided to divide these samples, i.e. some of the samples went to the Sehna Institute and after they were profiled, the prosecutor will appoint experts from the PUM, and the PUM will make an identification, while about 60 or 70 samples were transferred immediately to the PUM. On days - this is information literally from the last moment - we sent it to the PUM so that the Sehna Institute could speed up its work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not just calling universities from the consortium. We don't stick to this because as prosecutors, we act on the Code of Criminal Procedure and the consortium doesn't tie us up. The consortium may be tied up by a search office that he has to issue a tender and all that other stuff to use this research. Fortunately, we have full freedom here, and we are primarily driven by whether the university is able to do so and at what time, and for what financial means, because it is immeasurably important. On the other hand, I would like to stress that by 17 November this year. The President of the Institute of National Remembrance will announce the tender and this agreement is to be concluded for 4 years. At the moment, it is difficult for us to determine what will happen after 1 January, because of what I mentioned here, that this consortium agreement expires on 31 December this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u733	Thank you very much, Mr. Prosecutor. Please, the second question is asked by Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u734	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. District Attorney, I don't know why you're answering that question, really, and I'm a little surprised to see you. I'll talk about it in a minute. I'll read you something that's written in Wikipedia. I didn't write it, it says in Wikipedia. The Polish Genetic Base of Totalitarian Victims is the first such comprehensive base in Europe. The plans for the creation of a similar type exist in the Russian Federation, to a lesser extent also in Germany. It's also a unique action on the scale of the world. The United States, the United Kingdom and Australia have similar bases, but in the field of forensics. And you're telling me you're gonna make a bid for who's gonna run it. You've got the best base in the world, the best, and you're making a bid because you're doing everything you can to destroy Szczecin to take this genetic base, this whole thing. It's not your fault. It is the fault of Mr. Brother-in-law, the IPN and people who are insane with such an idea: we will find all the national heroes, even though scientific research does not suggest it. Your fault is one thing: if you're from Szczecin and you come here and you're firming this task, you let it happen, you should be ashamed, because it's Szczecin they're robbing. You should be ashamed of yourself. You should be ashamed of Brudziński. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He guaranteed that the base would be in Szczecin. This base is to be included in the bill. This is your duty, because Szczecin has his work and just as Jagiellonian does not come from Krakow, so the genetic base must not be taken from Szczecin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u735	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u736	And consider what you're saying here on behalf of the Attorney General. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u737	Thank you very much, sir. Please also refer to this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u738	Mr President, I have nothing to be ashamed of. You actually started your speech well, and I... [[You're not the judge of my speeches.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u739	I'm asking you to calm down, okay? May I have this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u740	I shouldn't be the recipient of those questions. [[It's true.]] Sir, I'm in criminal proceedings. We use PUM. Ask Dr. Ossowski, who I'm working with, if Dr. Ossowski has any grudge against the prosecutors of the investigation. Ask and then make critical remarks about me. [[Why are you here?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u741	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u742	I'm the D.A., I don't make deals, and I don't make tenders. I'm just informing you that the IPN is preparing this. I'm a prosecutor, and I'm conducting proceedings under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u743	Thank you very much. [[Your marshal, on a formal matter.]] No. [[But one sentence on a formal issue.]] But... [[Excuse me, Marshal. About the formal issue.]] No. You're welcome... [[Marshal, this is an outrageous matter. A prosecutor who has nothing to do with this case cannot answer the questions of Members who are concerned with another matter.]] Mr President, please step down from the podium. [[But the D.A. himself says he's not needed here.]] (PL) Mr President, Mr President, [[I expect the questions to be answered by someone competent, who is responsible for this, and who is not going to send a man who has nothing to do with this case.]] Mr President, please step down from the podium. [[It's just a disgrace.]] Thank you very much. [[Your marshal, but you should pay attention too.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus, Ms Elżbieta Duda and Mr Halina Szydłoko, the Law and Justice Club, on the unjustified fine-making by bailiffs to employees of the Social Security Office for reducing tax deductions from the lowest pension benefits after the introduction from 1 July this year. an increased amount free of deductions and activities - to the Minister of Justice. The question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u744	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From 1 July this year. has entered into force an amendment to the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. This bill adopted last year was very long awaited. It states that 75% the amount of the lowest pension, and today it is 750 PLN, is free from any deductions. The question of how to charge these deductions was explained, as a result of my interpellation, among others. by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, because for those who receive such low benefits and have additional bailouts, it is very, very incriminating. Let us imagine that one of us comes to live for several hundred zlotys a month. The Act, as I said, entered into force on 1 July this year, and immediately after that date the branches of the Social Insurance Institution, especially to the Social Insurance Institution in Warsaw, began to receive bail-outs to make deductions from social pensions. From 1 March this year. Social pension is PLN 840. The U.S.S. found that after deduction of the health contribution and tax, the remaining amount was not subject to bail-outs and that it was appropriate for the bailiffs to respond in matters relating to bail-out activities. The bailiffs, and especially one Warsaw bailiff, called the Social Insurance Institution for further deductions in response. They calculated that each month they should receive 90 PLN. However, the position of the Social Security Office has been confirmed [[♪ The bell ♪]] By the Ministry and bailiffs, they began to fine their employees. In my opinion, this is unacceptable. Of course, all these penalties are being brought to court, but I think there's some way we need to settle this institutionally.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u745	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u746	Minister, I suspect you know this case because it's loud. What can the Ministry of Justice do and do in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u747	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Warchoł for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u748	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, Madame, the problem has arisen against differences in the amount free of deduction from social security benefits and fines imposed by bailiffs. Namely, the amount of PLN 840 mentioned by the Member is indeed the gross amount of the so-called. social pensions. Let us remember, however, that the basis for calculating according to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1a The Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund is the lowest pension, which amounts to PLN 1000. As you have rightly pointed out, this is 750 PLN. Therefore, this PLN 750 constitutes the amount of the guarantee from which it cannot be waived. Therefore, it is not possible to make the kind of interpretation that the bailiffs make. And here is the full agreement with the president of ZUS Mrs Uścińska, as well as fully agree with the position of Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska, who in a letter dated 3 November this year. indicated that the interpretation of bailiffs is incompatible with the provisions of Article. 139 and Article 139 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 141 of the indicated law on pensions. In view of the above, the changes we propose, the solutions we propose, are primarily supervisory solutions concerning the supervision of bailiffs. All these cases are and will be carefully investigated by the Ministry in terms of possible disciplinary proceedings against bailiffs. It is then about checking all enforcement files as to whether or not there has been a serious infringement of the law in these cases, which could result in this type of liability. We have already asked the President of the District Court in Warsaw and the President of the District Court of Warsaw-Prague to determine on the basis of the enforcement file what the facts were and whether such an infringement occurred. The answers obtained will be analysed by us and, depending on the outcome, a decision will be taken on the follow-up of supervisory activities. This is the first case. The second point concerns organisational changes, of which the President also informed in her letter. Indeed, it is necessary to consider this, whether it is appropriate to introduce appropriate legislative changes, so that there is no such doubt, because, remember, in this case, it is the lowest pension of PLN 750, which is the minimum existence, the minimum social one that cannot be deducted from for the second time. In fact, the interpretation of the bailiffs would lead to a double deduction, as the honourable Member rightly pointed out, of the amounts for both health insurance contributions and advances and other claims on personal income tax. We'd just count it down twice. Hence, this interpretation is difficult to agree with. This is why legislative changes on this issue actually seem justified. The last point concerns legislative changes concerning the imposition of fines on the staff of the organisational units mentioned by the President in the letter. Indeed, it can be considered whether such conduct is appropriate in this case and whether any changes would be advisable. These are the actions we're already taking. Depending on the query made on the information provided by the courts, we will take further action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u749	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u750	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for these actions in the supervisory procedure, because you will admit that this is a puriazum, that the bailiffs call for deductions... call for the identification of those responsible for deductions and it is the employees who receive penalties of 500 PLN, 1000 PLN, as this provision allows - up to 2000 PLN, and are threatened with further penalties for doing their duties. Right now, I have a knowledge of over 70,000. imposed penalties: penalties for the President's failure to indicate the person responsible for specific activities, but also penalties for branch directors, inspectors' managers. It seems like a psychic. There is no penalty for the authority, only the employee, that he carries out his duties, that he does not deduct illegal activities. I wanted to say that it's not only stress for all those employees who work for relatively little money, but also their time is occupied, because we know that everyone is appealing to the court. I think it's been a few dozen court cases. So thank you so much for what you've done so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u751	Thank you very much. Will the Minister answer that question again? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u752	Thank you very much. That is why, indeed, legislative changes, as I said, seem necessary, legislative changes in two areas. Firstly, in material and legal matters, it is a matter of clarifying those solutions which are at the moment - Article. 139 and Article 139 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ There are also changes concerning organisational, institutional issues, namely that life should not be the same as the honourable Member rightly pointed out that workers who, under their responsibilities, protect citizens from illegal removal of these benefits under their powers, are held liable for legal action. It comes to a certain puriazum, and you have to agree with that. Therefore, both supervisory action and legislative action are as necessary and we will be taking them on an ongoing basis. We serve further information after the query. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u753	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by MEPs Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Robert Telus and Piotr Polak, the Law and Justice Club, on the stage of the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development concerning the announced Pact for rural areas. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, the question is asked by Mr Piotr Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u754	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Widely understood rural development and the good perspective of Polish agriculture are expectations not only of Polish farmers, but of all those who live in rural areas. The Polish government, Prime Minister Morawiecki 2 years ago, seeing the need for a broad concern for the future of Poland, announced in agreement with individual ministers the development and adoption of a plan for responsible development. The Ministry of Agriculture, Minister Krzysztof Jurgel, joined the work on the so-called. a rural pact, which was also announced in the electoral programme of Law and Justice. We know that work on this important document continues at the Ministry all the time. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: At what stage of the study is the rural pact mentioned, and when can we expect its official announcement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u755	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Richard Zarudzki to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u756	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the question about the.Pact for rural areas. The Pact is one of the strategic projects of the Responsible Development Strategy up to 2020, in the medium-term, in the medium-term and with a long-term perspective up to 2030, as is the country's medium-term development strategy. This is the basis for changes in the development management system, in which the strategy for responsible development is the current strategic document, otherwise the country's medium-term development strategy. The Pact is therefore part of a new development management system. The Pact is the main document that implements the updated sustainable development strategy, one of the nine sectoral strategies, here we are talking about rural development, agriculture and fisheries by 2020, and the 2030 perspective, which sets orientations the activities of public institutions active in rural development and agriculture. The rural pact for the period 2017 to 2030 clarifies the projects and tasks that will result from the strategy and will identify their contractors. The Pact is implemented as a document of the nature of the social and political agreement. The Pact is a document integrating system actions, legislative, institutional, programme and investment related to the management of rural areas in a holistic manner. Focuses tasks in one document. This ensures the coherence of the strategic tasks of the government and local government implemented for rural development at different levels - from the commune, through the county, the voivodeship to the government procedure. [[Game in the O.R.]] From the self-government structure...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u757	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: ...through the entire administration. The Pact includes rural development projects, covering challenges and tasks that have not yet been sufficiently addressed in national policies. The Pact therefore responds to the current development policy deficits and includes projects relating to development opportunities in rural areas. The Pact is a manifestation of a departure - and this is quite important - from the development of a country based on a polarised and diffusion model for a sustainable development model in social and territorial terms. The pact is based on design structure, project management, project management. This is similar to the strategy of responsible development... [[If you say so, you understand.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I ask Members to remain calm, really, because I am going to have to announce a break and we are going to have to sit down for a while. [[I'm sorry.]] You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: As far as the pact is concerned, I think it is very well understood by farmers. We talk to them, they communicate very well, and they're happy. I welcome and encourage you to study. I assure you... I think that Parliament's level is that it can be raised by a shelf above so that it can be discussed at a level appropriate to the substantive content that is presented. The Pact, in conjunction with the current rural development and agriculture strategy, can be an important reference to the next edition of programming. It is also part of the European Union's financial programming under both cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. The Pact is a document that also interested the European Commission through its recent contact with Commissioner Hogan, who said: you have an idea for development, you have an idea for developing a strategy for agricultural and rural development, I invite you to work with experts to look for funding opportunities in the new programming period in order to prepare a new perspective, a new financial framework. This invitation draws attention to this possibility when it comes to the longer term perspective, after 2020. The Pact consists of four basic pillars. This part now is for such a very clear understanding. The area, the first pillar, is profitable agricultural production, the second pillar is quality of life and the environment in rural areas, the third pillar is non-agricultural jobs and an active society and the fourth pillar is an active agricultural administration. When I talk to farmers, when I talk to agricultural leaders, when we talk to unions, it's very clear, because there are these elements that are used to make the income higher, so that there is a better quality of life, so that all those elements that create development and give new quality in terms of the development of agriculture and rural areas can be taken into account as part of this progress. With regard to the horizon of the rural pact by 2020, the outlook for 2030 is short. The rural pact [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be adopted by a separate resolution of the Council of Ministers. In addition to the project part, the Pact contains a declaration by the members of the Council of Ministers. For the first time, the whole government is responsible for the development of agriculture and rural areas. About what's going on... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...work on the pact, they focus on the analysis of new, inappropriate... Finish up, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: ...in the project strategy and they will be arranged in accordance with the government's action plan. Finishing the pact... You're welcome to leave, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: ...is closely linked to the work on updating the strategy for sustainable rural development and agriculture, especially as the pact will support the implementation of the strategy. It is assumed that the draft strategy will be presented... Minister, why don't you finish the second question? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: ...at the meeting of the Coordination Committee on the Development policy in December 2017 Thank you. Thank you very much. The Member asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u758	Yes, I am. Thank you, Marshal. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u759	I'm asking you to calm down, really, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u760	Dear colleagues! Yeah, you don't know about farming, but it's worth it... [[What's this? Weed talk.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u761	Everyone, please calm down. It's late, we still have hours ahead of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u762	...information on the prospects and future of Polish agriculture, Mr Nitras, with peace of mind. That's why I'd like to use my second question to ask the Minister... In his speech, the Minister emphasized mainly this immediate perspective, i.e. the short-term one, and for us, residents of the Polish village, it is also important what will happen in the long-term and what government plans are related to this topic. We are a country with high agricultural potential and we want as farmers, as rural people, to know what the government's actions are in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u763	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u764	As I mentioned in the Pact, it has a design procedure and those projects that are being implemented are implemented in the short and long term. An example is the food platform or intermodal freight terminal, which is designed e.g. in the port of Gdansk. This is a certain perspective of specific institutions. As far as the longer term is concerned, it is primarily about the objectives of the common agricultural policy, i.e. climate-related. This is the whole work procedure for farmers not to be affected by what awaits us after 2020. It's about new technologies, it's about transferring knowledge and information, it's about what's going to protect our environment. It's also about nitrate emissions. Long-term action concerns the taking of all work related not only to infrastructure that cannot be built in one or two years, but also to the outlook for climate change, to the UN 2030 Agenda and to those prospects that arise in connection with the new programming period. There are many of these elements, but it is about sustainable development, where, on the one hand, economic-oriented activities taking into account the social dimension and, on the other hand, environmental protection must be linked. These objectives are also made by the Ministry of Agriculture and the commitment is forward-looking - that is, on the part of the Ministry - that farmers should not cover costs, should not be burdened with this new policy related to new technologies, with carbon emissions, with ammonia emissions, with new investments, with methane emissions, with the reduction of production, so that these costs are as low as possible. This is also aimed at the vitality of rural areas, the quality of life, the building of a community - the local community and the search for directional solutions that will enable rural life to be comparable to urban life or better and create conditions for sustainable development. After all, rural areas in our country are 94% its area, so this is actually the space that we all live in. And that's responsibility. not only directly, the Ministry of Agriculture, but also the entire government and society. We must be aware of this and the idea for development. The protection of these interests on the part of the Ministry is ensured and this is a guarantee that it will be well implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u765	Thank you very much. That concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the current relations between Poland and its immediate neighbours and the policy of the Polish government towards our neighbours will be discussed, with particular attention being paid to Ukraine, Germany, Lithuania, Belarus, in the context of recent decisions and statements by representatives of the Polish government, which was presented by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, representatives of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers may be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u766	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to start with one statement that makes me personally upset, and, in fact, every one of us, regardless of the differences between us in this room, should be upset. It's an hour. 23 almost. I believe that such an important debate should not take place at this hour. This is a fundamental issue - we are talking about Poland's relations with the closest neighbours, which are crucial for us. And it is not a coincidence, and it must be said from this speaker that in a manner totally conscious of Marshal Kuchciński, with the help of his two closest colleagues, Mr Brudziński and Mr Terletki, so organizes the work of the Sejm so that we can speak on these important topics at night. And we should be concerned about the second reason, which I will mention in this speech, because this debate is a hand drawn from opposition to the government. Yeah, hand out to the government. And I regret that the government, with all due respect to the Minister, is represented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, because I believe that there should be a Prime Minister here today, not even the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but the Prime Minister, because in our relations with our nearest neighbours things have become very, very bad in recent months, things, things that, for our own fault, reverse us in our relations with our nearest neighbours over the years back. Why do I say that this debate is an opportunity and that it is a hand drawn out by the opposition to the rulers? Because we are not debating this debate, otherwise, today our goal in this debate is not to show that your foreign policy is wrong. We would like you to use this debate so that the Prime Minister can use this debate to say that these recent events were incidental and unintentional, that all that happened was a coincidence, not a conscious policy. So sometimes in life, someone will say the word too much, it spins a spiral of emotions and in turn meets the reaction on the other hand, it meets the reaction again and in this way something that was simple becomes difficult. Words in diplomacy have great power in politics. One gesture, someone will kneel - we know such gestures from history, they can reverse the course of events. But evil words also have great power and can destroy the achievements of generations and generations in relations between nations. We have a huge accomplishment today, because if someone looked - who could believe in the 1990s, for example, or in the 1980s, is it even better that Germany, our historic enemy, will be our greatest ambassador in the European Union, that Germany will be the greatest ambassador for our accession to the Union? If anyone remembers the debates from the 1990s, Poland was not so widely welcomed in the Union, Polish receptions were feared. The Germans were our biggest attorney. And we managed to do a great thing, because just like the Germans were the greatest ambassador or attorney of Poland, so we managed to lead to such a situation that a few years ago in all, absolutely all polls made in Ukraine were pointed to Poland as a country which is Ukraine's greatest friend. Someone who thought of it ten years ago would have said impossible. Yeah, it is. And who did it? Us, Poles. Not the platform, Poles. With our wise policy, our responsible policy, we have led to a situation of historical reconciliation with Germany and that we have become Ukraine's greatest ambassador in Europe, that we have dragged Ukraine into Europe, that not us, but the Ukrainians have seen us as our greatest friend. This enabled us to take care of memorial sites in Ukraine. Someone who remembers - I hope the Minister remembers - what Orląt's cemetery looked like a few years ago actually, well, maybe 10 years ago, or what memorial sites like Kharkov looked like, which Ukraine didn't talk about at all... [[And the bullfighter.]] And the bullfighter, yes. These are facts, that's what we do together. And you're throwing it all away. I'm from Szczecin. If the German Foreign Minister had come to Szczecin with a two-day visit, if only he had met with representatives of minorities, if he had told Poles under which monuments they were entitled to lay flowers, and he had not met with any representatives of the Ukrainian government - because you had met, you will immediately say, with a Member of the opposition who is contesting the policy of the government in Kiev - we would have been against, we would have joined you, I would have been the first to say that this is a scandal. But you're doing it. The Minister was accompanied by Mrs Mazurek on a 2-day visit to Lviv. You haven't met anyone from the Kiev government. You met with the mer, with one messenger, you laid flowers and told the Ukrainians where they were going. They can lay flowers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We urge you to use this debate to say: it was an incident, an incident - I have not mentioned many, because it is not a matter of mentioning - and they tell you what direction you want with Germany, what relations you want with Ukraine. You should say, Minister, from this pulpit...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u767	Get close to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u768	Your Marshal, last sentence. You should say from this speaker: we will continue the policy of reconciliation with Germany, the policy of reconciliation with Europe. Central and Eastern Europe has a great role to play in this policy too, but only together with our partners, continuing the achievements of our predecessors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u769	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Bartosz Cichocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u770	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for Mr Nitras' questions. As regards my absence or my presence and the absence of others, I draw your attention to today's Foreign Policy Forum, where a comprehensive presentation of politics was given by Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Witold Waszczykowski on foreign policy objectives. [[The Seym is more important.]] So that the government at the highest level, when possible, gives extensive explanations about our intentions, our assessments. I thank the Member for noting that the foreign policy of the government is not bad. When it comes to the importance of words, words are important, while decisions, including those of our neighbours, which we need to interpret and to which we need to respond, are of the utmost importance. I have the impression that the Member is trying to impose a reversal on tactical things, current things and strategic issues. As far as this strategic dimension is concerned, Poland considers relations with Germany as allies, as one of the most important both regionally and within the European Union, in NATO. Together, we have done so as to give just a few examples, a very hard and successful work on preparing for the Eastern Partnership Summit. Without Germany's participation, a new element would not be possible which would give a completely different impetus to the Eastern Partnership, in the form of transport, energy and digital projects linking the European Union with the Eastern Partnership countries. In NATO, we have jointly obtained that today, in our region's countries, including Poland, they are stationed in common bases of NATO units, proving to Russia that the language of aggression, the language of blackmail and the violation of fundamental principles are not found and will not find acceptance on our side. I'm going back to the words. Words are important, but when we meet with the decisions of our partners, even our allies, which do not fit within the framework of alliance relations, partnerships... [[Like what?]] ...or neighborly relations, such as an incomprehensible decision, a shocking decision of Ukrainian officials to ban the search and exhumation of remains of Polish victims of wars and conflicts in Ukraine, such as statements by the president of Windrowicz, the head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance. There was a note in the hall about the cemetery in Bykrownia. Well, President Windrowych considers this cemetery to be illegal in public statements. We must therefore ask and ask the Ukrainian side how we are to understand this. We are in constructive contact at various levels, including the highest, presidential level, and we are trying to explain this. Prime Minister Gliński, Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński was on 23 October at a consultation in Kiev, where he proposed a mechanism talks at a higher level than before, at the level of the Deputy Prime Minister, ministers responsible for culture, where we could explain these issues of commemoration, exploration, restitution of cultural goods, protection of cultural goods without prejudging what should be the content of commemorations, what should they look like, how exhumations be carried out in such an operational dimension. This constructive proposal was refused. This does not burden the foreign policy of the Polish government, it places a political burden on the Ukrainian state, which makes decisions today - decisions and not just words - which put a strategic partnership declaration into question. You recalled the impression you had on the Łyczakowski Cemetery 5 and 10 years ago. Well, at that time, these two spirits of the guilty lions were in some sort of psychic dict, and they are still there. [[But they're not.]] They're still sitting. I know, I was there last weekend, and I saw those crates myself. [[No, it's already open.]] No, sir, please check your information. I saw it with my own eyes. Minister Waszczykowski in no way... I am not familiar with such a statement, where it would indicate where the Ukrainians are to lay wreaths and where they are not. [[Who did he meet in Lviv?]] During this weekend's stay in Lviv, the Polish delegation headed by Minister Waszczykowski submitted flowers, paid tribute to the Lviv Orlites and Ukrainian soldiers fighting for Lviv in 1918 and at the cemetery of soldiers who died in the ATO zone. Especially touching was the moment of the conversation between Minister Waszczykowski and Polish Boy Scout, Lvivian, citizen of Ukraine, veteran of fighting on the front line in the east of Ukraine, Ukrainian patriot of Polish origin in the uniform of Polish Boy Scout. There were no elements of imposition, dictation, ultimatum language. To answer the question of whom we met, I speak plural because I was a participant in this delegation: the visit was notified to the Ukrainian party and it was the Ukrainian party who chose the level of representation of the central authorities. The main purpose of this visit was to talk with leaders, with leaders of Polish environments in Ukraine. Minister Waszczykowski, Mrs Mazurek and Senator Sagatowska were interested in the state of cooperation in the field of culture, sport and education. The scout environments were also represented. The meeting that lasted over an hour was very interesting, it was in a very good climate, it had many constructive elements, but for example. when it comes to education reform in Ukraine, there were many question marks and many concerns from Poles. It is the responsibility of the Foreign Ministry, the Foreign Ministry, to be in contact with these environments. The second main element of this visit was the conversation with Polish consuls in Ukraine. We spend over one million visas a year in Ukraine, over 600,000. visas enabling work, cards of a Pole. These are huge burdens under conditions of reduced level of security, reduced working comfort, as evidenced by cases of attacks or other incidents against Polish diplomatic and consular posts. It is the responsibility of the Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be in close contact with consular staff. Minister Waszczykowski, I assure you, is in regular contact with his counterpart. About once a month he meets with Minister Klimkin on the occasion of various multilateral formats, and we maintain this direct contact. So that there is no contact deficit at the highest and high levels. On the other hand, there is a deficit on the Ukrainian side of decisions conducive to progress on certain bilateral issues, generally referred to as historical dialogue. These issues have been known to the Ukrainian side for years, they have not appeared during this term of office of the Sejm. It is a question of using the language of Soviet times in speaking about the Polish occupation, it is a question of ownership [[♪ The bell ♪]] the Roman Catholic Church, this is a matter of unreflective rehabilitation or glorification of UPA and settlement, or, in fact, the failure to settle the Katyn crime. These are also decisions of the Ukrainian side which reverse our bilateral relations, aimed at the image, in the good name of Poland. It goes on for example. about the false commemoration at the Werecka Pass opened with the participation of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Ukrainian Government, with the participation of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u771	You're very close to the punch line, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Bartosz Cichocki: ...a company of honorary forces of Ukraine accusing us of mass murder in 1939. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Jerzy Gosiewiski, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] Oh, here he comes. I'm sorry, sir. I haven't seen your envoy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u772	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In the area of Warmia and Mazury the total opposition excites the social moods against, in my opinion, the Polish state's right and says that stopping the local border traffic is a great tragedy for our region. Every Polish politician should, in my opinion, be primarily responsible for the safety of the Republic of Poland and its citizens. From the information that every parliamentarian can obtain, it also appears that stopping the local border traffic does not have a major impact on the number of people crossing the Russian border and on the expenditure incurred in Poland by Russians crossing the border with the Kaliningrad region. The expenditure of Poles in the Russian Federation has decreased, but this only concerned excise goods, which consequently contributed to the increase in the acquisition of goods in our country. Indeed, there has been a decrease in the illegal activity of smuggling alcohol, fuel and cigarettes. The number of administrative and fiscal cases related to this operation has also decreased. The region of Warmia and Mazury borders Russia, which is why we, the people of this region, would like to see relations with our neighbour very well. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What can we expect from Russia in bilateral relations? How would we like them to evolve in the near future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u773	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u774	Minister! I listened attentively to everything you said to us, and I was a little out of courage in this speech. I understand your role, I know you're not a decision-maker, and it's really hard for me to blame you. But I will articulate my rations as if I were speaking to the Constitutional Minister or as if I were speaking to the Prime Minister because in this capacity you represent them. You don't have the guts. I mean, you've got a lot of guts to be so grumpy, and you've got a lot of guts to face up to the challenges, which is what makes people communicate. You say it's just words. You know, if I wanted to exchange all those bad words, those misdemeanors that you've made to our neighbours from the West and the East in the last two years, I'm running out of time. And you don't have the courage to formulate goals. You spoke so easily of these lions. It's a policy of cooperation, sometimes difficult. You probably remember President Kaczyński, who faced a much worse situation than the cover-up of a lion, i.e. before the Ukrainian party's behaviour, actually the Bando Resolution in a certain process. But President Kaczyński was responsible - because it was the policy of all governments and all presidents - to rise above divisions because he knew what was important. If we had spoken the language you offered us here today, the Orląt cemetery would have looked like it used to be, there would have been no breakthrough. Because such changes are made by wisdom, by understanding the other side. You say that such a format of visit or cooperation during the visit to Lviv was chosen by the Ukrainian party. You're a diplomat and you don't understand what that means? If the minister's going, and there's a low-ranking official, and there's no minister, that's proof that we don't want a visit like this, and you're going. Easy for you, you have great courage in making such bad, provocative gestures, and you will find partners for such a policy on the other side, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it's an art to find partners to work with. To find partners to work with on the other hand...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u775	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u776	...first of all, you have to be a partner to cooperate. You have to want this cooperation and initiate it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u777	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u778	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say, Minister, of course, respecting the presence of the Minister here, that, however, in such an important matter when it comes to relations with our closest neighbours, on the other hand, the most important for many reasons, the fact that there is no Minister Waszczykowski, but, I would say, a considerable oversight from the Minister, although it must also be admitted that the Minister has accustomed us to the fact that where he should be, he is not there, and where he should not be, he is unfortunately there. That's diplomacy lately. Minister, Belarus - I will start with the good ones, in quotes, things - is the only country with which we have a better relationship than before. Unfortunately, the price is quite high, PiS agreed that this price should not raise the issue of human rights, including the rights of the Polish minority in Belarus, and the democratisation of the political system. In return, we haven't gained anything so far. If that's a plus, that's one plus, so be it. But then there's nothing but failure. So far Germany has been our most important partner, for the PiS have become a hit boy. Anti-German phobias make themselves known every step of the way, every opportunity. Reparations of war, the issue of refugees, the rule of law procedure in the European Union - we have probably the worst relationship after 1989. The Weimar Triangle practically does not work, and recently foreign policy towards Germany began to be led by the Minister of War Mr Macierewicz. That doesn't bode well for our contacts. Lithuania - this relationship has never been our strong suit, it can be said that it is traditionally weak relations, but in the context of Lithuania it is important that our relations with the Baltic States have deteriorated significantly. Minister, another area where it's worse than it was. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Relations with Ukraine. This is where the words came from...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u779	You're very close to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u780	...it was hard not to notice them. We see anti-Ukrainian phobias, it's not responsible. It's getting worse again. And finally, it's not on the subject... Your marshal, literally two sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u781	No, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u782	Visegrad Group - absolute deterioration of moods. Minister, have you changed the vectors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u783	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki. There's no envoy. Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u784	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of an ongoing attack by Members of the opposition is to rationalise the policy in the area of our relations with our largest Western neighbour, Germany. An example of this was Mr Suchon's speech. The elements of this attack are accusations directed against the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in Berlin and the weakening of the position of the Polish ambassador in Berlin. Still... [[Mr President, I haven't even said a word about the embassy.]] You spoke about how we have sunk relations with the Germans. If you don't mind, I'll tell you about it and ask you what the results of the Polish facility in Berlin are. I would like to say that despite these attacks, the embassy is making a number of progress in areas that have been neglected so far. Therefore, my questions to the Minister: What progress can we have in the construction of the monument to the Polish victims of Nazi terror in Berlin in the near future? The case has been expected for years. What progress has been made on the renovation of the Polish House in Bochum? And finally, after years of waiting is the prospect of building the Polish embassy, its headquarters from the real event, right next to the Brandenburg Gate? Because it was a shame in the past years in foreign policy led by the governments of PO-PSL. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u785	You're welcome. In the mode of correcting, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u786	Thank you very much. Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u787	Dry, yes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u788	Your marshal, only two sentences. Mr President, you misunderstood me. I didn't say a word about the embassy in Berlin. I only said - only or until - that our relations with Germany are the worst after 1989, and the state for games, for internal use, you use Germans as boys to beat in everything you can. And that's a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u789	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Grunkled, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u790	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There isn't much time, so I'm gonna go straight to the essence of things, which is our relationship with the Germans, which the Minister thought was ally. I understand that our only strategic partner today is the Berlin embassy that my previous speaker mentioned. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] I wanted to ask you what happened to jeopardize our good relations with the Germans that other countries have been jealous of us so far. And concrete. First of all, first of all, a request for reparation, very questionable from a legal point of view. Admit that this is a substitute subject, in retaliation for paying attention to the violation of the rule of law in Poland. Please note that these claims appeared at the very moment when the European Commission launched a mechanism for detecting infringements of Community law by the Polish Government. By the way, is it true that BAS classified one of the reparations expertises by Professor Caesar Mike? [[Yes, sir.]] Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs know this opinion and what is its position on this issue? If you really want something from the Germans and not just strengthen your own electorate, then why not use the instrument, which is the Polish-German round table? This is a level of dialogue and agreement. The question is whether or not you're giving up on purpose. The last compromise was linked to the call to the military attaché rug, because Minister Macierewicz misunderstood the statement of the German Minister of Defence. The reaction was allergic, all you had to do was listen to the whole statement. Defence cooperation is really very good and it doesn't have to be ruined. And worst of all, you ignore the voice of bishops who remind us of the values of reconciliation, referring to the letter of 1965. Our mutual relations are difficult, but the effort of many people led to a situation in which Germany was the hot advocate of Poland's entry into NATO and the Union, and today they are our most important economic and commercial partner. Don't waste this work. What kind of partner do you have to talk to? What kind of party do you guys have in common across the western border? Because after the September elections you praise Alternative für Deutschland, who wants to remove Angela Merkel, and this is the most pro-Polish chancellor since the end of World War II. Stupid or complex? Is that the policy of getting out of your knees? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You send TW Wolfgang to Berlin, who in the first months managed to sign up for personae non gratae. I appeal: do not destroy our relations and the reconciliation process, because it is not worth it, but it is worth being decent, especially in foreign policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u791	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u792	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We should all have the best interests of our children. Hence my question of a very serious problem - the problem of parental abductions, a situation in which one parent or guardians without knowledge and against the will of another one takes the child away or stops the child and deprives him of contact with the child. It gets complicated when a minor is transported abroad, e.g. to neighbouring Germany, which happens quite often. Similar situations are becoming more and more common. With such problems to Members, including me, my office, parents whose children have been abducted and exported abroad are turning to me. Hence, Minister, my question: What measures are being taken by diplomatic agencies to help Polish citizens in such difficult situations? Question two: Are the employees of these institutions sufficiently prepared to represent the interests of Poles? Do they have appropriate training? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u793	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u794	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a little in trouble about the topic of today, because we are to talk about how Poland conducts foreign policy, and I have an expression that it is the other way around that Poland does not lead foreign policy towards its neighbours. Well, what do you call - let's start one at a time - leading a foreign policy towards Russia? We're talking about closed trade by closing the deal here. Lithuania. You wanted the Polish passports to include the Sharp Gate. It's like Szczecin appeared in German passports. We'd have reasonable doubt if something like that were in them, wouldn't we? And yet it is in the official project of Minister Błaszczak. Belarus. Lukashenko is a warm man. I'll leave that without comment, I think it's an interesting thought for you, too. Ukraine. A lot of words have already been said here. Lack of ability to move difficult topics, but also just lies. Let us remember Minister Macierewicz, about the Polish-Ukrainian helicopter. All this stuff stays. I remember that when Prime Minister Kopacz and I were in Byknów, we were able to lay flowers on the graves of Poles together with Prime Minister Jaceniuk. It was a visible sign of agreement. Slovakia. The Foreign Minister says that he does not intend to stand by Poland, which is breaking up the European Union. Czech Republic. Czech Minister for European Affairs Tomáš Prouza says, quote: Poland is alone, I as Czech Republic regret it. I was surprised that the Polish Prime Minister decided to attack the President of France directly. In the European Union, it is sometimes necessary to push each other around, but it is necessary to talk to each other, and Prime Minister Szydło made such a statement very difficult. And finally Germany. Polish-German reconciliation is, in my opinion, and in many historians' opinion, more valuable even than the Polish-French reconciliation. [[German-French.]] This is something that was very special, which should be nurtured and which should be the basis for security in this part of Europe. Mr Macierewicz's fools... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u795	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u796	Mr Macierewicz's fools recently cast the embassy in Berlin - these are just some of the many elements that testify to our deteriorating relations with Germany, our closest ally in both economic and military terms. Anyone who's been in the government knows the contingency plans, knows how important an ally...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u797	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u798	...the Germans are here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u799	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Please, Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u800	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Getting up from your knees, as you describe your historic and often hysterical foreign and neighbouring policies, cannot mean building an enemy image, multiplying enemies where they are not, where friends and partners are. Assertivity - yes, anti-Germanity, anti-Ukrainianity - no. Turns out the only neighbor we have no conflict with today whether the points of dispute are Belarus, where you feel so good. It's Belarus - a country ruled by President Lukashenka, where the opposition doesn't mind because he's in prison. The Visegrad Group no longer speaks with one voice. There is virtually no Weimar Triangle under your rule. [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: What about under yours?]] You don't have translators in ministries who could tell Minister Macierewicz that someone speaks highly of Poland. Every speech about democracy, the rule of law and Poland causes an allergic reaction because you have an impure conscience. Instead of exposing what's in common, pursuing real policies in proven formats, you hystericalize, taking into account the needs of one man, your president. And if there are so many problems, as you say, isn't it worth returning to proven formats and working groups for difficult matters? Once there was a Polish-Russian group, it may be necessary to create a new, Polish-Ukrainian group, to give solutions to disputes concerning interpretation of history and historical figures to professors and historians. It would be a kind of a thunderbolt. Unfortunately, this will not replace the strategic thinking you need in your dealings with your neighbours, and in the context of disassembling the Polish diplomatic service and the intention to degrade diplomats will unfortunately be even more difficult. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u801	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u802	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to start by reminding you of the words that he made in August 2008... [[2008]] ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ President Lech Kaczyński at the Tbilisi rally: We know very well that today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the day after tomorrow of the Baltic States, and then maybe it is time for my country, for Poland. Today's events in Ukraine show how important and relevant these words were. The annexation of Crimea, the formation of separatist folk republics in Donetsk and Lugansk, events in Kiev which have taken place recently, among others. the assassination of Ihora Mosijczuk, the shooting of a doctor and volunteer of Chechen origin of Amina Okakova, all this shows how the situation in Ukraine is destabilized, and yet Ukraine is our neighbour and it is no wonder that what is happening there can affect the situation also in our country and can cause some anxiety. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister what are the prospects of security stabilisation in Ukraine and what Poland's involvement in stabilisation activities looks like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u803	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u804	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the hierarchs of the Church recently said more or less that as a state we have the aspirations of the power, and we behave at the level of the Chief. The language used by top state officials, diplomats, is not the language of cooperation and dialogue. Only dialogue can solve our common problems, often very painful, as in the case of historical relations with Ukraine. An aggressive foreign policy towards our eastern neighbours, as history has shown, does not lead to anything good. The dispute in Polish-Ukrainian relations is burdened by a million Ukrainians working here, who fear its consequences. In the case of Germany and recent statements, the anti-German hysteria of the government has been confirmed since 2015. You want to gain points in internal politics, and outside we can lose a lot: what has been developed in economic, military and other relations. We are counting on a statement from the state authorities, a statement from the Prime Minister at the level of the European dialogue on this matter. We'll see about that. Time will show. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u805	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u806	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You underestimate, Minister, how much damage our relations with Ukraine can do to an irresponsible, unprofessional policy, which is based on historical conflicts and a different assessment of these conflicts, but which can also affect the future. Let's take a few examples. Does anyone publicly insist that he should employ other people in his own government? If you want to make a change, if you don't like it there, you say it in private, even so that your closest colleagues don't hear it, but we just make it harder to make changes, even if you want to make it that way. Personal sanctions that are announced against the Ukrainians. I don't know, maybe you'll answer if Mr. Wiatrowicz has those sanctions or not, but I wanted to say that Mr. Wiatrowicz has sanctions from the Kremlin. [[He's on the list.]] So we're in the same position as the Kremlin. The Kremlin doesn't let him into Russia anymore, and now we won't let him into Poland. What will the historical dialogue with this difficult partner look like? I agree, but he's on the historical committee whose work was resumed two years ago and who's supposed to investigate all these cases. And we're now declaring personal sanctions. It will only strengthen it and only make it more difficult to dialogue and make some changes. It's a monument case. Well, on Łyczak there is a magnificent monument of Lviv Orląt, which is not very pleasant for Ukrainians. Even if these lions are still covered, the magnificent monument stands. There are plaques that President Kwasniewski unveiled, common plaques dedicated to the Lviv Orlites and the Sichów Rifles. At our place - one memorial of UPA soldiers in the graveyard in Hruszowice, broken by local authorities. How did the ministry react? 23 years there was this monument. What was the reaction of power? Well, with an excuse that we can actually do it, because it's not known whether that monument was legal or illegal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The issue of trade liberalisation. Why does it turn out that Poland is in the European Union, which wanted to liberalize agricultural trade with Ukraine, the largest brake on trade liberalisation? The Ukrainians case in Poland. The bureaucratic barriers that multiply here are not easy to hire. Just those barriers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u807	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u808	In fact, I believe that this policy really will not improve relations, but it can only lead to their deterioration and make us some older brother, just as Russia is perceived by the Ukrainians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u809	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u810	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start by asking the Minister. What policy does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to pursue in relation to Ukraine in the light of recent events and, in the light of, can we say, the failure of our foreign policy over many, many years? And now for a little while. In politics there were actually two stereotypes, two dogmas. The first stems from the promethean concept in the context of the words of Marshal Piłsudski that there will be no free Poland without free Ukraine. We therefore felt that Ukraine should be supported at any cost. We thought we were fighting in Donbass to defend our values. We turned a blind eye to the glorification of Ukrainian criminals, comparing the Home Army to UAN, etc., etc. The Minister knows exactly what I'm talking about. The second dogma was, like, the opposite, the extreme. He was referring to the fact that until we sort things out, i.e. Until the Ukrainians apologize to us for the Volyn crime, until they consider it genocide, we actually have nothing to talk about and no reason to talk to them about. This second dogma is unacceptable because it is contrary to our state, and also because there are 2 million Ukrainians in Poland. The first dogma didn't work either. I think that there is a need for a new foreign policy that will meet the challenges and will, as my fellow Members have said here, be courageous and effective. I would like to comment briefly on the statements of one of my fellow Members, who, by arguing on the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with Ukraine, said that the Ukrainian side does not have a partner in us. I have a completely different impression that actually our Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have a partner in the Ukrainian Ministry, that there are actually oligarchs there, and the best proof of that is that the historical discussion, which for us is fundamental when it comes to establishing relations with Ukraine, can be said, Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs [[♪ The bell ♪]] pushed the Ukrainian IPN, which simply discusses how it discusses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u811	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u812	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the Minister, it might seem that these relations, relations, attitudes of the Polish authorities are very friendly, very encouraging to cooperate. In the meantime, reality is diametrically different. Minister, of course you will never admit it, because you are a subordinate, but our foreign minister moves like an elephant in a porcelain warehouse. Wherever he goes, he's gonna break something. Of course you can't tell the Minister that you didn't go to Ukraine if they don't want him there. Of course, he could take a private trip this weekend, but not as a minister, because as a minister he should respect himself and of course he should meet with the competent authorities. If there are already such difficult situations, such as the issue of this memorial or the issue of prohibition of exhumation, search in Ukraine, I must say that it is precisely at the level of the Ukrainian president who proposed a meeting within the Consultative Committee of the Presidents of the Republic of Poland and Ukraine, because it is this diplomatic road when trying to solve problems, talk and not announce to the whole world that firstly, we will not allow some people to enter Poland. Perhaps the Ministry with Minister Waszczykowski - looks like he is also trying to carry out the message of Mr Kaczyński, who said that we would be an island of happiness in Europe, surrounded from all sides by enemies. That's a wrong attitude. When it comes to relations with Ukraine, we have a lot of Ukrainians working, we want them to work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do they feel when we behave in this way towards Ukraine? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u813	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u814	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! March 20th this year The presidents of Belarus and Poland exchanged minutes on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of establishing relations between Poland and Belarus. I would like to remind you that on 23 June 1992 a treaty on good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation took place between Poland and Belarus. For 25 years, this cooperation was characterised by different periods, periods of warming and cooling. It seems that there has been a new opening between countries for two years. Visits took place, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland was in Belarus and then there was a revisit in Warsaw, and you were also a marshal, and in Minsk you visited. And now I have two questions: Did Poland and the European Union's policy towards Belarus and President Lukashenka pass the exam in previous years? How does the current government want to build relations with Minsk, and what do we have to offer Belarus, what are our main objectives in relations with Belarus? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u815	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u816	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Parliamentaries of Law and Justice! You love to talk about dignity, you love to talk about national pride, you say very often that we get off our knees. But you do not understand that the measure of foreign policy assessment is not an attitude, whether straightened out or not, but facts - facts that translate into constructive problem solving, common interests, nurturing achievements, building trust and continuous work on good relationships, building good relationships. Instead of building bridges and flooding ditches, strengthening the space for dialogue, understanding and cooperation, your foreign policy has become a hostage to domestic policy, such an internal one, for its own use, which has led Poland in the international environment to become, above all, weak, isolated and has fewer and fewer allies, and we have lost strategic partners long ago. The language of your diplomacy most often insults and discourages cooperation. Poland's PiS is assessed as a partner, first, unbelievable, second, selfish, third, Eurosceptic and fourth and most important, increasingly unpredictable. You make a lot of mistakes, it's a mistake for a mistake. You treat integration with the European Union as a threat, not an opportunity for development. Under the pretence of strengthening the subjectivity, you conflict with Germany, France, Lithuania, Ukraine, because there are only diplomatic tensions, and instead of cooperation within the Weimar Triangle, you have a vision of the Intermarine Union and engage in cooperation with the Visegrad Group, which is getting weaker. On your own request, you place yourselves on the margins of Europe. You are cutting yourself off from the head of the European Council - fortunately this ended 27 to 1. Mr Kaczyński said: If we stay alone in Europe, we will stay. And that's how you get off your knees, getting more and more lonely, [[♪ The bell ♪]] more and more insulted at everyone. You're fighting with everyone. Only war with everyone will be a losing war. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u817	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform. Mr Rozonca isn't here. Are you Mr Rzonec? There isn't. Please, Mr Rafał Grupiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u818	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the 1980s, we published translations of the most outstanding poet of the Ukrainian Vasyl Stus, who died in the Lagoon in 1985, and was imprisoned many times, while at the same time publishing historical texts about difficult chapters in the Polish-Ukrainian past, among others. also about the fight for the Lions after World War I. To tell you the truth, we were already thinking in the democratic opposition's environments about how to make relations with Ukraine, difficult relations, and also with Germany when we regain sovereignty, because we were optimistic at the time. After 25 years of actually building an eastern policy, but also a policy, as far as the European Union is concerned, which is already effective and, above all, which is what Jerzy Giedroyc said, which is implementing the Giedroyc doctrine of establishing good relations with the independent states of the former post-Soviet empire, we suddenly find ourselves in a strange resett. It started with unhappy speeches, it started with continuing the wrong one and, I would say, rather reluctant German politics still sleep. Lech Kaczyński, who, however, implemented Eastern policy very wisely. And you have now also joined the Eastern policy that is unreasonable, contrary to Polish interests, subject to historical emotions, subject to strange, current also, thunder on business not only... I mean, on emotions above all, [[♪ The bell ♪]] maybe, internal emotions mainly connected with primitive nationalism that is spreading in Poland today. And the question is In fact, Minister, just one thing: Is it just a question of inability, error policy and simply a fatal selection of people or reset? But do you want to destroy our relations with the European Union and with partners in the East, such as Ukraine, and get along with Moscow, under its dictatorship or not? Because abandoning Giedroyt's doctrine is unfortunately...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u819	You're very close to the punch line.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u820	...to surrender to the Russian Empire. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u821	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u822	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning of his term of office, the Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke about three crises that will be faced by the Polish state: the security crisis, the neighbourhood crisis and the crisis of the European project. This was a complex and unfavorable situation for Polish politics. Now I dare say that these three difficult issues have found some positive solutions, especially the issue of our security. We do not have a full response to the European project yet, because it is a matter that must find a solution at the table, to which many countries must sit. As for the neighbourhood policy, the Polish country is pursuing a very sustainable policy, facing many challenges coming from either Ukraine or Lithuania. No one hides the problems that Poland is facing. Foreign policies have been restored subjectivity, with superior vision, priority, state security. That's what was clearly missing before. [[You have to be blind to say that.]] Minister, the speech of US President Donald Trump of July 2017 was a clear indication that we are expected to strengthen our position in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. Don't you think, Minister, that we need a calm, balanced policy in our dealings with our neighbours, a policy covering up conflicts, not a burning one? All in order to achieve this position and keep it for the safety of our homeland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u823	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u824	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Diplomacy and foreign policy, historical policy according to the Minister should be based on truth, so let's tell the truth. Why, Minister, by warming our relations with Belarus, when we speak of a warm man, are we forgetting the place that the Kuropatys were? We forget to ask for a place where the victims of the Bolshevik purges, the Polish victims of the Bolshevik purges, lie. Somehow the Minister does not show great courage, and the Member said: courage, Minister. The Minister talks about stopping the exhumation, stopping it, and here I demand the truth, after uttering a long-term discussion about it and the efforts of real diplomats, so that we can conduct research in Kharkiv. These studies were conducted a few weeks ago, exhumed and researched. The statements of reckless, reckless, not courageous politicians caused this research and these exhumations to be stopped. So the courage, Minister, to talk about such studies and such diplomacy, not to talk about a kind and warm man from Belarus... [[Dictator.]] ...so that you may be able to diplomacy so that we can begin such research in the Kuropaty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u825	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u826	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I remember eight years of government of the Civic Platform in Parliament. I remember the answers to my statements, to my letters about a certain lack of power in solving various issues, especially cases with the eastern neighbours, even though one of these neighbours is in the European Union, the other is Russia, the other is Belarus, another Ukraine. I wanted to mention a few things and therefore ask questions. First of all, I'm talking about the spelling of names that couldn't be done. Turns out the case is starting to be solved. Also the issue of the return of property, which is much more difficult, the negligence of previous governments in this area is much more difficult... Overcoming these backlogs is much harder to achieve. The issue of schools, especially schools in Lithuania. There was reform, the issue of liquidation of many Polish classes, many schools faced practical liquidation. I'm talking about these two issues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the issue of schools and the issue of the return of real estate, which were wronged or taken away from Polish citizens mainly in those countries where Poland was in 1939. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u827	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u828	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the government's policy towards Russia. What are the measures taken by the government to prevent security threats from Russia? How does the government intend to influence the policy of the European Union and our NATO allies towards Russia? Will our allies and the European Union's positions on sanctions remain unchanged? One more question. What are our possibilities for further influence on the construction of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u829	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u830	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! November 5th this year In Germany, the German association of journalists held its programme convention, where it adopted a resolution on the lack of freedom of media in Eastern European countries, including Poland. Poland was presented as a country in which fundamental human rights are violated, including the right to freedom of the press and freedom of expression. The thesis there was also about the fact that journalists are fired from work in Poland. Such false information is circulating in the German press. [[What do you mean, no? You're kicking out of Three all the time...]] Thanks to such rhetoric, German journalists think that we are being violated or that the principles of freedom and democracy are not respected. [[Of course.]] Forming such opinions, exporting such a twisted and false image of Poland in Germany is, to say very gently, an abuse and simply a lie. The SDP Press Freedom Monitoring Centre called for media organisations and institutions in Germany, strongly opposed to such a harmful and false image of Poland. My question is: Has the government taken or will it take action against breaking the principle of journalistic integrity, but in Germany? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And how many people in Radio Three have you thrown out, even recently? I can count it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u831	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Kaleta. There's no envoy. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u832	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The current situation in Central and Eastern Europe, the post-1989 post-Jalta order, has its opponents as well as supporters. Russia is opposed to this new order, while Poles are supported by Poland, Lithuania and Ukraine. What, therefore, does our countries share in terms of cooperation? Well, they don't share their interests, because we share their interests, but they share their pasts. The past and its interpretation. The past of a long time, reaching this old Polish Republic of the Both Nations, but above all the history of the 20th century, when our neighbours and former relatives living in the times of the First Republic went to cooperation with totalitarianism, first of all with German totalitarianism. This, of course, needs to be explained, what I am appealing to the Ministry for, at the same time asking: Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any schedule for the work of the teams, both the Polish-Ukrainian team and the Polish-Lithuanian team, composed of historians who would scientifically debate the problems of interpretation of phenomena occurring in Central and Eastern Europe mainly in the 20th century? In my view, not so much without reconciliation, but without a factual basis, without an interpretation of these facts, as well as assessments will not be effective for any foreign policy regardless of anyone, any camp would exercise authority. We do not instruct the Ukrainians or Lithuanians to show them where they belong in the event of crises, but such teams are really necessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u833	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u834	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking a lot about Polish-Ukrainian relations, and the Member also spoke about it. I'll continue. The issue of commemoration seems to be extremely problematic in these relations. IPN of Ukraine stated that due to the lack of reaction of the Polish party to the destruction of Ukrainian memorial sites located on our territory, it halts the legalization of Polish commemorations in Ukraine. But not only - he also banned search work on our fellow countrymen and does not give up despite efforts by the Polish IPN. The problem is that according to previous information of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Walk and Martyrdom, these commemorations were erected in Poland - in general, although not everywhere - without any legal provisions in force in Poland, without informing the relevant authorities. They are often not located in resting places, and often contain elements glorifying UPA. A different opinion is represented, among others. The Ukrainian Union in Poland. [[Is there an example?]] That's the way it is. with the monument already mentioned today in Hruszowice, which was repeatedly devastated. So we have a situation when the destruction of the illegal from the point of view of the Polish law of commemoration becomes a pretext for stopping the chance for us to find the remains of our compatriots or for their worthy burial. Therefore, I have a question: Have we reviewed all Ukrainian commemorations in Poland in terms of legality, especially in terms of confirmation of possible burial or the presence of human remains or denial of this? It seems that even though it will probably take a long time, it is worth doing so just to sort this out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And calm the relationship. As to continuing this, I have a question: Does Poland have other ideas for calming the moods on both sides? What are the ideas? Is there even a chance in the Minister's opinion of this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u835	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u836	How long?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u837	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u838	How much?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u839	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u840	Thank you, Marshal. I listened very carefully to this debate, although I will admit that some voices were difficult to endure. Honestly, I'm worried about one thing. Listen to yourselves. I very much respect Mrs Golinska, and I am happy to observe her work in the Sejm. Maybe she doesn't know that. If you talk to the representatives of the Ukrainian minority, and you have a chance, because there are a lot of them in our district or in your constituency, then you'll find out that they're sorry too. These are Polish citizens, we must remember this, Polish citizens, not Ukrainians, only Polish citizens of Ukrainian origin. They've suffered a lot of harm. After all, your government was the first government after 1989 to withdraw the funding to the Ukrainians for the celebration of the Vistula action, in which the communists gave these people an hour to pack their things and to get them out of the house. You've withdrawn the funding. It's not like there was no exhumation in Kharkov. They were because we did it. They're not here because it's a rhetoric for your politics. When normal people ruled in Poland, normal governments were focused on dialogue, it was possible to communicate, often in hellishly difficult matters, very difficult, because we really share a lot. Poles who live... Like my sleep. Grandma, she's been dead for a year, dreaming what happened in the East, thinking about the Ukrainians, she cried at night. These relationships are so hard. But we managed to beat it. The Ukrainians have a grudge against us, they have a grudge against you for the politics you're doing, for the extortion, for the politics that makes it impossible for them to honor their memory. That's why there are reactions in Ukraine. There were exhumations, and they're not there because that's the policy you're running. Don't talk to the Ukrainians in that condescending tone. You're not going to Kharkov on tanks to conduct exhumations. This is Ukraine. Volhynia is Ukraine. Kharkiv is Ukraine. It is the Ukrainians who will decide what they will agree to, and we must have a dialogue with them. They don't punish us, they can't tell us, they can't decide what we're gonna do at home. But let's talk. Don't spoil this atmosphere. If you listen to your speeches, you'll hear that they were just confrontational. There was not a word about dialogue, there was concern about what to do together, there was a pretension about it, there was a pretension about it, here to draw attention, here to draw attention, it's wrong, here confrontationally. It's not the language you can talk about. We as Poles have responsibilities towards Poland and Central Europe, responsibilities towards our ancestors and obligations towards our children, so that from this land, which has been the subject of many wars, many conflicts which Poles were one of the main victims, make land where people live normally. And you have such a policy and use such a language that it seems impossible today, because today these are just words, as the Minister said. But today's words lead to tomorrow's actions, and painful acts will result in major conflicts tomorrow. This will be the end of your politics. You got a relationship with the Germans, with the Ukrainians, with the Lithuanians, in many situations very good, and you end up having a bad relationship with everyone, only with Belarus good. And Mrs Niedziela rightly pointed out: Where is the progress on the issues of the Kuropat? Where's the progress? You praise the Belarusians who do not even admit that there are Poles there. Not only Bolsheviks, not only Stalin's cleansing, but also Katyn's. And they say we're not there at all, we're not our victims, our compatriots. And you praise them. And the Ukrainians who let everything go, let the Łyczaks be refurbished, everything is refurbished... You say you're missing a lion. I miss him, too. But not with these methods. There's nothing you can do about it. You're not gonna get anything. I implore you, in the name of your country's responsibility, get off this road, return to the language of dialogue, return to the language of understanding of your partner. Poland is a large nation, a great, proud nation whose duty is to understand the right of the other side in order to allow the other party to understand our reasons. It's possible. Believe it. Only that I think you will, only in 2, 3 years, when you learn certain things, when you appreciate it, when you stop looking at Polish foreign policy as a foreign policy, made by Platform, Tusk, Kwasniewski or someone else. [[Sikorsky.]] President Kaczyński made it, too. That's exactly how he did it. And if you remember, we've always praised President Kaczyński for Eastern policy. Even Adam Michnik wrote an article in which he wrote after visiting Georgia that he was proud of President Kaczyński because he flew through Kiev. There really are things that connect us. There are things that connect us. Respect that. Respect our work, because it's also your work. We share responsibility to our children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - for relations with the Germans, for relations with the Ukrainians. We need good cooperation. Respect that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u841	Thank you very much, sir. In the procedure of correcting Małgorzata Golińska. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u842	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Speaker! Since you suggested that I have no contact with the Ukrainian minority, I know nothing, and I should meet them... [[I didn't say that.]] ...though of course it is very important and my knowledge and knowledge will deepen... Missed, sir. I work in the committee of national minorities, and for this reason this contact with the Union of Ukrainians in Poland is quite common. That is why I raised this issue, because several times at committee meetings on various occasions - there were cases of aggression against Ukrainians in Poland, there were also cases of verbal attacks or destruction of monuments - it was apparent that very often this misunderstanding was due to the fact that the Polish party believed that the monument was illegally erected, and the Ukrainian party believed that it was a commemoration of the remains. It's the right thing to explain. [[Not destroy it.]] ...because without explaining it [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll be in the wedge we're in today. Thank you. [[I agree. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u843	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Bartosz Cichocki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u844	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I apologize in advance for the telegraph shortcut and the response rate, but so many questions have been asked, of which I am very happy and for which I thank you that within 10 minutes cannot be answered in detail, but... [[You can answer in writing.]] ...just as you say and what was my intention - we are ready, very willing to respond in detail to each of them in writing. Mr Gosievski asked for a small border traffic with Russia. In fact, we see after this time, which has passed since the suspension of the small border traffic agreement, that not only passenger traffic has returned very quickly to the level of local border traffic, but we also see such a significant increase in VAT revenue that offsets the loss of retail revenues. In short, it is clear that earlier this small border traffic was used to buy Russian alcohol, fuel and cigarettes, which made the budget lose. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that the decision to suspend the local border traffic was taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. In the explanatory memorandum there are state security conditions and here competence is clearly outside our ministry. We expect Russia to stop military aggression against neighbouring countries. We expect Russia to return to the world, respect its own obligations, respect for fundamental principles such as non-application of force to resolve international conflicts, respect for borders, respect for national sovereignty. On this issue we find complete understanding among allies in NATO, among the G7 countries. We are co-authors of sanctions policy within the European Union. I answer the next question immediately: this policy will not change. Our position is that this sanction policy should not change until Russia has fulfilled the commitments it has made in the Minsk talks set out in the Minsk agreements. In NATO we also find... And this is also a partial response to our vision of relations with Germany and with other allies, with France. Here is full understanding, very good cooperation, strengthening so-called. East flank, adaptation of the North Atlantic Alliance. Here we expect a great deal from next year's NATO Summit in terms of development of forces, strengthening, reform of the NATO chain of command. These are the priorities and we will continue to work towards strengthening the North Atlantic Alliance until Russia has given up its use of force, the use of force blackmail, the cessation of attacks on our ICT systems and the use of special services for attempts to break the state as almost happened in Montenegro. Of course, bilaterally we expect cooperation in explaining the circumstances of the Smolensk disaster. Today, not only is the Russian side not cooperating, but also the situation is deteriorating. Access to the crash site is hindered. There we observe some action to show this, calling into question Russia's assurance of state power on this plot, which we agreed bilaterally that the victims would be commemorated there. I'm not talking about the lack of return, the holding of the wreckage. We're having conversations, we've been consulting at the director's level in April. We have reported a whole series of cases, a whole catalogue of cases, also known to the Russian site, including diplomatic property, Polish houses. It's a multi-page document. We're talking about this. Minister Waszczykowski, in the opinion-making journal of the Kommiersant, clearly signalled his readiness to talk also at the level of the heads of the Ministry. We had in July - which can be seen as one of the few positive examples - good consultations at the level of the Vice-Ministers of Foreign Affairs on the UN agenda. Poland will also be a permanent member of the UN Security Council thanks to the support of the countries of the region from 1 January. It is also this moving thread in your questions about Poland's isolation, about Poland's negative reception. Let me remind you that June's vote ended with 190 to 0. Germany also voted for us, Ukraine also voted for us, which puts into question the thesis on isolation and the negative perception of Poland in the region and in the world. On the positive side of Russia, we recently had a meeting of the Ministry of Transport. It's about traffic permits. These are technical matters, but we take this constructively and we deal with these matters - very important things, Poland is about 20% EU freight to Russia, these are the interests of our carriers, jobs. I know there's a conversation going on. I do not know the exact date, is to arrive in Poland a group of phytosanitary and veterinary inspectors from Russia; there are Russian reservations regarding different categories of Polish food products. So here we see the ability to talk, too. We are open to dialogue, but as I said at the beginning, as long as we see aggression on the other hand, we see hostile actions, hostility, we will focus on raising our defences, our security and our allies. And again, many of these elements, of course, lie outside the competence of the Ministry. This is where I recommend contacting the Ministry of National Defence. Mr Nitras asked... I feel like there's been some amazing qui pro quo. It was President Komorowski who was at the Werchovna Council on the day that the Werchovna Council adopted laws glorifying UPA. On the other hand, perhaps it was about the visit of President Kaczyński to Vilnius shortly before the Smolensk disaster and the party by... [[About going to Georgia with the presidents through Kiev.]] ...and work on a law on names that is very damaging to the interests of Poles in Lithuania. Mr Suchoń said that Weimar did not work. Well, Weimar slowed down due to the German electoral calendar. Previously we also saw the reluctant French attitude, which was an element, I have the impression, the pressure after the Ministry of Development's decision to cancel the talks concerning the purchase of helicopters. This offset part was not implemented. In September, a very good Weimar consultation took place in Berlin at the level of the Vice-Ministers and we have a far-reaching consensus on the activation of Weimar and in the eastern direction and in the southern direction. We talked very interestingly and constructively about the development of the European Union. There are different concepts here. France, as we know, promotes the idea of a two-speed Europe. We believe that it is important to develop among 28, probably 27 countries soon, not to share Europe. Next week there will be a directorial weimary consultation at the level of department directors, and in November there will be a security-focused consultation in Paris. As far as refugees are concerned, today we see that under influence, among others. Poland's positions, but also the Visegrad countries, which undermines the idea of the total collapse of this structure, the European Union's policy on refugees is moving to external aspects. Like we said from the beginning, you have to react at source to a terrorist threat, to a migratory threat. The Ministry of National Defence has taken very important decisions to strengthen Poland's participation in EU stabilisation actions towards Libya. There was a question about changing vectors. I still feel that you are confusing the question of responding to the decisions of our partners with these strategic issues that are striking to the interests of Poland. There is no change in the vectors of Poland's foreign policy. On the other hand, in an astonishing way to me, the Members of the Civic Platform have ignored decisions and [[♪ The bell ♪]] statements by politicians, Ukrainian officials, Lithuanian officials or German officials, focusing solely on our responses. Mr Nitras went to justify the repercussions, these Ukrainian rhetorics on exhumation. I remind you that the Ukrainian side argues this not to Kharkov, but to Hruszowice and the alleged mass destruction of Ukrainian commemorations in Poland. Hruszowice is a good example. The monument was dismantled on the basis of the decision of the local government to which the local government was entitled, not the decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was a symbolic monument, it wasn't a grave, it wasn't a burial place. For a long time, for a dozen years In fact, it took time, as well as previous governments drew attention to the Ukrainian side, that the monument was erected illegally, and if the Ukrainian side believes that there are remains of UPA soldiers, we invite and allow exhumation. The Ukrainian party was not interested in this. Deputy Prime Minister Gliński, Minister of Culture responsible for this issue, sent a letter to the voivodships after dismantle, paying attention to the need to inform the Ministry of Culture in the case of such decisions and to coordinate this issue. So Minister Gliński clearly emphasized the government's attitude towards the form of dismantling. The government had the right to make a decision, but the form was clearly condemned. I witnessed this statement by Prime Minister Gliński in Kiev on 23 October. Retortion in the form of a search ban in Ukraine, when we have tens of thousands of victims and wars with Bolsheviks, and fights in 1939, and during World War II, is amazing. It is a decision of the Ukrainian state and I am surprised that you are burdening Poland's foreign policy with decisions that burden Ukraine with this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u845	I'd like you to get to the bottom of this, 'cause I'm gonna... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Bartosz Cichocki: I'm almost done, Marshal. [[Mr. Brother-in-law's speech from the IPN.]] Mrs. Member! I'm from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Mr. President of the Szwagrzyk is from the Institute of National Remembrance. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, the Ukrainian side clearly speaks of alleged mass devastations in Poland and Hruszowice. [[That's what's different about diplomacy.]] Member of the Commission, please check the reasons of the Ukrainian party. Ukrainian officials go not only to relativise or even lie to the truth about the Volyn crime, but also to rehabilitation, to glorify even Ukrainian formations collaborating with Nazi Germans. This is a deep anti-humanitarian and deeply anti-European action. Today, we have an article in the journal Haaretz. This is met with condemnation not only in Poland. It's not our phobia or our hysteria. This is a very serious problem that we are drawing the Ukrainian side's attention to and we are saying: let's talk about it on the intergovernmental committee, let's meet. When it comes to the work of historians - again it is not our resort - we have a forum of historians of IPN. Recently met in Cherkas, there was talk of Chełmszczyzna, there are plans for next year. [[That's a list of historians in the IPN.]] There is a Polish-Ukrainian Partnership Forum. Unfortunately, at least three members on the Ukrainian side, including the co-chairman Mr Portnikow, Mr Windrowych and Mr Zinchenka, have made public rude statements about the highest Polish authorities, the Polish government, over the last week. Does this burden our policy or does it burden Ukrainian politics? [[Applause]] This is the failure of Ukraine's European policy, which we are extremely concerned about because our goal remains to build a partnership with Ukraine. We are a clear ally of Ukraine in the face of Russian aggression. No one like Poland in the defence sphere, in the field of cooperation of special services, offers what Poland offers, I assure you. [[So what happened to the diplomacy that she broke up?]] You're welcome, Minister... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Bartosz Cichocki: With Ukrainian diplomacy? You're asking about Ukrainian? I'm still trying to explain. The Lithuanian party refuses to recognize the spelling of Polish names. Now the law concerning letters not appearing as live in Polish names is being processed. Lithuanian and Ukrainian parties limit access to education, to education in Polish. There have been questions about Belarus. Let me mention the warm man, Lukashenka. That's a question for Marshal Karczewski. This is not a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[That's a scandalous statement.]] As far as Kuropaty is concerned, on the one hand, the Member Nitras asks if we will enter Kharkov with tanks, and on the other hand he expects us not to know what forced the Belarusian side to search for, exhumation in Kuropaty. At every meeting, during all the MFA talks, we raise the fact that there are Poles lying there and we expect a search. The Augusto manhunt, the Belarusian Cathedral list - we're picking it up. On the other hand - please note - it is important to appreciate progress and good cooperation with the Belarusian side when it comes to exhumation of recent officers of the Border Protection Corps in terms of renovation, cooperation in monuments, the legacy of the Second Republic or, more broadly, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Very important questions about Germany. There were questions about the abduction of children. These are the powers of the Ministry of Justice, and where it goes... Minister, if you'll excuse me, you've been out of time for almost six minutes. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Bartosz Cichocki: We will provide more detailed answers in writing. Thank you again for all your questions. I'm sorry I missed your time. [[Applause]] Thank you, because it took six minutes longer, and you promised to answer some of the questions in writing. I'm sure it'll get to the MPs. Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u846	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The statement by the German Minister of Defence concerning the strengthening of opposition parties in Poland, which has already been commented on by representatives of MON and MFA, is unacceptable. The Resorts clearly presented the position of the Polish government on this matter. This should not happen, especially in the case of sensitive relations such as those between Germany and Poland. Fortunately, the editor of Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung acknowledged that interfering in Poland's affairs was unacceptable. Many of my German friends, whom I spoke to recently, feel the same way. Minister! What is the Ministry planning to do in the near future so that such situations do not recur in Polish-German contacts?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u847	Whoever's standing still, he's going backwards. If the European Union does not expand eastward, the crisis caused by Britain's Brexit, I suppose, will increase, and hopefully this will not be the beginning of the end of the EU. So what are Poland's expectations for the Eastern Partnership Summit on 24 November 2017? Is there any chance of maintaining the guarantee of EU membership for Eastern European countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u848	On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 51st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Simon Giżyński. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u849	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been 99 years since Poland regained its independence. It was reborn in a favourable political climate in Europe after the end of World War I. In this military conflict, the possessive states found themselves in opposing military and political camps. On the one hand, the central countries: Austria and Germany, on the other hand, Russia. After a long time of captivity, there was a hope of rebuilding the Polish state. A strong support for Poles was Wilson's message, which was intended to restore Poland's independence. Patriotic-national camp politicians were aware of this historic opportunity for independence. The Polish delegation spoke with a strong voice about the need to be reborn as a country with its own territory, nation and independent authorities. Spontaneously, local power centers were formed, and after Piłsudski's return from the Magdeburg Internment Center, they gave him power. The process of integrating the boundaries of individual partitions, which lasted for the next few years, began. Greater Poles, Silesians in three Silesian uprisings fought for Polish membership. In Warmia and Mazury and Powiśle there were plebiscites, whose results were to decide that these lands belonged to the reborn Republic of Poland. The population of Pomerania, together with the inhabitants of our region, also hoped to resolve the issue of territorial belonging to Poland. When it was decided to create the Pomeranian Corridor, which provided the Second Republic with access to the sea, euphoria filled the inhabitants of these lands. Under the terms of the 1919 Treaty of Versailles. Starogard and many other cities were within the borders of reborn Poland. The implementation of these provisions was supervised by General Józef Haller and his subordinate troops. A special day for the inhabitants of Starogard was on 29 January 1920 when Polish troops of the Pomeranian Front under the command of General Józef Haller arrived on the old-gardn market. This day is commemorated in our city with a solemn call of commemoration and dorms, concerts, as well as lectures. These local celebrations are attended by residents of the city, the region, as well as schoolchildren, for whom this is a unique lesson of patriotism. A year ago, it is a very good time to analyse our current geopolitical situation, to ask ourselves whether the current elites are prepared to develop the concept of European stability. Here we should return to the issue of support of Poles from 99 years ago. It wasn't anyone other than the President of the United States who was our ally. And today the United States of America is our main ally, also with the support of President Donald Trump. The speech of the President of the United States of America of July 2017 clearly shows an interest in working with a partner who could help them to ensure stability in the world, in our part of Europe. One thing is certain that the country that will present the stabilisation project to the US leaders of this region of the world can count on the support of the US administration. There are a few facts to support this thesis. Poland survived the time of communism best, the Church was the basis of opposition, it is with us that we remember the banishment of the Bolsheviks in 1920, it is in Poland that we enjoy the memory of Solidarity, the great John Paul. II. Who can boast about this in Europe? Poles can honestly boast of the lack of collaboration with Germany during World War II. That is why Poland is the last bastion of Western civilization in Europe. This is why we can count on future leadership in this part of Europe, and we owe all this to the heroes of 1918, their wisdom and predictability. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u850	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u851	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On Sunday 29 October 2017, I had the great pleasure of attending the 10th anniversary of the Cantate Domino mixed choir at the Sanctuary of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. This choir was established in October 2007. From the beginning, his conductor is Mr Andrzej Budziński, an excellent musician, graduate of the Krakow Academy of Music. The Cantate Domino choir repertoire includes works by such composers as Giuseppe Verdi, Wolfgang Amadeusz Mozart, Jan Sebastian Bach, Georg Haendel and many others. Cantate Domino's choir is performed not only in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, but also in many cities of Poland and abroad. Among these places should be mentioned among others. Chapel of Our Lady of Czestochowa on Jasna Góra, sanctuary on the Holy Cross and Wadowice, Kraków Łagiewniki, Kałków, Leżajsk or Lichen. The locals of Lviv and Sambora in Ukraine and Leipzig and Bremenhaven in Germany were also able to get acquainted with the talents of the Ostrowiec choirists. A special event was the concert of the choir at the grave of Jan Sebastian Bach in Leipzig. The Cantate Domino Choir can boast of activities, among others. first place in the Voivodship Carols and pastorals competition in Włoszczów in 2012 And it was the carols that were on the first album of the choir. On the occasion of the anniversary of the 10th anniversary of the Cantate Domino choir, a beautiful concert took place.I do not count the hours and years in which both Ostrowiec choirists and invited guests took part: the excellent soprano Renata Drozd, string quartet composed of Magdalena Pałgan, Mariusz Połomka, Monika Rudkowska and Anna Czarnowska-Połomka and the children's choir Świętokrzyskie Bemolka under the direction of Ewa Jurkowska-Siwiec, consisting of students of the State School of Music in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. The audience, who filled the hall of Etiuda cinema to the last place, participated in a real musical feast and rewarded the artists with great applause. The bishop of the Sandomierz diocese Krzysztof Nitkiewicz and the president of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie Jarosław Górczyński took honorary patronage over the jubilee. High Izbo! I would like to warmly and cordially thank you for inviting me to the jubilee concert. I do not count the hours and years. I was very pleased to be able to participate in such an important event for the Cantate Domino choir. I commend the choir's actions and actions, as well as its admiration for its achievements to date. During these 10 years I could observe how a choir was born out of love of music and creative passion, which not only sings to the Lord for His glory, but gives great joy to the listeners and is the great ambassador of our little Ostrava homeland. At the same time, I wish Cantate Domino choir choir members every success, further success, subsequent fruitful artistic activities and the realization of all, both artistic and personal plans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u852	Thank you very much, sir. Last statement, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u853	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two months ago, we said goodbye to Professor Dr. Hab. Andrzej Czachor, a longtime research worker of the Centre for Nuclear Research, one of the leading participants of the Civic Movement for the Unimandate Election Districts, an outstanding scholar, active social activist, patriot. On 12 October, during the 49th session of the Sejm, I took the liberty of quoting a passage from the article by the Professor on the need to change the electoral ordination in Poland. In order to save Professor Czachor's work from oblivion, I would like to read a fragment of another article from 2002, presenting the dangers associated with the party system and providing a simple prescription for the healing of this sick mechanism. The party election system has misled our citizens' self-preservation instincts. The governing bodies of the parties ensure that the system remains unchanged and that the electoral authority is maintained, and the Constitution of the Republic of Poland practically prevents citizens from expressing their decisions in the form of a referendum. Even in the event of a collection of 500,000. signatures under the request of a referendum, the decision to carry it out is still in the hands of the Sejm. There is an insect that paralyzes the caterpillar of another species with its venom. It's devoid of movement, but it still becomes a pantry for the next generation of insect that caught it. In this way the virus of the party choices, so-called. proportional ordination, stunned Poles. They willingly support party teams in a competition called elections, not thinking that their country has fallen from bad government. In order to reverse the course towards disaster, you need to find outstanding people to rule Poland. There are no more important matters than a reasonable choice of Members. How can patriots, wise, responsible, tough, but capable of mutual respect and cooperation, with the confidence and support of the voters, be in the Sejm? How to introduce outstanding engineers, economists, lawyers, doctors, teachers, directors, officers, councillors, councillors? How can we prevent foreign business agents, eloquent undergraduates, perpetual statesmen, clever scandalists? The experience of democracy is clear in this regard. The nationwide movement to change the electoral system - one-mandate electoral districts has been proclaiming this answer for years. You have to choose people, not parties. Men of service, talent and principles. We want such an electoral ordination to be able to select candidates in every small constituency and then choose from among them a Member who will receive the most votes of support in the district. Straight and logical, cheap and fair, in a one-mandate constituency. This is a condition necessary to get Poland out of the impasse, a condition of sine qua non. This is the subject to which we will return with stubbornness, how to change the electoral system, to the Sejm, as well as to local governments, to choose people, not letters. This is a goal worth sacrificing your mind and heart. High Izbo! The behaviour of Members in the Parliament today clearly shows that the election system needs to be changed and that the Members responsible for Poland should be elected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-11-09-sejm-51-2.u854	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 51st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 52nd session of the Sejm, convened on 22nd, 23rd and 24th November 2017, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 0 min 32]]
