ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on my fellow Members, Catherine Osos and Mr Krystian Jarubas, to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Krystian Jarubas. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Committee on State Control - at 10 a.m. 10.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child (print No 1465) together with the position of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (print No 1558). I'm asking Mr. Mark Michalak's child's attorney for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u4	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Compiled to the High House in accordance with the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Ombudsperson's Act on Children's Rights Information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2016 and the observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, Parliamentary Printing No. 1465, provide a detailed description of the actions and actions taken by the Ombudsman last year. Their aim was to carry out the tasks imposed by law on the Ombudsman's institution in the area of protection of the rights and welfare of the child. In 2016, the Ombudsman continued a systematic analysis of the problems affecting the child and the family, as well as measures to promote and disseminate knowledge and protection of the rights of the child. In this respect, as in previous years, the Ombudsman cooperated with NGOs, universities and other actors working to protect the rights of the child. In 2016, a total of 46 213 cases were received by the Ombudsman, i.e. more than 4.5 times more than in 2008, when I had the honour to take up this office, but the number of interventions taken has remained similar since 2013. In 2016, the Ombudsman addressed a total of 154 speeches of a general nature to ministers, bodies or institutions. In 295 cases, I considered that there was a threat to the child's well-being in pending court proceedings, and therefore, using my statutory powers, I reported the Ombudsman's involvement in legal proceedings where the Ombudsman took part in the rights of the prosecutor. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities is the taking of control actions. In 2016, the Ombudsman carried out a total of 217 checks. They concentrated in three areas. As far as the first one is concerned, checks have been carried out, inter alia. in foster care facilities, youth educational centres, educational establishments and medicinal entities. They were the result of signals of irregularities in the functioning of the institutions and were carried out on their own initiative by the Ombudsman. The second area is checked, which included children's and young people's rest areas. The third area is the audit of judicial files on the judgment of the courts on the placing of children in foster care, which was carried out following the publication by the Ministry of Justice of the information entitled: The Council of Ministers adopted a proposal to prevent the collection of children because of poverty. Information from the Ministry clearly indicated that in 61 cases the only reason for the decision to place children outside the biological family was the poor economic and living conditions of families. The examination of the court files identified by the Ministry of Justice in any of the cases has not confirmed that parental poverty is the sole reason for placing the child in foster care. In 2016, the Ombudsman took part in the opinion of 46 draft legislative acts which dealt with issues related to the protection of the rights of the child, as well as several times in the meetings of the Sejm and the Senate, committees and parliamentary subcommittees, which also dealt with these issues. As part of the dissemination of knowledge about the rights of the child, the Ombudsman participated in meetings with children and young people, hosting them in his office and meeting them in various cities in Poland, among others. in schools, kindergartens, hospitals, rest facilities or nursing facilities. In total, 57 000 attended these meetings. children and young people. The honorary patronage of the Ombudsman was covered in 2016 by 275 events and initiatives carried out by NGOs, scientific institutions and state administrations. The High House's complex information covers five main areas of action for the protection of the youngest, resulting from the Ombudsperson's Act. These include the right to life and health care, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to education and the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence or other mistreatment. In the contents of the document I referred in detail to the above. issues. Allow only a synthetic take-up and indication of the most important actions taken by the Ombudsman in 2016. In the area of protection of children's rights to life and health, a total of 5389 cases have been reported to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman examined individual cases and asked the competent authorities and institutions to take action or provide information on, inter alia, cases. availability of specialist doctors, oral health status of children and adolescents, health care organisation for the developmental population, availability of modern treatment, protection of children against HIV infection, medical care during childbirth, preventive vaccination, treatment costs, paediatric standards, postpartum depression, protection of the life and health of unborn children, use of solariums by children, use of psychoactive substances, so-called. boosters, lack of experts at the stage of court proceedings initiated by appeal against the decisions of the provincial teams on disability decisions and the safety of medical procedures. To discuss the area of protection of the right of the child to raise in the family, I would like to stress that there are still the largest number of cases affecting the Ombudsman. In 2016, it was 23,597 cases. That's more than half of all the cases that have come into the Ombudsman's office this year. When intervening, the Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to provide information or take action, inter alia. in matters relating to the exercise of the right of the child to both parents, the execution of contacts between the child and the parents, the execution of judgments, young children in the foster care system, the procedures for the hearing of minors, the representation of the child in the process, the right of the child to know identity, proceedings for the removal of a person under parental authority or in custody, minor mothers in institutions, support for a biological family experiencing difficulties in carrying out care functions, the taking away of children because of parental poverty, the determination of procedures in enforcement proceedings in family courts, the observance of the rights of children placed in foster care, the protection of the right of the child to privacy, the protection of the rights of the child in adoption procedure and the functioning of day support facilities. In many individual cases, the Ombudsman initiated proceedings before the court in the framework of his statutory powers, as well as proceedings already in progress. A total of 3831 cases were reported to the Ombudsman in 2016 as regards the protection of the right of the child to decent social conditions. The Ombudsman examined individual cases and spoke to the competent authorities and institutions in cases concerning inter alia: Homelessness of children, educational benefits, parental benefits, enforcement of maintenance benefits, imprisonment by sentenced persons in accordance with Article. 209 Penal Code in the system of electronic supervision, protection of personal data of adopted children, procedures for granting family benefits, ruling on disability, insufficient number of social premises, neighborhood conflicts, protection of the image of minors, safety at playgrounds and travel concessions in collective communication for children and young people. In the area of the protection of the rights of the child to study in 2016, a total of 6980 cases were reported to the Ombudsman. These included: recruitment to kindergartens and schools, assessment of pupils, competitions in question, support for children with special educational needs in kindergartens and schools, psychological and pedagogical assistance, access to children's textbooks with visual impairment, unequal treatment and discrimination, mental health, cyber violence and suicide of pupils, respect for the rights of children and pupils at school, impact of the divorce on the school situation, safety and hygiene in kindergarten and school, insurance of pupils at school, activities of parents' councils, stay in children's chronically ill institutions, disciplinary responsibility of teachers, bringing children to schools and kindergartens, including children with disabilities, financing of educational systems, the safety of children during out-of-school activities organised by private persons, the functioning of youth educational centres, the functioning of day-care facilities, the organisation of children's and youth holidays, organisation of school sports competitions, functioning of Polish schools in Lithuania, functioning in the territory of the Republic of Poland for young people from other countries. In the area of child's right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment, a total of 4972 cases were reported to the Ombudsman in 2016. These included: neglect and violence in the home environment, mental, physical and sexual violence, peer violence, violence in schools, kindergartens, crèches and other forms of care, violence in educational, sociotherapeutic and rehabilitation institutions and abuse. A new chapter on the protection of the rights of the child in an international context has been set out in the information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016. I have decided to specify this issue because of the specificities and complexity of these issues. To a large extent, applications to the Ombudsman for intervention and ex officio actions concerned the protection of the rights of minors of foreigners in the Republic of Poland, the protection of the rights of minors of Polish citizens residing abroad and international parental abductions. On the international scene, the Ombudsman also took action to protect the rights of the child in cooperation with the European Network of Ombudsmen for Children's Rights (ENOC) and through cooperation with representatives of European and international institutions. In the framework of the actions taken for children, the Ombudsman worked closely, inter alia. with the President of the Republic of Poland, the two Chambers of Parliament, the Ombudsman of Civil Rights, the Supreme Chamber of Control, the General Inspector of Personal Data, the Advocate of Patients' Rights or the Police Headquarters, and also participated in the work, as an institution invited, inter-ministerial Team for Combating and Preventing Trade in People. Cooperation with the various state authorities, representatives of local governments, NGOs and representatives of the world of science was also carried out within the framework of the children's rights of substantive teams set up by the Ombudsman, i.e. a group for the development of adoption standards, a team for the development of school and peer mediation standards, a team for the self-emancipation of foster care pupils, youth educational centres, shelters for minors and reform centres, and a group for maintenance established together with an advocate for civil rights. Last year, I would continue to work with the Ombudsman of the rights of the child in the Code Commission for Family Law. Its task is to analyse comprehensively the functioning of the law in terms of safeguarding the welfare of the child, strengthening his subjectivity and a new look at the philosophy of parental responsibility, personal and family relations with the child and educational situations. An important element of the Ombudsman's activity was the continuation of nationwide social campaigns. The first one is a social campaign, the courage saves lives, whose task was to draw the attention of children and young people, that courage is primarily the ability to make wise decisions, the ability to assertive attitudes, responsibility for themselves and others. Uninterruptably since 2013, also as a social movement, the campaign "React to violence against children." You have the right. Its aim is to change the passive attitude of people towards acts of child abuse and to reduce social consent to violence against children. At this point, I will merely signal that from 13 July 2017, the response to violence against children will become not only a right but also an obligation, under the threat of criminal imprisonment until 3 years old. In 2016, there were also numerous competitions of the Ombudsman, among others. for the best master's and doctoral work relating to the subject of the rights of the child or the competition, this concerns us for local television regarding the protection of the rights of the child. In 2016, the Ombudsman continued his publishing activity under the Ombudsman's Library. In addition to many of Janusz Korczak's publications, the following publications were published: "Protecting child's development against threats," "Protecting children's rights in emergency situations," "I love." I'm not hitting? Violence against children in a public discourse, a child as an entity of freedom of conscience and religion, or a child's exercise of parental authority and contacts in conditions of the existence of a foreign element. The most important part of the information, integral, is the attention to the state of compliance with the rights of the child. When assessing the state of compliance with children's rights in Poland each year, attention should be paid to the Ombudsman's demands for improving the legal protection of younger citizens already in 2016. With regard to the child's right to life and health, the Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out, whether in his observations or in his speech to the Minister of Health, underestimation and insufficient availability of dental services for children. The Ombudsman has repeatedly called for a comprehensive state policy to improve the health of children's teeth, including effective prevention and the availability of dental services. The Ombudsman's actions resulted in the establishment in 2016 by the Health Minister of the Panel for the development of solutions for improving the health of the mouth in children. Representatives of the Ombudsman participated in the work of the team. The task of the team was to develop solutions to ensure that adequate mechanisms were available for the education of adequate oral health attitudes in whole families. The result of the work was the development of a document containing a diagnosis of dental care for children and adolescents, which highlighted the unsatisfactory health status of the mouth of the youngest population, organisational problems in healthcare and potential causes of failure of current solutions, in particular the incorrect valuation of dental procedures for children and adolescents. This diagnosis confirmed the conclusions made several times in the statements of the Advocate General. The proposed model of dental care organisation for children and young people is to include general health education on the health status of the mouth, including the promotion of oral health already among pre-school children. At the same time, it involves introducing a breakdown into primary and specialist dental care for children, so that each child has access to a selected primary dental care doctor who will direct them to a specialist if necessary. At the same time, by order of the President of the National Health Fund of 27 June 2016 No 51/2016 amending the regulation on the establishment of conditions for the conclusion and implementation of dental treatment contracts, the solution proposed by the Ombudsman of children's rights has been introduced for many years, i.e. the correction coefficient of incorrect, low valuation of dental procedures. For children, this is a factor of 1.2. He is, of course, too short and requires an increase, but I would like to note that something has moved on this subject. This solution allows for an increase in the proportion of treated children while reducing the debt of treatment centres for children and adolescents only. The Ombudsman's requests regarding the need for changes in the way and level of funding for care for the youngest patients have contributed to the fact that the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification has finally included the area of hospital services in the 2017 plan for the treatment of children's diseases. It focused more than 2% in total expenditure incurred by the National Health Fund for the provision of services such as hospital treatment. The actual costs incurred by healthcare providers for the provision of services dedicated to patients up to 18 years of age will be analysed. A review of the system solutions in place in other countries will also be carried out. The Agency has also announced the initiation of a procedure under the 2004 Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare in respect of the collection of financial and accounting data for 2015 such as medical rehabilitation. This is the answer to the request made by the Ombudsman to the Minister of Health for the need to re-evaluate the benefits of systemic rehabilitation in stationary conditions for children. Re-measurement - I'm still thinking of overestimating, not just overestimating, because all pediatric procedures are underestimated. The Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out the need to extend the calendar of compulsory preventive vaccinations to pneumococcal vaccinations. They have been introduced into the calendar of mandatory preventive vaccinations. Since 1 January 2017, all children born after 31 December 2016 have been vaccinated against pneumococci. I have repeatedly stressed that children who are chronically ill, including Crohn's disease, should be treated with proper health care. So far, the programme dedicated to them has been too short to get a remission of the disease. From 1 January 2017, according to the Ombudsman's requests, the application of a drug programme for children suffering from Crohn's disease was extended from 12 to 24 months. At the same time, a medicine previously used solely for the treatment of the disease in adults was also available for children. In 2015 the Ombudsman called on the Minister for Health to give a negative opinion on the draft regulation amending the 2002 Regulation of the Minister on the issue of medicinal products and medical devices from the pharmacy. At that time, the changes made to the law gave the child freedom to acquire hormonal agents for internal use without a doctor's prescription. By justifying his negative position, the Ombudsman pointed out that the child should not be held responsible for the use of a hormonal agent. It's the responsibility of an adult - a parent and a doctor. The child may not be aware of the side effects and side effects of the medicine. At that time, the Minister of Health did not share the position of the Ombudsman. Following further appeals by the Ombudsman on this issue, the Minister for Health took action to limit direct access for children to hormonal medicinal products. In his observations on the state of the child's rights, the Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out and pointed out the problem of parental non- maintenance of children in terms of the low effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. Let me remind you that the maintenance threshold is PLN 725 since 2008. In order to ensure that children fully implement the right to decent social conditions, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman have set up an expert group on child support. The panel's analysis allowed the Ombudsman to formulate a number of requests addressed to the relevant ministers, institutions and organisations to protect the rights of the child more effectively. One of the proposals completed was the preparation and conduct of a social campaign by the Minister of the Family, Labour and Social Policy. The responsible parent pays, whose aim was to raise the issue of non-alimination and encourage the payment of maintenance. With regard to the very numerous speeches on the professional activation of maintenance debtors and the possibility to direct debtors to socially useful work and the need to make greater use of the electronic surveillance system in relation to those convicted of non-alination offences in the Ministry of Justice, legislative work has been undertaken to amend the Article. 209 Penal Code. The project was designed, among others. fulfilling the Ombudsman's request as regards the possibility of holding a penalty for the above mentioned. the offence in the electronic surveillance system. The act adopted in this regard is already in force. The Ombudsman has repeatedly demanded that children be protected from violence by adults in the educational system. To this end, he has consistently sought to amend the rules on disciplinary action against teachers since 2011. In his submissions, he called for the power of the Ombudsman, as in the court, to lodge a complaint against the order of the disciplinary officer to refuse or terminate disciplinary proceedings and to determine the conditions under which the child may be heard in the course of disciplinary proceedings. He requested restrictions on the hearing of a minor witness and the creation of instruments for his protection, including interviews in the presence of a psychologist and only if the child's testimony can be relevant for the resolution of the case, the application of the principle of one-off hearing and the possibility of questioning the child only without the presence of the teacher concerned by disciplinary proceedings. I also requested that disciplinary responsibility be extended in accordance with Article. 6 The Teacher Charter also applies to teachers employed in public kindergartens, schools and institutions run by natural persons, legal persons other than local self-government units, and in non-public kindergartens and non-public schools with public school powers regardless of the employment dimension. It should be noted with satisfaction that most of the Ombudsman's requests for child protection in disciplinary proceedings against teachers have been taken into account. The provisions of the revised Teacher Card Act have been in force since May 2016. The more effective protection of the rights of children in youth education centres will certainly serve to increase, as the Ombudsman has repeatedly asked, the amount of subsidies to pupils of these institutions but not to the centre. The weight of P46 has been increased from values 3 to 5. It's not as much as it needs to be, but it's the next step. The Ombudsman consistently commented on the functioning of day support facilities. In 2016, the Ombudsman's concerns raised the proposed changes to the provisions of the Family Support Act and the foster care system concerning the location of these facilities. The Ombudsman raised objections to the President of the Sejm Committee on Social Policy and the Family concerning the prohibition of the location of a daily support facility in one building with an organisation of the educational system and the prohibition of the location of two or more day support facilities in one building. The Ombudsman's requests have been taken into account. The Ombudsman has taken numerous steps to better safeguard the protection of minors' rights in judicial proceedings under the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of Child Abduction Abroad. The Ombudsman's submissions concerned the restoration of the possibility of bringing a cassation complaint in these cases and the withdrawal from the immediate enforceability of the provisions issued in that procedure. In response to the requests - repeatedly notified and to the Ministry of Justice, and to the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland - legislative work has been undertaken aimed at introducing the amendments requested by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman also took steps to ensure a uniform, pro-constitutional interpretation of the provisions of the Law on State Aid in Child Education, implementing the Government's Family 500+. The Ombudsman noted that the refusal to grant child benefit to foreigners with refugee status, to grant subsidiary protection or to grant residence permits for humanitarian reasons was incompatible with the constitutional principle of equal treatment between entities in similar factual and legal situations and with the principle that the State would provide assistance to families in difficult physical and social situations. The actions of the Ombudsman led to the consolidation of the judicial line and subsequently changed the practice of the administrative bodies which grant the benefit of 500+ to foreigners without changing the rules. The government's efforts to support families with children have led to the repeated request made by the Ombudsman for children's rights in terms of the need to support material multi-children's families. According to data from the Central Statistical Office, one in eleven persons lived below the minimum of existence on farms with three children and one in six on farms with four or more children. This situation has improved. Nor is it possible to refer to the Ombudsman's actions to increase the criminal protection of minors. These activities were mainly carried out in 2016, but ended in 2017, therefore the information does not cover this issue. President of the Republic of Poland in April this year. He signed a law amending the Penal Code, which ended the work on legislation that is more effective in protecting children from violence. The initiator and designer of the changes in the law in this regard was the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, before making a proposal to the Minister of Justice several times, consequently to the President. Changes to the Penal Code increase the level of protection of minors with particular regard to children under the age of 15, as well as those who are not able because of their mental or physical state. They also criminalise the failure to notify law enforcement of the most serious offences committed to the detriment of children. Thank you, High Izbo, for listening to the information and for what has already been done in terms of strengthening the subjectivity of children and protecting their rights, I would also like to recall the Ombudsman's comments and requests, which need urgent attention. They are described in detail in part of the information: Notes on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. Since it is also a large material, I will only allow myself to signal the most important ones in the slogan. With regard to the right to life and health, the state of compliance with the rights of the child in this respect requires special attention, among others. for: insufficient availability of specialist doctors; underestimation of paediatric procedures for children; necessity of an annual examination of each child by a pediatrician; lack of medical standards in the prevention of child health from 5 to 18 years of age; quality of medical services provided to children; risk of child health safety; risk of liquidation of the child's fate monitoring system - it is very important because he is embedded in the standards of perinatal care, how these standards will cease to function; there will be no system for monitoring the fate of a small child; the quality of services and the availability of psychiatric care; insufficient measures to improve the condition of teething of children; insufficient health care in schools; prevention at an early stage of education; inclusion of children with rare high-special health care; insufficient cooperation between providers of health care; limited availability of therapy with non-commercial clinical studies and certain modern medicines; acts of self-harm, suicide attempts, suicide of children - starting with statistics on which we do not actually have, through prevention and action; problem of supporting young parents, including minor parents; access to a doctor of gynecologists for minors and certain children; the use of alcohol in pregnancy and in the use of children; As regards the right to family upbringing, I would like to draw attention to: supporting biological families; the need to improve parental competence; the right of the child to be brought up by both parents; the need to regulate the problem of so-called. in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a minor child; in the case of a child's absence of legal representation; in the case of a child; in the case of a child's absence of an integrated information system; in the case of a parent; in the case of a child; in the case of a child's of a child's In the category of the right to decent social conditions in the comments, the Ombudsman points out: the difficult situation of families outside the State aid scheme; unequal treatment of families with regard to access to education; homelessness among children - again further studies confirmed that this phenomenon exists; very low effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services; difficulties in enforcing maintenance benefits ordered by the judgments of Polish courts from parents residing outside the country; limited access to maintenance funds; discrepancies in the case-law of the administrative bodies in determining the right to family benefits and allowances to family benefits; a system of social assistance for families with children; lack of protection of housing needs of families with children; lack of a system of support for persons leaving foster care; the quality of the process of independent parents; lack of temporary shelters for families with children; lack of sufficient information on benefits for children; assistance for children with disabilities; inconsistencies in the case-law of district decision-making teams; architectural barriers; lack of home for mothers and fathers with children and women in pregnancy; poor technical condition and the elimination of playgrounds. In the category of right to study in comments on the state of child rights, the Ombudsman draws attention in particular to: teacher training in the field of practical preparation for work; practice of assessing the educational achievements of pupils and informing them about criteria of assessment; supervision of school heads; penalties affecting children's rights; access to nursery care; access of children aged 3 years to pre-school education; equalisation of educational opportunities of children from rural areas and from families with low material status; equal opportunities for pupils to learn with special educational needs; organisation of psychological and pedagogical assistance in pre-schools, schools and institutions - this is a matter of practice, because it is a matter of theoretically, it is well-defined; use by teachers and directors of educational establishments of inappropriate means of influence; monitoring of the quality of youth work of educational centres and youth socio-therapy; lack of coherence of educational activities in schools; care in private institutions with disabilities and children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children' Last range, the last level includes the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralization, negligence and other mistreatment. Here, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child pays particular attention to the continued use of corporal penalties against children; the need to strengthen the criminal protection of minors; the need to take action to combat hate speech effectively; the need to respond to violence against children; the need to prevent and combat sexual abuse of children; the representation of the child in criminal proceedings; the need to continue to rely on the so-called '. outside countertype of child discipline; criminal and attempted measures to prevent family violence; violence against children by guardians and teachers; conditions for interrogation of minors and victims in criminal matters; participation of medical services in the recognition of violence among children; extension of the catalogue of cases excluding an institution of conviction; application of a ban on child labour for child convicted of violence against minors; prejudice of child in public space - it probably requires legislative intervention in the form of a special legal document which would protect children at all levels by prejudice and harm, including by the nearest; detention of children of foreigners in Poland; protection of children from inappropriate content disseminated in cinemas; monitoring of the functioning of the law on the prevention of violence in the family; specification of the child and his/her sex in statistics on victims of violence; the guarantee of the rights of minors placed in the police chambers of the child; lack of questionnaires to estimate the risk of violence and algorithms of conduct in cases of fraud; identification of a case of a criminal offence and a remedy to minors; the protection of the child's rights in legal proceedings; the protection of the child's interests to the natural interests of the child; the child's in the case of violence; the child's's's's's's's' right of violence I hope that both the government and Parliament will examine the comments submitted and the proposals and will take steps to improve the respect for the rights of the child and to develop high standards of protection of the rights and welfare of the child in Poland. In conclusion, as in the case of information for last year, I have described Janusz Korczak, a defender of the rights of the child, who points this out: Next to a defender who knows the paragraphs of written rights, I demand a place for an educator who knows the secret of the rights of the unwritten. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present her position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, at its meeting on 25 May 2017. The report of the Committee is in print No 1558. Members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, as well as invited guests, took note of the activity of the Ombudsman for 2016 with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, print No 1465. High Izbo! The Ombudsman of the rights of the child in Poland has a strong constitutional and statutory mandate as a state control body. In accordance with the provisions of the Article. 12 of the Ombudsperson's Act on Children's Rights, the Ombudsman presented extensive information on his activity for 2016. At the beginning of his speech, the Ombudsman pointed out that in 2016 46 213 cases were received, which represents in my analysis of this comprehensive document a decrease of almost 2,5 000 in relation to 2015. cases as well as a drop compared to 2014 and 2013, but represents an increase, as he noted, by 4.5% in relation to 2008. On the other hand, the number of interventions undertaken by the Ombudsman remains close to 2013. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities in 2016 was the checks carried out, among others. in foster care facilities, educational establishments or educational centres. The number of cases was 217. The audit activity also concerned the examination of court files following information from the Ministry of Justice concerning the prevention of child withdrawal due to poverty. In 2016, the Ombudsman participated repeatedly in meetings of the Sejm and the Senate, as well as meetings of committees and parliamentary subcommittees, giving an opinion of up to 46 different types of normative acts. According to the Act, the Ombudsman listed five main areas of his activity, i.e. the right to life and health, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to science, the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment. He pointed out that traditionally the largest number of cases, since 23,569, concerned the right of a child to be brought up in the family. A chapter on the protection of the rights of the child in an international context was set out in the 2016 information. In his speech, the Ombudsman pointed out that he was working closely with state authorities, self-government representatives and local government organisations in the framework of actions taken to support children. As the Ombudsman points out, an important element of activity in 2016 was the running of nationwide social campaigns aimed at promoting the rights of the child. Among the problems encountered, the Ombudsman also highlighted the low effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. However, there is no diagnosis in the report of the cause of such a large number of unattended children. The actions taken by the Ombudsman, which were indicated in the application, concerned inter alia. efforts to better safeguard the rights of the child in judicial proceedings, enhance the right to criminal protection of minors, the right to health, the right to decent social conditions and the right to education. Following Mr Mark Michalak's speech, MEPs participating in the work of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth spoke. Among the voices appearing during the sitting were opinions appreciating the Ombudsman's work, but there were also speeches that pointed to some negligence or irregularities in the performance of the Ombudsman's duties. Among them is the problem of maintenance arrears, care alternately exercised by both parents, control of the conditions of stay in care institutions, lack of reference to the question of the protection of the life of unborn children, as well as the risk of gender ideology and the problem of children's participation in advertising and involvement in the policy area. There has also been a proposal to amend the text, which, according to some members of the committee, is too vague, descriptive, which obscures the priority issues, the key issues. There should also be an assessment every year on the respect of the rights of the child. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Before the birth of the child, from the first moment of conception and later in the childhood and youth years, the care for the child is the first and fundamental test of man's relationship to man. - John Paul II. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u7	Thank you, Madam President. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Dolata will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the information, the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016, which is included in print No 1465. High Izbo, this information contains 700 pages of text. From year to year it is becoming more extensive. Mr. Spokesman's speech took a lesson hour, 45 minutes. And it's worth saying at first what wasn't in that speech. The Ombudsman did not say one sentence to assess the most important government programme aimed at children, families with children, the 500+ programme. [[The Member did not listen, there were at least five sentences.]] I listened very carefully. [[At the committee meeting.]] If it was, it was one sentence without calling this program... [[That is not true, sir.]] ...in this 700-page information, there are several critical sentences that your Ombudsman's expectations have not been met by Parliament, by the government. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Ombudsman does not take into account that nearly 4 million children, nearly 3 million families have benefited from this programme, that to this day more than 25 billion PLN has been spent, that he has benefited from this programme very many, hundreds of thousands of families of many children - let me remind you that in 2015 150 thousand. Multi-child families were under the care of the state, benefited from social welfare, and after the introduction of this programme, only 20,000, which is more than 12% children lived in extreme poverty before the introduction of this programme, and now this percentage has fallen below 1% and is 0.7% - and the spokesperson doesn't say anything about it... [[Because you weren't listening.]] ...and there is even a chapter in this information about the right to decent social conditions... The Ombudsman should be the first to show, from this he should begin his speech, that this right to decent social conditions is now being fulfilled at an unparalleled level. There has never been such support for children in the history of the Republic of Poland... [[Certainly, sir, you want a card, right?]] ...there has never been such a programme in the history of the Republic of Poland and the consequences of this programme... [[What does this have to do with the Ombudsman's business...]] ...they feel millions of Polish families. It disqualifies this information. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] I know that unfortunately, the Sejm only takes note of the Ombudsman's information, we do not vote, but if we vote... [[What a pity...]] ...our club would vote against this information. [[Then we'll reject it.]] I don't accept it if it contains such a gap. This is not a coincidence, because if you have 700 pages of information, it can't be a coincidence. [[And you've read this?]] But what is important is also what is in this information, because reading this information carefully, hard reading, but I read... [[Sure. The Ombudsman doesn't write about caracals either.]] ...you can draw conclusions on how you do your job. [[Good.]] Well, one of the important functions of the Ombudsman is the control activity and the Ombudsman at the beginning, in the middle of his speech and at the end he very often spoke about what control action he had taken against the MOWs, youth educational centres, where in the opinion of the ombudsman penalties are applied that violate the rights of the child. And what are these punishments that violate the rights of the child? Limit phone calls up to 10 minutes a day, ban on schoolchildren leaving the room, forcing them to do their housework. [[Voice from the room: Raising by work.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Spokesperson is opposed to the use of penalties in raising children, and this is a true Copernikian coup in pedagogy, because so far before Mr.Mark Michalak educators, psychologists thought that the most beneficial use of both punishments and prizes was in education. Prizes alone cannot be used and penalties cannot be applied. The application of penalties and rewards must, of course, be consistent; it must be fair; it must be timely; it must simply be reasonable; but it is not possible to use only rewards among educational activities, because the reward strengthens positive behaviour, and the penalty extinguishs negative behaviour. Otherwise, a young man won't grow up. Now, High Izbo, you have to pay attention to the consequences of these actions of your spokesperson, because they concern educational institutions, where difficult young people are found, with educational problems, but like a young man, during adolescence, who is experiencing a phase of rebellion, reads... [[All lies.]] ...the speech of your spokesperson and the criticism of punishment, because the Ombudsman demands disciplinary punishment for teachers and educators, it is this young man who says to himself: a moment, a parent ordered me for punishment to clean up the apartment for a few days, for punishment for a week, to take out the garbage, to take away my cell phone for punishment, and I will turn to the Ombudsman so that these punishments of the parent are forbidden. As a parent, as a father of three children, if someone had told me that I had no opportunity to influence my child as a teacher, and I taught 15 years in school if someone had told me: you cannot punish a child, a young man, I would say this at this moment: you have bound my hands, I am helpless and I will capitulate. What would be the consequences for the educational system if everyone thought like your spokesperson? It would be a real disaster. That is why this information from your spokesperson and your Ombudsman's actions are also extremely harmful. They're mostly bad for their children. Why would a parent, a teacher... [[Voice from the hall: It's pathetic.]] ...the teacher applies punishment? After all, for the sake of this young man, for the sake of the child, he is guided by the welfare of the child. [[What kind of punishment are you talking about?]] The same is true of the child's welfare and reward, because it is the essence of upbringing. [[What kind of punishment?]] [[Send the herb.]] [[Jail.]] High Izbo! The Ombudsman carries out various activities, many of them. They are characterized by selectivity, action. He's not taking chances. As your spokesperson said about the case of those who don't pay alimony, he had the perfect opportunity to publicize it to the whole country in a situation where there was information that the CODE leader didn't pay alimony. And if the spokesperson had said, "I condemn this action, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It would have had a propaganda effect. [[That's it.]] [[But if Mr PiS doesn't pay, then what?]] He'd get a propaganda effect that would affect a lot of those non-paying alimony. If the spokesperson says that children shouldn't be used in advertising, then if it really was on his mind, what would he do? In a situation where the Platform used the child in spots promoting this protest march, if he had acted and said, "You mustn't. I am from this camp, but I protest against these actions - this [[♪ The bell ♪]] It would have a sensational effect. In conclusion, the Ombudsman does not understand what the rights of the child are. He's doing his job in the wrong way. I have no illusions that your spokesperson will change. Mr. Spokesman is not going to change because he's connected with the current opposition, the salon, he's a man of certain views. [[You already have your Misiewicz.]] But one thing raises the hope - that only one more year's term and there will be another, better spokesperson. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Misiewicz?]] [[The teletubs' bags will come back again, he's got a pink bag.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u9	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Alicia Chybicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen! Honestly, I'm gonna say something quite different than my previous speaker said. I believe that, first of all, the report presented by the Ombudsman deserves to be accepted as much as possible, not only to be accepted, but also to be commended. I'll talk about the numbers in a minute. Anyway, in front of the thin team the child's spokesperson runs, there's a lot of it. I'm sure this team works hard and the spokesperson himself works hard. I would like to say that in Poland we currently have more than 7 million children aged 0 and 18. The situation of these children is very different, because not all, as you know, Mr Potter, are getting 500+. There are those that are in a very, very difficult situation, only 500+ do not get. Turning to numbers, because time is limited, I would like to say that the information about the activity of the Ombudsman, as has already been mentioned here, is a very extensive position, has over 600 pages. To be honest, reading this was a real challenge for me. It raises dozens of issues, hundreds of problems, which include thousands of individual cases. I don't think any previous spokesperson worked that hard, and he hasn't done so many things. Can the Ombudsman really be accounted for for for any harm that a Polish child suffers, for any unfinished or unfinished business? Of course not. The Ombudsperson's Act gave him powers of warning, signalling and initiative. It has given competence to submit assessments and proposals to the competent authorities, organisations and institutions for the effective protection of the rights and interests of the child. The Ombudsman may also request the competent authorities to take a legislative initiative or to issue or amend other acts. And that's what he does. In 2016, a total of 46 213 cases were received by the Ombudsman's Office, which is nearly four and a half times more than was already mentioned in 2008, when Minister Marek Michalak took up the role of Ombudsman. Since 2013, the number of interventions undertaken by the Ombudsman has remained approximately similar. The Ombudsman addressed a total of 154 general speeches to ministers, bodies or institutions. In 295 cases, he considered that there was a risk of child welfare in ongoing legal proceedings. Therefore, using his statutory powers, he has taken part in legal proceedings and has participated in them on the rights of the prosecutor. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities is the follow-up of signals of irregularities as well as on his own initiative. In 2016, a total of 217 cases were examined by the Ombudsman on the spot. Checks were carried out, inter alia. in foster care facilities, youth educational centres, educational institutions, medical centres and rest facilities for children and young people. In 2016, the Ombudsman issued opinions on 46 different draft normative acts, and as part of the dissemination of the rights of the child last year the Ombudsman hosted children and young people in his office, met with them in various cities of Poland, among others. in schools, kindergartens, hospitals, rest facilities and nursing facilities. In total 57 thousand attended the meetings. children and young people, and each participant finally received a set of materials promoting the rights of the child and informing about the Children's Call for Trust in the Ombudsman. Children really use these materials on a daily basis. The honorary patronage of the Ombudsman was covered by 275 events and initiatives organised, among others. by non-governmental organisations, scientific institutions and public and local authorities. The Ombudsman's information covered, in accordance with the provisions of the Act, five main areas of action to defend the rights of the youngest citizens of the Republic. In 2016, 5389 cases related to the right to life and health were brought to the Ombudsman and 23 596 cases relating to the exercise of the right of the child to raise in the family; 3831 cases referred to the right of the child to decent social conditions; 6980 cases related to the exercise of the right of the child to learn; 4972 cases related to the right to protect against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment. These numbers, ladies and gentlemen, speak for themselves. There are a lot of things and, as I said at the beginning, a thin team led by a spokesperson for the rights of the child has worked hard to get them all taken care of. As a person who has been working with children for 42 years, I can say that the help of the Ombudsman in many situations is simply priceless. I did not meet in the years in which he fulfilled his office, including in 2016, so that there was no response or response to any notification was incorrect. The most important part of the information of the Ombudsman was comments about the state of compliance with the rights of the child in our country, in Poland. The Minister drew attention to the Ombudsman's request in 2016 to improve the protection of the rights of the youngest citizens, concerning issues such as dental care for children - this is a time bomb: if this is not done in a systemic way, it results in many other diseases and is very unpleasant for children themselves, but also exposes the state budget to unnecessary costs, because the costs of securing dental care are certainly less than the costs of later treatment of numerous diseases - financing medical benefits; vaccination; rare diseases; access of children to medicines without prescription; child maintenance; disciplinary action against teachers; subsidy to youth educational centres; daily support facilities; maintenance of the legal line 500+; support of families of many children or criminal protection of minors. You have to admit, if you... I am convinced that you all know the Code of the Rights of the Child. The Ombudsman of the rights of the child, from the moment the child is born, protects them until they are 18 years old. In fact, these 680 pages of the report in one year are a great wealth in protecting the rights of the child, starting with what is most important for the child, i.e. It's because the baby's a little man. It's not a being that's owned by anyone. A child is not a parent's property. Not only must his parents secure a decent life, care for his health, care for his education, but he must not in any way violate his physical integrity. He must comply with the laws that apply to every person in Poland. That's what a child's rights attorney does very well. The fact that children must not be beaten by law in Poland at the moment is a huge achievement, not in 2016, but really a big achievement. I think it would be desirable for the Ombudsman of the rights of the child not only to be here this year, sir, but much longer, because the children in Poland... [[It will be.]] [[The spokesperson will.]] But I think specifically of Mr. Mark Michalak, because the children love him, not just the position of the child's attorney: his, his team, his way of doing things. Given how you personally treat your mission, and its contribution to improving the quality of life of children in Poland, which is really huge, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I recommend accepting information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016. Like at school, it should actually be a party, as the kids say: [[♪ The bell ♪]] A six or a lace. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u11	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Skutecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I'm gonna start with a pretty general remark like that. This is quite ridiculous, not the Sejm I went to: the spokesperson of the rights of the child comes out and talks about important things, you can agree with him or not, and then it's completely predictable that someone from the PiS will come out to flog him and someone from the Platform - throw rose petals at him. This is ridiculous. [[That's your assessment.]] That's not how we're supposed to talk about these things. [[Please show us how we should talk.]] As far as the specifics are concerned, from the information you have provided... We had a pretty long discussion on the committee. I'll repeat some thesis. With regard to the October 2008 amendment, in which the Ombudsman was given the power to initiate civil and administrative proceedings and participate in them on the rights of the prosecutor, I have the impression that unfortunately the Minister is too rarely exercising this right to initiate proceedings. Of course, a lot of people are asking the Minister to do so. I know that you often use it, but there is a expectation that you will benefit much more often. As for the thing you are boasting about on page 27 - but today it was also mentioned - that is, your commitment to vaccination. I would like to remind the Minister that your function is called the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child and not the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, which, as far as vaccination is concerned, is of enormous importance. A few days ago, he crossed the streets of Warsaw several thousand - some media say: 10 thousand - march of mothers, families with children who suffered very much from the complications of vaccination. And this whole crowd of people wants to discuss the system of registration of unwanted vaccination reactions, discussions on the vaccination calendar in Poland, which is completely archaic and completely different from those in Europe. [[He's the Minister of Health.]] And now I am. Yeah, it's a question for the child's attorney, does the child's attorney know that... [[The Minister of Health.]] ...that in 4 days, 5 days in Inowroclaw there will be the first loud case in Poland before the court to take away the parental rights of parents who have not decided to immunize their child. There may be an avalanche of such things in a moment. And that is certainly the subject that the Ombudsman of the rights of the child - one child - should take care of. The Ombudsman should defend the rights of every single child. On the other hand, there is a very ugly impression that provokes the question: on which side you stand, Mr. Spokesman: on the side of the child or on the side of the health centre, companies, ministry, etc.? [[And the children who will be infected with infectious diseases, sir?]] Another thing. If we are in medicine, then in 1999 - a long time ago - Poland signed the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in the field of the application of biology and medicine. To this day, Poland has not ratified this document, and it is very important for children. Here's another topic. The issue of parental alienation. Today there is a very significant problem affecting several or more thousands of children each year according to various estimates. And now the only solution or one of the most popular solutions in the world in those countries to which we aspire is alternate care, which appears only twice in your report, on these nearly 700 pages twice. In one place, we read that the Minister entered the case in a situation of conflict between parents and applied for such care, and in the other place we read about alternate care in the context of the Swedish system. And now it seems that in Polish law alternate care is not fully fixed. It is possible, of course, which we know, but it is not as precisely described as we dreamed, right, I think we both are. Didn't the Minister consciously carry out any of the activities he had recently taken, e.g. your colleague, the ombudsman, who called for the inclusion in the codes and, above all, a specific definition of this problem? As far as parental alienation is concerned, your action from some time ago, I am daddy and mom, has not only aroused huge interest in Poland and very positive opinions. I think it was probably the best thing in the world. On the other hand, is the Minister planning further actions of this kind? Because we are all aware that this is on the one hand a legal issue, but on the other hand a much more important issue of awareness of parents, judges, experts. Speaking of experts, February Ub. Whereas standards and methods of opinion have been published by the opinion-based teams of judicial experts, whereas this document, which raises a lot of environments, does not contain a recommended list of diagnostic methods and techniques, which in fact does not exist in Poland, i.e. in the absence of any law, i.e.. No law regulating the profession of psychologist would be very important. And the question is, isn't the Minister here seeing the possibility of lobbying, so I'm going to say most generally, because it really would have to be improved. There's been talk of alimony here, too. This is a problem that has been unsolvable for years. The question is whether these recent legal decisions will eliminate this problem. It doesn't seem like it. The Minister boasts there on p. 139 that one of these alimentaries you heroically tracked down, put in prison. Okay, you had the right, but the question continues to go back to the name of your function: the spokesperson for the rights of the child. How did prison for this particular father improve the situation of this particular child? 'Cause I think that's the key question you need to answer. And, more broadly, how is punishing prison for not paying alimony gonna make these people pay? You have a very interesting project, an interesting idea, positively judged by me, by various environments, concerning maintenance debtors who have obligations to the maintenance fund and in your opinion should be able to work off this debt in social work. Okay, that's a great idea, I applaud, that's the only clipping. The team, which you have appointed with the Ombudsman to deal with, to deal with and deal with the issue of non-alimentation in Poland, deals with the fire, while not looking at the causes of this fire, and among the causes of this fire... Here, too. the judge's environments, but also the father's environments indicate a solution called a maintenance table which, in response to my interpellation, the Ministry of Justice does not assess negatively, takes into account. Maybe it'd be worth it this way? This is a question that deviates from the content of your report, but I am considering whether we should go this way. One last thing, 'cause time's ticking. I asked this at the committee meeting because the problem of parental abductions, especially cross-border kidnappings, whether the problem of cross-border issues at all, the relationship between parents is growing and will grow, and we will not escape it. After Britain's exit from the European Union, it may be even more difficult to solve these issues with almost universal unawareness, ignorance of procedures resulting from the Hague Convention among Polish lawyers, but also judges. It's a burning problem, and he'll be even more smoking. Don't you think the Minister should return to the information you once led for Poles going abroad about cultural and legal differences? This is contained on the pages of the Ombudsman's report, okay, while for several years Muslim districts have appeared and various phenomena have emerged that did not exist at the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Minister think it would be worthwhile to go back to that? Unfortunately, time's up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u13	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Ombudsman's role is unique and extremely responsible because the Ombudsman takes the floor in matters of those who are weakest and most in need of our support and protection. One thing is certain: the spokesperson is not here to issue a card to the government, but it is here to get him to work. [[No.]] The Ombudsman is connected only to one camp: the camp of the rights of the child. This is the only camp the spokesperson is connected to. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Regret.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you want this to be smaller next year, just get to work and do the things that are indicated in it. [[Speak to the spokesperson over there.]] Only in such a way will the Ombudsman's activities be able to focus on other issues as well. And so, the 500+ issue is amazing, every time you criticize the government, one of the Members or government representatives goes out and says: 500+, 500+, 500+. [[Because that's all they have.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 3/4 Polish municipalities do not have a single childcare institution up to the age of 3.3.3/4. There will be no natural growth, the fertility rate will not increase if parents are not able to benefit from childcare institutions under the age of 3 and later from kindergartens. You care so much about your children, so why hasn't the government ratified the Third Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child so far? Why? Why aren't you acting against hate speech? We've filed a bill to expand the catalogue of hate crimes. It was rejected by you. The case of children with special educational needs. You planned - in accordance with the regulation of Minister Zalewska planned - to lock these children in their homes, not to allow them to study at school individually. Summer is coming up, it's probably going to increase, as the previous years show, the number of people using boosters, but you still haven't done anything about it. The Regulation of the Minister for Health of 24 August on the list of new psychoactive substances is still updated but has not been updated and is being consulted. And here I am asking your ombudsman: Wouldn't it be worth taking educational and criminal action on boosters? We have prepared as a modern bill on access to gynecologists and venerologists for minors from the age of 15. If under the law teenagers can have sex, they must be able to have access to an unattended adult doctor, otherwise in most cases they simply will not benefit from such care. The Ombudsman received a lot of cases, more than 46 thousand. 154 general speeches were addressed to the institutions. In 295 cases, the Ombudsman declared his participation in court proceedings. In fact, these numbers are impressive, a lot of things have been done. On the other hand, there is even more to be achieved, and this is also indicated by this obtuse volume, whose size is hindered, I understand, by the Member who was acting on behalf of the PiS. Mr President, access to specialist doctors, underestimation of paediatric procedures, lack of adequate protection of children in specialist psychological care, the issue of young parents - in Poland they account for 3.5% up to 5%, lack of care for such parents, issues of access to gynecologists, anti-hate speech, the issue of drugs, alcohol abuse - well, these issues are very much, so instead of criticizing, it is worth simply following these recommendations. At the previous committee meeting, when we discussed the report, I asked the Minister about issues relating to minors of foreigners. I will also point out these issues in this speech, because the climate of talking about foreigners in Poland is very bad and this is largely also related to the issue of PiS activities and building some kind of fear. First of all, this is a question of access to 500+ benefits. Fortunately - also thanks to the actions of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child - foreigners, refugees who have access to the labour market will also be able to receive a benefit of 500+. The second point concerns the placement of minors in secure centres for foreigners. These are centres to be protected by bars in windows, some wires, fences, which will certainly not affect the development of children, and the children of refugees are also children and we should take care of them as much as we care about Polish children. Perhaps it is worth taking care of the matter as well. The issue of the Terespol-Brest border crossing. This year, this passage was visited by the Ombudsman of children's rights. Chechen families are stationed there, including with children. And the situation of these children stationed in the transition was examined because of the refusal to grant asylum in Poland. So I am asking the question, actually, also to the representatives of the government, to the Members of the PiS, what's next about this situation. And I also mentioned the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is still not adopted. I know you're appealing to the government to accept him. This protocol will contribute to the implementation of the rights of the child guaranteed by the Convention on its Rights and will allow for a new form of institutional childcare and guaranteeing the respect of their rights. So once again, by appealing, I can only thank the Ombudsman and only thank him for his actions. I guess there's more to it than that. There is always more, but with limited resources, with limited human resources, little can be done. If the spokesperson were a legislative authority, the executive could probably do even more, but this is... [[He'd be a dictator then.]] ...the role of the PiS. It is the role of the government to carry this out, to take care of and implement the recommendations of the Ombudsman. Because kids need our care, they can rarely act on their behalf and require special protection. [[For your children, my fellow Member?]] And 500+ will not solve this situation completely. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's rude.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u15	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I will present my position on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. After hearing the Ombudsman's information, I must admit that this almost 700-page report is impressive. I learned from him how much intervention was involved by the Ombudsman. Mr Marek Michalak among others defending young patients, urging them to pay child support, reminding them of their mothers and intervening in matters of alcohol-related families. Of course, it's just a micro-slip of the Ombudsman's activities, which, it seems, is an institution man, someone irreplaceable. I don't want you to feel like I don't appreciate his work. On the contrary, it certainly did not harm Polish children. I wonder, however, how much your work has helped them. How many theoretical speeches have translated into improving not just one child but all children who need help? I'm asking myself more questions. Was Poland less child-friendly in 2015 than Poland in 2016? This would be a real change that I would expect - me and Polish children. It seems that the position presented shows our country like an eldorado, where no one harms children, does not starve, and we do not hear about the tragic fates of the youngest. Formally from the legal side, everything sounds good, but tables and charts are not everything. We're talking about children, our greatest value. It is their life, health and well-being, and not the rules from which there are no derogations, that must determine our daily actions, adoption and compliance with the law. My particular attention was paid to a small number of parties on which the Ombudsman made comments on the observance of the rights of the child. In my opinion, this part should be extended and provide us with full knowledge. This is the part where we should learn about our joint legislative successes and failures. This is where Parliament's recommendations should be, what should be improved and to what extent. I would hope that the next reports will not only provide detailed information on which cases you spoke to and to whom you spoke, but we will have the opportunity to learn about the priorities of the Ombudsman's actions aimed at protecting young Poles. The position presented does not give a clear picture of what is our country's greatest pain in protecting children and taking care of their proper childhood. I am surprised that the description of the Ombudsman's activities does not include the 500+ programme already in operation and its effects on children, especially those of multi-child families. It is a pity that the entire team working with you failed to describe how this programme contributed to the reduction of poverty among the youngest Poles. In conclusion, I would like to say that I still, like last year, believe that in your work and your team I do not lack cooperation with important institutions from the point of view of the child or care about the law, but I still feel that outside the paragraphs, the dry records do not quite see the child. That's what I miss. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u17	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Do any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still wish to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. And the first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz. One and a half minutes to the question. [[Two minutes, Marshal.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! For years, the main activity of the Ombudsman, perhaps one of the main activities of the Ombudsman, is to prevent crimes against children, to prevent violence. We, as parliamentarians, determine the law that helps in these actions of the Ombudsman. I would like you to show us the path, the directions in which Parliament's work should go in the coming years, so that we can protect our children even better. For years, you have been actively promoting the good tradition of the Ombudsman's institutions around the world. It would be good for you - because what you have presented was a report, I know that it is not right for you, and I would like to draw this information out - to show some praise. How many countries in the world have created an institution such as the Ombudsman of the rights of the child? It is beautiful that from Poland there is such a message that thanks to it all over the world children can get such a defender and can get an ambassador who represents them later and defends their rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u19	Thank you. Mr Rajmund Miller.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have heard accusations against you on the part of the PiS Member. In this report, I have devoted my attention to the Advocate General's speeches, because the success of your actions depends on the proper functioning of the authorities of the State. You've been paying attention to irregularities, to things that should be regulated. I found with great concern that 20% Your general speeches have not been answered by the ministries. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So in matters relevant to children, you are accusing the Ombudsman that something is wrong and that the authorities of the state do not react at all. Including, Mr President, also speaking to the Minister of Justice on the execution of alimony, including the Ombudsman's speech to the Minister of Labour on the execution of alimony, i.e. in the defence of children. Answers zero. Speaking to the Foreign Minister... [[Well, well, well.]] ...on defending the interests of Polish children abroad, to the Minister of Justice on the enforcement of child support from parents who have left and are currently abroad. There's more to it than that. Consider: 20% General speeches, i.e. not all of the Ombudsman's action, but those most important speeches to the authorities of the State, have not received any interest at all. I also regret that there was no reply from the President of the Republic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more question, Mr. Spokesman. What's your position because we talked about vaccinations against mandatory vaccinations of children? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u21	Thank you. Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u22	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I get to the point, there is one point to Mr Dolata's very critical speech. And why is it that your speech does not contain a word of condemnation for Members of your club who publicly call for the use of physical punishments against children and approve of these punishments? Why doesn't it outrage you, you didn't mention, criticize an important church hierarch who blamed children for pedophilia? Are you not disturbed by the Members and Councillors of the PiS who beat their spouses? Is that an example for the children, sir? [[Applause]] [[It's a shocking scale. And in the PO environment?]] The face of the child has no political face, and the role of every political party is to always have a smile on the face of the child. I thank the Minister for his sensitivity, for his commitment, as well as a big word of appreciation to your team, which I often work with. You are worthy guardians of the works that Janusz Korczak, Professor Grzegorzewska and Irena Sendlerów started in Poland. And a brief question for the Minister. Education reform is about to enter into force. During your work on the bill, you often made comments that the pace of these works makes it impossible to analyze accurately. I would like to ask if and possibly what the Minister fears after the reform comes into force. I'm not a fan of the idea that kids don't have a voice. I am therefore pleased that you are seeing thousands of Polish children. What are the most frequently identified problems and what is the most pressing issue in their assessment [[♪ The bell ♪]] To uphold their rights? And one last question. A few years ago, we initiated a joint action on the rescue of Polish spas for children. I would like to ask if the problems discussed were solved and how the situation of sanatorium treatment of Polish children is presented today. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u23	Thank you. Mrs Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very good, Mr. Spokesman. I wanted to ask you the following questions. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Since I am closer to the body of a shirt, and I am caring for sick children, I wanted to ask you about the assessment of the pediatric benefits at which stage this is and what you think the difference should be, because we, working in hospitals every day, know that these benefits are dramatically underestimated and that this often generates savings made by hospital directors, including small patients. The second thing I wanted to ask you is the dental care you mentioned in the report. Also a little bit on this subject. I told you. How do you practically imagine it, and if there was any response from the Ministry of Health to both of these problems besides the response from the institution that valued the benefits? The same applies to dental care, which is actually a very important problem. The third thing I wanted to ask, which is very painful, not in Cape Hope, which I have the privilege of driving, because we have 25 hotel rooms for parents and every parent has a place to sleep next door. [[♪ The bell ♪]] child: What about parents in hospital wards? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u25	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Minister! I wanted to thank you for this comprehensive report, because the truth is that many people don't even realize how much effort, how much work, how much action you take on different fronts, on different levels. Indeed, this 500+ you have also mentioned in this report, and thank you for that, but they are willing to take your place. They're already waiting to sit in your chair today, but they don't think about your competence or your hard work. But let's get to the questions. In the section entitled "Remarks on the state of the child's rights," you make demands on the government side and point to disturbing phenomena that threaten the implementation of individual rights of the child. You are making this clear in this report. The number of these comments leads to the conclusion that the rights of the child are not fully respected in Poland, and the government does so with a great deal of reserve and does not take these matters. That's one thing. I'd like to know how you see it. And second question. After all, on your initiative, too, in cooperation with the President, who comes from Law and Justice, a bill has emerged to tighten the penalty for the most serious crimes against children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project will soon enter into force. Tell me what the most important effects you expect after this project enters into force, what it will change in children's lives and whether it will improve with regard to children's rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u27	Thank you. I ask Mr Józef Lassota to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to thank the Minister and the whole team for this contribution. Don't worry about the part about the pathetic political assessment of the representative of the governing party. It's their will, it's their party disposition. I would like to ask you three things that are presented in this report. This information shows that a number of cases are related to the right of a child to be brought up in the family. That is indeed the main message. The baby should be in the family. Is there a crisis in family life today in your opinion? What children's rights are most often violated in this category? What other options do you see regarding this issue? Secondly, for several years in Poland there has been a law on supporting family and foster care. How do you feel about that? Has she checked out, or are there still problems to be solved? What are the problems? Of course, this is linked to the adoption process, which is quite complicated. And the third case. The current criminal rules do not provide for the responsibility of the organisers of pornographic presentations involving minors and children. I have spoken to the Minister of Justice on several occasions in this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Could you support these actions so that the Minister can lean on this important issue? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u29	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Kostusia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u30	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Recently, the Sejm passed a law that could quickly be sentenced to a maintenance debtor's prison. I would like to ask if, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, this will solve the problem of non-alimentation in the case of children? Secondly, last year, the Ombudsman took a three-fold negative stance on what is happening to education reform. You were critical of the pace, the scope, the way in which this unnecessary reform was implemented. How are you today assessing the current effects of the reform? How do you feel about this reform in the context of the voices of children, the voices of parents, everything that has affected you in this regard? What do you think will be the long-term impact of this unnecessary reform? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u31	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ursula Augustyn. [[There is no Member.]] There is no Member. In that case, Mrs Bożena Kaminska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u32	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! From this point on, I would like to thank you very warmly for this enormous commitment, with 46,000 in mind. cases last year, i.e. Nearly 140 cases a day to consider and lean over. Thank you very much for your commitment, for your participation in all interventions, especially in the Podlasie Voivodeship, Suwałszczyzna, because such also took place. I would also like to thank the entire team, which is small, which not only provides help to children, but also psychological assistance to families who need this help, which often do not have it from whom to receive it, are often left to themselves. I would also like to address the words of the rapporteur in law and justice. Mr President, I am very sorry that you are politicising everything, even events related to children. On 4 June, the day of the child was celebrated in Suwałki. That's where you politicized it. Uniform services, which have been involved for several years, have been removed, have been banned from participating in this event. Even such events for children are political. I have questions for the Minister. Do we have a crisis of family life in Poland's opinion of the Ombudsman? What children's rights are most often violated in this category of cases? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u33	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u34	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Youth educational centers were also included among the institutions that were subject to control last year. The scale of irregularities indicated in the report is very high. They dealt with issues such as improper educational work, the use of penalties that violate the rights of the child, obstruction of contact with parents, food shortages, too poor leisure time offer. Some of these institutions, High Izbo, are non-public institutions whose main purpose, it seems, is to attract as much money as possible to the accounts of the leading bodies, using a mental shortcut, the owners of such youth educational centres. Therefore, all kinds of costs are cut, so that these profits are as high as possible. I have a question: What consequences have been drawn towards institutions where such a scale of irregularities has been found? Have you been informed that there are reports that there are situations where there are false documentation in such facilities that these recommendations, which are specified in individual educational and therapeutic programmes, are completely unfulfilled, because there are not enough staff, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but are they entered in the journals of classes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u35	Thank you. And Mrs Lydia Burzyńska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened very carefully to both the report presented by your Ombudsman during the meeting of the Education Committee and today's debate and questions, and I agree with you from the Civic Platform that the child's face is not political. I will go even further - all actions should be directed towards fulfilling the words of St. John Paul II that the child's face should always have a smile. [[I said it.]] I have one question for the Ombudsman because I did not see this information either in your statement or in this obstinate report presented to all of us. What kind of action do you take to mitigate such a phenomenon... I know that the concept of Euro-Earth is not positive, but this is the case. The studies were carried out in 2008, in 2014, and it is clear from them that the problem of these abandoned children, especially after Poland's accession to the European Union, occurs. Happiness is with those children who are taken care of by one parent, but worse if they are taken care of by their grandparents or other relatives. And the child as a man, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who at the stage of development exploits certain weaknesses, sees that this longing for a parent and a caring disability causes that he can afford certain shortcomings. Tell me, because this information is missing, what action is being taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u37	Thank you. And Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Conflicted parents often take their children away from each other, which ends with great drama, depression, anxiety, to the point where children are unable to go to school. I know these specific cases. The state of the child is that going to school under duress clearly threatens the health of the child. In such a situation, it is indicated by a psychologist who confirms this, home treatment. Unfortunately, the mayor refuses to finance domestic treatment, for which reasons it is known - austerity. In such a situation, is the Ombudsman taking action to support the child? That's one thing. We are also dealing with the phenomenon that when a child is tiny and needs a really big job, one of the parents is involved in his upbringing. But when the child is already a few years old, the second parent, in a good material situation, in short, bribes the child, offering him everything he wants, and the child, which has so far been emotionally bound e.g. with her mother, she's just being lied to, she's being manipulated, and so on. And that's where the drama happens. Do you intervene in such a situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is also the question of children from Polish families who are being received abroad. We know that Polish courts have difficulty taking a stand on this matter, for example because documents are provided in foreign languages. Does the Ombudsman cooperate with the Minister of Justice in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u39	Thank you kindly. And please take the floor of Mr Jan Mosiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with one of my previous speakers, a Member of the Civic Platform, that it is reprehensible to use violence against women. There's no difference between us here. On the other hand, you will also agree with me that divorces are also a trauma to children, and unfortunately your environment has a problem with it... [[No, no, I think we're gonna start exchanging your names and names.]] ...which you probably don't pay attention to. Speaking of which, it's a trauma to the kids. I have questions for your spokesperson. Firstly, is it true that thanks to the social policy of the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło has improved the standard of living of children, especially in families of many children? Was this affected not only by the 500+ programme but also by the increase in the minimum wage, the minimum hourly rate and the like? And secondly, will the Ombudsman take action to explain that one of the MEPs, Mrs Augustynowska, as the media report, wanted to use children for political purposes to disrupt the children's and young people's parliament's deliberations? These are shameful and extremely irresponsible actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u41	Mrs Magdalena Kochan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u42	Thank you very much, Marshal. 46,000. cases a year, over 46,000, that means 3,000. cases per month, with a 20-day working month, 12 general speeches per year. If anybody puts these numbers together for just a second, they won't judge badly the work of the Child Rights Officer and the 72-person team they run. Minister, great appreciation, congratulations and thanks for this great work. And I find Mr Dolata's speech simply obscene, Mr Dolata. What is more, you have shown all your previous students that this speaker can be used as a disgusting politician instead of a fair and honest policy. This is my assessment of your speech. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I wanted to ask the Minister about something I'm very proud of. That is, the Year of Janusz Korczak you used for absolute, universal propaganda concerning this magnificent... And I am talking about propaganda in a good sense, about promotion, it can be better called, Polish pedagogical thought and Janusz Korczak. I'm sure your experience will benefit from this in a moment's time in terms of your competence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland in the United Nations, its Security Council. My question is: Are you and how are you going to promote Mrs Irena Sendler in 2018? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u43	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question, such as my constant question, concerns the ability of children to do legal work, especially children after the age of 13. As we know, the situation of these children is not good, the courts rarely benefit, institutions rarely benefit from legal opportunities. The second question, on the other hand, concerns the particular case of Mrs Marlena Jastrzębska, but I would like you to elaborate on this issue. It is the Hague Convention and the results of this Hague Convention. How? It affects our rights, our children's rights, and what is it generally, I'll say rudely, the balance sheet of the Hague Convention? I also wanted to point out that in countries such as: Denmark very often takes parental rights away from parents, mother, father to force them [[♪ The bell ♪]] to appear in court. In Poland, on the other hand, these judgments are extended, the jurisdiction covers the territory of Poland. How does it look, Minister? Thank you very much. Sorry, Marshal, for the extension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u45	You're welcome. Mr Józef Brynus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The problem I want to present is general, although it is particularly present in the district of Wadowice, in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. It concerns the fact that parents of children with autism and Asperger syndrome are trying to enforce effectively the consequences of the 2002 regulation of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on criteria for the assessment of disability in persons under the age of 16. The problem is that after obtaining a judgment for a limited period of time on the occasion of the subsequent judgment, paragraph 7 of that disability ruling is taken away from parents of children with such dysfunctions. As a result, the child loses the possibility of further rehabilitation and the parents lose their livelihood and have additionally difficult access to the labour market. In addition, a child deprived of systematic care of a parent is retreating. Decisions of the district committee on Disability rulings on receipt of paragraph 7 are maintained by the provincial committees, but labour courts restore this point to parents. However, during the administrative procedure, the above mentioned negative effects occur. Such practice of district and voivodship committees was behind the previous governing team and is unfortunately now, perhaps, a force of momentum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Prosecutor of the Rights of the Child, what have you done and done in this case to change the practice of the committee? After all, the practice of the committee on the Judgments have serious social, health and even economic consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u47	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Way of Youth in the Gallery! I have a question about the intervention. She was with Mr Paweł Kukiz, Mrs Małgorzata Jarecka-Plowny, asking for help in solving the case, in getting the children back, as she put it. Father held the children in the basement, abused them, and this is probably a matter known to your spokesperson. I'd like to know what this situation is like today. Ladies and gentlemen, my motto: what we give to children and young people, they will give us back. As a bachelor of the Order of Smile, as a Friend of the Street Children - and there are other decorations I have regarding the action for children - I know the problem and I can say that today I found out... 46,000. intervention, 46,000. parents, you can say, abusers, because they're the oppressors for me, if they treat children like that, the greatest treasure for adults, for parents. I'm a father, a grandfather, and for me, the greatest treasure is a child or a granddaughter now. Double love - granddaughters, as I say. My daughter's daughter is a double love, that's what you have to enjoy. I think they're hurting the children of sick people, they've got something in that head, some line broke. We can't let that happen, and we need to isolate them. Worst of all, this is what our children suffer most. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's our future, that's our hope. We must thank, congratulate the Minister and the whole team for fighting. I can't handle this, so many things about children. All I can say is thank you for that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u49	Thank you, sir. I would like the floor of Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much, Minister, you, to the whole team for their very hard work. I didn't have to read that document because I know what kind of work you do every day. It is impossible to refer to Mr Dolata's speech, which was politicized, and, frankly, outrageous. On the other hand, I would like to say that Mr Dolata's speech on the one hand is terrifying, because I imagine what the next spokesperson of the rights of the child will be like, and this will be another segment of your activity insanely politicized, but very beautifully Mr Dolata has exposed what is your great asset, Minister, or high culture. This high culture is also a huge advantage of your work with children, the work of the whole team. I would like to ask, because here we have a question about 500+, how do you see the failure to provide part-time families, where the financial situation is very difficult. Do you observe polarisation between these multi-child families, where resources have emerged, very well and yet very low income, where there is no money, and on the other hand there is a risk of [[♪ The bell ♪]] loss of maintenance fund since January 2018 when we will consider... Just one more thing, Marshal. I want to ask you, Minister, because I've never noticed, I haven't read about it, although I think there's some information about the ranking of trust in your office. If that's what they are... Because the ranking of social trust is important, not these political diwags. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u51	Thank you, Member. Before I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to speak, I would like to inform the High House that a very large group of young people and children are listening to our deliberations today. If you don't mind, at least a few of these groups will welcome you. Well, they listen to our discussions of children from the Primary School in Płonn, that is the Golubsko-Dobrzyński district, Kuyavian-Pomorskie Voivodeship. Earlier, it was my disregard, for which I apologise to Mr Nobletka, there were students from the Primary School to them. Heroes of Secret Teaching in Dean's. We are also listened to by the winners of various competitions for middle school students, including the Constitutional Competition on 3 May from the Sądeckie and Gorlicka land, along with the guardians who are here at the invitation of Mrs Barbara Bartus. Welcome. [[Applause]] I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u52	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The child is the most beautiful gift for family and nation - these are the words of St. John Paul II. This precious gift we adults have to protect at all costs. Information about the activities of the Ombudsman in 2016 is a comprehensive document, although comments about the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland occupy little space in it, unfortunately. One of the areas described is the child's right to protect against abuse, demoralisation and other mistreatment. However, we do not find here information about the Ombudsman's actions in the context of the participation of children in advertising, the content of which entangles them in politics. I'm gonna bring up a controversial Civil Platform spot here... [[Not controversial at all.]] ...promoting the march of freedom, calling for political manifestation, with the main role of a few-year-old girl. I have a question for the Ombudsman: What is your attitude towards the whole problem, as in this particular case? Did you intervene? If so, what was their number and if not, are you going to take it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The function of the Ombudsman is very difficult, it is required to know and solve the problems that all departments, all ministries, and on the other hand it is SOS, concrete, practical actions here, now and immediately. Therefore, everything cannot be corrected, but very many, huge numbers of these actions are being successfully dealt with. That deserves to be thanked. My one question will be general and the other one will be detailed. This generally applies to children taken from their parents in the countries of emigration. The phenomenon is very serious and undiagnosed. It is diagnosed because the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad has dealt with it on several occasions. We're getting information that this is a marginal problem, and it's huge. Mr. Spokesman, what is your knowledge about this, your experience and your actions? The second question is specific. What is the possibility and what are the actions to make children who are given up for adoption... Children who are given up for adoption will have their destiny assured, and they will find parents who will give them love. The situation of a child whose parents refuse to give up for adoption is much more difficult, sometimes with hope, I heard such statements, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause when I'm old, he'll take care of me. I'm having second thoughts about that. I'm almost done, Marshal. Are any educational activities being taken so that parents who do not want to take care of children and do not want to direct them simultaneously, give them the opportunity to adopt... These kids go to the children's homes, and this is where the drama begins so horrible that it's hard to even talk about it. The question, then, Mr. Spokesman: Are you taking action? Are there any ideas that will educate parents, make them realize that if you don't want to be alone, I'm not talking about a situation where I can't raise a child so that I can give them up so that someone else can raise them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u55	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Moskal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Thank you to all those who have done anything to make the children better, including I thank the Ombudsman, all the employees under your spokesperson. And I think it's probably the most important thing for all of us to see the baby, to see his problems, to help him, to support him. On the other hand, like every official, it is to act on the basis and within the limits of the law in a responsible and competent manner. And in this context, I have a question: How many interventions among the tens of thousands of interventions that you have taken were made on the basis of untested anonymous information and later activities based on this have people, teachers, parents, school directors been harmed? Recently - I will give you an example - a certain action has been taken by the Ombudsman. The information that the child was harmed has not been verified, but the mechanism has been put in place to treat the teacher who allegedly violated the rights of the child properly. I heard in the cafeteria somewhere. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He reacted badly, forced the child. This mechanism was launched, the entire school environment was placed under the hungarian school curatorium. Of course, control proved that there was no such thing. There were certain mechanisms at school that gave everyone an opportunity and a chance. Mr. Spokesman, you can't do that. Every anonymous person has to be checked. You can't hurt people when there are untested attacks, you use them, and the moral factor is still moving in. I've written to your spokesperson recently and I expect... Of course, the child's well-being is important, but if he's untested by anonymous means, he can't be harmed by teachers, parents, or management. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u57	Thank you, sir. In this we have exhausted the list of members of the vote. That's why I'm gonna ask you to take the floor of your spokesperson. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u58	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, before you leave, I would like to thank you very much for this in-depth analysis of this material, the extensive material, because we are dealing with many things, many levels, many difficult situations for children. This document is intended to illustrate the Ombudsman's activities throughout the reporting year. An integral part of this document is the observation of the state of compliance with the rights of the child. There were voices that these comments were less than the rest of the document. Yeah, but there's a lot of them listed on 40 pages, a lot of them. This is to be done, actually, all hands on deck. There is a great deal of work to be done to improve the situation of children. But please note - because there were comments that the Ombudsman did not notice what was good - that he had just noticed. The entire chapter of the comments begins with positive information about what has been done, which demands have been fulfilled, which are no longer valid. There is also talk of witnessing, and also in the content. Therefore, I do not accept this comment as a legitimate comment only as a political remark. But I understand that's how you work here. I'm not a politician. I didn't come here from politics. I've come to claim children. I'm reclaiming myself today, reclaiming myself yesterday, the day before yesterday, and nine years ago, as I took office. And with my head lifted up, sir, I will continue to exhort myself. Because that's the role of the spokesperson. I have agreed to this, here I have sworn twice in front of the House, and I am glad that these young people, whose actions are directed, their parents, their carers see it. Because this information gives me the wind, my team of people, who, on a daily basis, are very hard, not counting the hours of work, to carry out these huge tasks. And you've noticed there's a lot of them. As far as questions go, I'll try one at a time. If I miss anything, as always, I'll try to get in writing later, send in information. But I'll try to answer what's been said here. Some of the questions were repeated, asked at the meeting of the Joint Committees and answered them there. Regarding the control of MOWs, about the information that is in the post-control analysis, I must say that I had a long talk about this with professors of rehabilitation, with Prof. Konopczyński recently, who congratulated such accusations. He said that this was a confirmation that the Ombudsman had recognized the subject well, that he had gone in the right direction and made the right recommendation. This is a specialist, very respected in the environment. I think it's worth a bite to work with the kids. I wouldn't want children, like in the previous centuries, to go back to the level of the subject, so that they always feel that it's only adults who are right, and that it's back to our reality that they say, "Children and fish don't have voices." We evolutionaryly, perhaps a little revolutionaryly, but more evolutionaryly, have come to this stage in which we are, to the stage not only of thinking, but also of thinking with the heart, of understanding the other man. Here John Paul was quoted many times today II. He's the one who's been begging so hard for the dignity of children, for the subjectivity of children, for the adult not to look down on the child, but to look down on them from the right level. It is worth quoting John Paul II and other thinkers when it comes to children, but it is also worth to bite into this thinking and apply it every day, because then it gives such a feeling that we really change this world and that we change it for the benefit of the youngest. However, I try to draw from each and every critical, and this positive, statements from what is in common. That's our job. Kids don't have a political face, political legitimacy, they're not assigned to one or the other group, and that's why, when we talk about them, let's try to speak that way in Korczakovsk, looking at their insides, at their needs, at their laws developed today, laws in which Poland has huge, huge merits, because it is in our country that the thought of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is born that our country has pushed through in the United Nations. And today we are the ones who are called the motherland of the rights of the child. It's a commendation, but it's a commitment, too. Therefore, today - here also a few questions - I am asking for the third protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's something we're committed to. It's not just an expression of goodwill, we're obliged to continue, to show you the right way, the right way... Here a question was asked about the institutions of the Ombudsman, which arose on the basis of Polish experiences with my participation, when I was the head of the European Network of Ombudsmen of Children's Rights. Yes, these are Latvia, Estonia, Italy, Ukraine, France and now Bulgaria and Romania. There are more things going on here, following our example. And it's also worth sharing, because, perhaps, there - we can't - from here - someone will claim these children. Maybe I can fight something. Estonia now introduces, like Poland, a ban on hitting children. It's also something that should give us a sense of responsibility, but also pride, I think, about it. What are the ways in which children can be better protected from violence? What should we do? As far as violence is concerned, we've done a lot, and we really need to be clear. All the indicators for the violence investigation, and the declarative... After all, the level of consent to violence in our country has fallen by 32% over the past nine years. - was 78%. It's still very high, but we finally have a downward trend, and we haven't. If we take into account the police statistics, these hard data, which refers to the blue cards assumed for child violence, see that there were almost 50,000 in 2008. These cards, and last year - 20,000, and more services however assume them. So something happened here, too. When it comes to these hardest forms of violence against children: killing, abandoning or leaving children at risk of their lives, their numbers are falling avalanchely. Although you can't say it's so great, because if there's one such case, it's not great and you have to work on it, but the trend has been reversed. What's ahead of us? The Penal Code is now in force. I am very grateful to the President that he accepted this project, that he had submitted it, that it had led to its adoption. Already today, those who do not respond will be held accountable not only morally but also legally. As far as punishment is concerned, today's child's body damage is no longer treated as TV theft, burglary and theft. That's not the penalty ceiling. And that's the right direction. But there's still a challenge ahead of us. I asked the Prime Minister to start working on a national strategy to fight violence against children. And I think it's important to describe, add, indicate who else can. Because I am here, of course - I am trying - to answer all the questions asked, but I am aware that you are also aware that I am neither a legislative authority nor an executive body. My role is to identify areas that need to be sealed, changed, refined, helped. But the fact that the spokesperson has been presenting ready-made legislation for some time with his humble team, writing drafts of legislative amendments, is only to improve it to speed things up, but I don't have this initiative. It's also worth noting that we're going out a little bit, that is, very much, beyond the framework that the bill defines, but it's for the good of the children. I am already aware that when I present a ready document, although not everything we are able to work with us, then this process may be moving a little faster. The honourable Member noted here that there are non-answered general speeches. And that's sad because it doesn't build a good relationship. I must say, this is the first year in which there is no such percentage of these answers. I hope that they will come after all, even though the bill has 30 days, maybe someone will react to it after today's debate. There are, in fact, such appearances, e.g. these opinions addressed to Parliament regarding specific documents for which I do not expect an answer. I expect you to analyze this and implement it best. But when I ask the resort something, it would be good to give the answer one way or the other. And I also read this phenomenon with anxiety, i.e. It's some kind of novel in reality. As far as the position on vaccination of children is concerned, it is here in several places that I stand in such a position that experts should speak on matters in which they can speak. I think the best person here today would be Professor Chybick, who probably knows the most about this subject from all of us. I trust those people who know what they're doing. But the baby has a right to recover. Of course, there are cases where the doctor himself says you can't inoculate this child, but the doctor says so. We shouldn't make decisions from the top, administrative, official, because we could do some damage. Recently, in public space it has been very irresponsiblely described and inserted - today also, not in this case, but in another - in the mouth of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman did not in any situation encourage, encourage, restrict, deprive parents who do not vaccinate their children anywhere. The Ombudsman was only asked for a legal interpretation of the situation. Today he presented such an interpretation. And not only in this case, but in any other case, when information comes to the family court, the court is required to check this information - to exclude or confirm and take protective action. It can be done by an institution, it can be done by a natural person, even a child can report such information. Therefore, I would very much ask in public discourse, however, to express my opinions, not to interpret others, because it is better to ask, it is better not to go on such a path that something is known better than the author of the words who said them. As far as education reform is concerned, I have first of all drawn attention to the pace, the pace which did not allow examination, the identification of possible consequences, the effects. Come on, it's fast all the time. And that's what's bothering me. Education, like health, is a segment where it works a little bit like a waterbed - if you sit on one side, it's all restless, and we want our kids to be calm so that their right to safety is guaranteed. Hence my comments, and in consultation, and later in the legislative process. What are the most common problems for children themselves? At meetings with children I ask questions about the right of the child for them today most important, which they would like to point out to me, so that I can tell the adult world that it is, as if on their side. In fact, children stopped talking about social rights, and most often indicated, in more than 90% cases, is the right to express its own opinion. That's the problem. As an adult world, unfortunately, we treat children in question and in advance, even breaking the Constitution of the Republic, which clearly speaks of it in the article. 72. I am no longer talking about the Convention on the Rights of the Child or the Family and Care Code, because it also states that in the process of establishing the rights of the child, making decisions on children's matters we are obliged to listen to the child. I think asking children's limited responsibility was also about whether the courts were listening to them. Too rare for me. When we make decisions about children, it would be good to know what they think, and not just those who are 13 years old. You can talk to younger people, too. When it comes to the valuation of pediatric benefits and in general this valuation wider, I say all the time that the revaluation is supposed to be an estimate, so that it doesn't turn out that some smart heads are gonna figure out that there's too much, and it's gonna get even worse so that we don't get to this situation. But today I have information that AOTM will be handling this. The correction factor is in the case of dentistry, that's these actions. Only the professor knows there's a long way to go before they see the light of day before it's implemented. But I, with stubbornness since 2008, in the context of earlier cooperation not as a parliamentarians, but as head of the Polish Paediatric Society, have undertaken these activities, such as: a pediatrician on the first line. And I'm still standing on the position that he should be there. So I observe, analyze, evaluate, and ask my children to have access to my own doctor. I don't underestimate others. Others are certainly very important, very well educated, but the child has the right to his specialist, his child's disease, because the children's disease is a little different to recognize, they move a little faster, the other is treatment, it must be a specialist with children. That's why I keep presenting this position. I wish - I know that no parent pays in the ward, but there are hospitals that, unfortunately, according to the regulations... I have requested that these provisions be amended - but that the parent may be at every hospital free of charge. Because doctors also know today that a parent - but I say: not a parent who only sits with a computer and doesn't take care of a child, it's a parent who reads to a child, holds hands, hugs - helps to heal sometimes more than the various means that are given. That's why he should be. It should not only allow him access, but also encourage him to do so. Thank you, too, for doing this in Wroclaw. The most frequently violated rights of a child. Looking through the prism of what has been written, the analysis of this statistics shows that it is most often the right of the child to be raised in the family. It is in connection with him that the Ombudsman takes the most and most cases, unfortunately cases often qualified as so-called. It's hopeless. Because I wasn't authorized to go into someone's house and solve their problems. I'm well aware of that. I am merely reminding the institutions of the State of this because the Ombudsman upholds the rights of the child by the institutions of the State which should take the right action and not take the right action, so some of these matters affect me. We give advice, encourage mediation, point to places where we can get help, and we ask that we help these people, sometimes at a faster pace. But in fact, the enchanted wand to solve every problem the spokesperson was not equipped. I've already told you about this project with the president. What's gonna change? I think the child's position in the proceedings will change, because notice, today, beating a child is no longer just a crime, that's a crime. It has consequences. The fact that a man has to deal with the consequences of criminality, not just ostracism, is also the next step. We probably wouldn't have been able to do that this year if we hadn't done the child-beating thing in the past, because we also had to prepare... And even before that, as Maria Szopatkowa mentioned, even the public discourse could not be provoked because there was a terrible opposition at first, because people were used to something else. And today, the consent to violence against children is very low. This period with us was nine years old, and in Sweden it was 30 years old. We have done, I think, several times this task that we face to recognize child's humanity, citizenship. What changed the law on family support and foster care? This is a very necessary document, one of the most important documents of our reality. She also changed her mind about what is most important, showed that the priority is the family, if not the biological family, because there are different possibilities, it's a replacement, it's strengthened the foster care system, it's regulated certain issues. There's one thing there, of course it's a topic for the whole lecture, and I know I'm about to go to the end, introduced, for me an extremely important institution, an assistant family. This is the person who is a friend of the house, a competent friend, goes and helps. What's changed? During the first 2 years of operation in the family assistant system, the number of children in foster care decreased by 17,7 thousand. I don't think we need to comment on that. We would like the children not to have to be in institutions so that they can be in families so that someone competent can go there and help, and a lot of other things. This is a very important, necessary document, which is, of course, being analyzed. Some changes are made there, but we also introduced a child's voice, listening to the child, implementing the provisions at a certain time. Unfortunately, many small children, contrary to the Family Support Act, are in institutional custody. This is something we have to deal with. Every year I sound an alarm - the Members who observe these actions know - because these little children should either return to their families or go to adoption, not to wait forever, because we must give them a chance. As long as they have a chance to be in a loving family, adoption is like that, you have to do everything to do it. I'm sure all the antipornographic or anti-use activities of the kids. If you make another one, you can count on support here, an analysis of the Ombudsman, because it is also violence. Let's be aware that we're here to protect our children. I'm not a big fan of putting people in prison for alimony. I would like to make this clear, too. That is why we have been so stubbornly asking the Ombudsman for this system of monitoring outside the prison and enabling people to work, to correct what is disturbed. However, as a last resort, this is decided by the court, not by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, even if he draws attention to something. I wish there wasn't a situation at all that parents weren't together so that there was no situation that they had to pay alimony so that there was no situation that they didn't pay them so they didn't have to do time for it. But this world is so constructed that unfortunately it is not perfect and somewhere these legal scares must take place. But I would like to point out, as far as alimony is concerned, that this threshold has been intact since 2008. So that here, if we're talking about other things, we should pay attention to that too. In my speeches - I hope - I do not harass, but I pay attention to the right resort that this must be done. The lynxes of family life. It's a general slogan. I don't know if this is a crisis. Times are changing, reality is changing, life is moving faster, people are increasingly explaining their lack of spending time with their children with other responsibilities. If in this category we would look at the crisis, then in fact children need their adults more, they need to talk to them more, and not just have instructions given: you have to do, go there, don't do it. I mean, this being together definitely takes more than that. This is some kind of crisis about time spent on children. Here I support all activities, alongside those that I initiate: and schools for parents, and raising parental competence. We're meeting, me and my team of advisors, my associates, with people who want to make things better. We spent how to love a child. A child in the family of Janusz Korczak. If you have a need to receive this book or pass it on to someone, the spokesman will issue it so that it will go into the world and that this spirit of Korchakovsky may be... All the libraries have been provided with it. There are these, maybe not literal, but nevertheless directional clues showing how to be a good man, an adult in the children's world. I'm sure it's worth paying attention to. Here was a question about inspections of MOWs, public, non-public. You have to control them all, they all have to be supervised. Wherever there are irregularities, you have to eliminate these irregularities, and if they are guilty, you have to punish them, because that is the order of things. But I think that these ombudsman checks, which stimulate curators' checks, because they take them there on an ongoing basis, but also the direct ones, are very well assessed. For example, yesterday's letter from the Minister of National Education requesting that another youth education centre be checked. The Minister wants to rely on this opinion, which the Ombudsman will issue in further action; this is not a centre that I have so far controlled. I think you have to pay attention to any plane where the child's well-being can be compromised. When someone tells me that the punishment for insubordination can be to limit family contact - because that was said - I have to say that it is sad, because we would like these children to be able to return to their families to strengthen these activities by strengthening their family relationships as well. I'll do it according to rehabilitation regulations, pedagogy... Trust me, I'm not the only specialist. in this area. I know what I'm doing, but I also benefit from the help of wise people who stand behind me free of charge and support me in every possible situation in this area. The subject of Euro-Earth, in quotes - I don't like that phrase either, but it's a key word. These studies were carried out in 2008, in 2014 on behalf of the Ombudsman. It was the Ombudsman who drew attention to this issue, also taking action to stimulate individual ministries, paying attention to the problem. Research in 2014 showed that this phenomenon slightly decreased by a few percent compared to 2008. As far as last year is concerned, I must say to you, Madam President, that not one single issue in this regard has been affected by a request for the intervention of the Ombudsman. But we noticed - again through our own observations - that more and more parents, when they decide to leave, take the child away. It's just that this problem can be less obvious in our country... 'Cause, you know, like... We had such a year that entire units of children's homes were filled with children whose parents went abroad for a living. It was very disturbing. But if it's necessary, if there's more information, I'll also deliver it. Now let me get this straight. The Member spoke about home treatment. I don't really know if it's... There is no Member. Then I'll try to answer it later, 'cause I'd like to ask. As far as the whole field of action abroad is concerned, you know that there are very limited possibilities here. I mean, I have great authority as a spokesperson for the rights of the child. I say, big, because I don't think, certainly, the biggest of all child rights advocates in the world. Recently, UNICEF has pointed out that Poland has equipped its spokesman as best as possible by placing him in the Constitution. But these are powers in Poland. I can only go abroad through our diplomatic service, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or through the Central Authority, the Minister of Justice... In those countries where there is a spokesperson for the rights of the child, I ask him to take action, but sometimes I get an answer: I would very much like to explain this matter if I had the skills of a Polish spokesman. That's the answer I got the other day from Norway. This Ombudsman is not in a position to investigate an individual case. See what the value of being able to audit, analyze, pass through these judicial documents in our reality is. But that doesn't mean we're not taking action. We provide information, legal support, and we try to draw attention to the problem. This is dedicated to the whole new chapter in this information. I think it's quite synthetically collected there. Does the Ombudsman cooperate with MS in this regard? Yes, I'm cooperating because this is the central authority and if action is being taken, it's mostly by the MS and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Is it true that the children's standard of living has improved? That's how you left it here... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Children in families of many children. Yeah, but I said it, even recalling the GUS data. Very clear. If it didn't sound like it, 'cause... But it's written in that information, and I said it before. As for the children of single parents or single parents... Here we still have some work to do and the comments I made during the adoption of this law are still valid when it comes to children with disabilities, those at the age of 16 and 18, changing the threshold to the first child, a child learning or slightly above this threshold. This offer of gold for gold, already developed in our system, is still valid and this is a good proposal. I hope that now within the framework - because it's been a year - these things will be taken into account, because the idea is for all children to be better, not just for some chosen group, but this situation has certainly improved. When it comes to children in advertising, in public space, more widely, I don't even get into individual things here. - as you know, I am never talking about individual cases from this speaker - I have made an extensive speech, a proposal to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Culture and National Heritage, asking for measures to protect children in these spheres. Because it's not just the media, it's not just the Internet, it's all those beauty pageants where these kids are being treated, really uncool, they're different places, unfortunately with the consent of their biological parents. And here, in this case, because let's always be aware that the fact that this child is there... Because if it was a child from a nursing home, it's the responsibility of a state institution, but if it's a child from a family home, it's the responsibility of a parent. No one is able to draw attention to him, only the family court, he is only authorized to do so, neither is the spokesman. There was a question about Irena Sendler's Year. There is no Member, but I would like to thank you very much from this point on. I took this initiative shyly in January, because it's only been 10 years. I know the Seym deals with such circular anniversaries: 50, 100, 200, but I found that Sendlerova is a great figure, it is necessary that it is someone such that even a year would testify that it is worth analysing her life and showing as an example, as such a signpost. It's been accepted. Very Members who have signed up for this project that we have submitted, and then all those who voted... I know only one vote was holding back, and the whole room was in favor. It's upbuilding too, which means it's very important. It is as I asked for the Year of Korczak and later I began to coordinate this year and actions. You know how this year was celebrated in 120 countries of the world and what the results are today: Korczak in Mandarin, Korczak in Lithuanian, recently Korczak events in Bulgaria, Hungary, earlier in Tirana or Taiwan, not to mention what happened in Poland. But it also happened, and it must be said with complete humility, not only thanks to the spokesman - the spokesman was only a stimulator - thanks to these fantastic teachers, educators, parents, doctors, social workers, police officers, court workers, various people who were down there like ants, without asking, for what, worked and this Korczakov thought carried into life. This is fantastic. From here today I pledge because I am a responsible man, so since I have submitted a motion, I take responsibility for it, appoint an organizational staff of the Year of Irena Sendler. I'm gonna get the strongest, good things out of it that we can show. I'll encourage everyone who wants to be a part of this again. I hope that if this is the decision of the Sejm, then all state institutions as if with a key will be obliged to act. I hope that the assessment of the Year of Irena Sendler, a wonderful person, whom I had the privilege and pleasure to know - so as if I am twice obliged and twice feeling it - will be something great in the history of our country and someday someone will be able to write about it, as one of the leading professors of pedagogy wrote that the Year of Korczak was the biggest social campaign for children in post-war Poland. As far as the Hague Convention is concerned, there is a need to bring back the cassation complaint, it needs to be promoted, and people need to know what the consequences are. And we're doing it. The Ombudsman also published a special brochure, which went to all institutions in the country and abroad dealing with it, so that Polish citizens knew what to do and what not to really do so as not to harm their child and themselves as a result. But I can also see that more and more people come to us - not when the second instance is over and nothing can be done, but when this road begins - asking questions about what I should do and what I must not do. Here, my associates are giving these advice on an ongoing basis to protect children from the wrong situations. I also thank you for this question about the ruling committees. The Ombudsman joins these actions, 30 times last year in support of actions for children, in order to restore the proper state as it should be. The child should be given comprehensive help and his parents should receive support and help. The professor asked about the ranking of trust. It's a good thing the spokesperson's already in it. As the last one points out, he trusts him. Now I can't tell you what the number is, but this is the third place in the country. I think that's it... but it's not for the spokesperson. I think today we're having this prenatal climate. I think the spokesperson is the beneficiary of the fact that consciousness is changing. Of course, we work hard, but we'd be immodest if we said it worked that way. The fact that we took off from 5%, so today these almost 70% It's very important, but these are polls. It is important that we do our daily work and that people actually get help. It's giving such a signal somewhere that it's visible, but the most important thing is to move forward. As far as foreign issues are concerned, I replied. As regards adoption, education - there is no Member - let me just say this: we have worked out a standard team in the Ombudsman's office has developed the adoption standards that have been passed to the Minister for Family, Work and Social Policy. We have come up with proposals to amend legislation that would improve this phenomenon, help children. All these provisions have been addressed to the President asking for support. We are also encouraged by the issue of the Penal Code, the fact that when it comes to children's affairs, such a green light has been lit. I hope we can keep working on this and help out here. It's the real thing. The last question - the Member does not have, but I will answer - was anonymous. Unfortunately, I read anonymously, because there are times there information that a man who has to give his name may not give, and they can protect his children. I'm directing this information to the appropriate institutions, to the police, to investigate if there's a crime threat, to the parole board, if that's the case with education. Let me just give you one example. Once, probably in 2009 or 2010, there was a little piece of paper on my desk that said that we were being punished in our hospital, that we were exposed to frost, that they were injecting saline, that it hurts that we were humiliated. And I was wondering, is it possible in the 21st century, if someone in the hospital, specialists, doctors, can do something like that? I've been looking at this card for three days, and I'm finally saying, "I'm gonna check it out, okay? I'm gonna check it out. I'm gonna check it out." When my men went to the scene, when they checked what was going on there, after two hours, I got a phone call: Boss, it all checked out, and it's worse. So we have to take this kind of action. There's one more thing. These cards before me got five other institutions, no one responded, these children were court-ordered there, they had no way of telling anyone. Therefore, if something doesn't work out, I understand that the audit authority will say, "I'm sorry, we've been wrong, someone has reported maliciously or improperly, but even if it doesn't confirm three times, and once it's confirmed, it's worth reacting and taking action, even if someone feels temporarily under the hierarchy because they have difficult questions asked. Then let him know that perhaps the life of the child, the health of the child who needs our support, has been saved. Thank you very much again. Thank you for this debate today, because this is a debate on the rights of the child, which is such a celebration in this regard. Thank you also for this daily contact throughout the year, thank you to the parliamentarians who write, call the spokesperson, alarm him. I even prepared to give a few names to those who are most often my clients in the order of reporting cases, because I think if they write, it means that they trust the spokesperson to believe that they will solve the problem. Thank you, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Mr Paweł Skutecki, Ms Urszula Augustyn, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Mrs Beata Kempie, Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz and Mr Sławomir Piechota. Thank you so much for trusting the spokesperson on the rights of the child. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u59	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was privileged to speak on behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club on the Ombudsman's report on the activities for 2016. Over 50,000. a year - so many cases, intervention is taken by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. Numerous meetings with children and young people, hundreds of letters filled with emotions in which authors express sadness because of lack of love, respect, understanding... It is an institution needed and committed. Just because the number of intervention of the Ombudsman grows from year to year does not mean that children are getting worse in Poland. This is primarily the result of the institution's increasing recognition and confidence - and this is the result of hard work. At this point, it is also important to appreciate not only interventions, but also numerous campaigns and social actions aimed at education, building awareness of the parent and the child about the rights of the child. Lions of cases on the basis of the report are those concerning the right to raise in the family. But it's not just interventions that need to be appreciated. A huge commitment, a few hundred patrons in the case of large socio-cultural events, dozens of seminars and conferences, finally participating in studies shaping somewhat public opinion - is a kind of added value of the Ombudsman's position. These are educational activities, but also in a sense preventive, supported by documents such as. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is extremely important for the future of Polish citizens. This is not the first time we pay attention to this problem in the Polish Parliament. Punishment for crimes against children should be the highest possible, and those who know that a child is being harmed cannot be impunityd. This issue was already dealt with at the beginning of this year, but the subject is still valid and important. Every child is a treasure, and the role of all of us is to take care of these treasures. Therefore, the role of the Ombudsman is also so important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u61	I state that the Sejm has heard information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2016 and comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on a one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017 (print No 1545). I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Members' Club a proposal for one-off allowances for pensions, in short. Every year, pension benefits, pension benefits, all benefits are valued. This takes place in March. The valorisation rate is defined by law, that is inflation. plus a minimum of 20% Average wage growth. I stress that it's a minimum, because there's a possibility that it could have been more. As a matter of fact, this inflation is the lowest we could expect this year. Let me put it this way: inflation was virtually non-existent, because there was a deflation and 20% average wage growth, and this minimum was applied. You could've given me more. That's what happened in some cases. Older people come to me and say they got a $2.70 raise. This is incomprehensible and difficult for these people, especially since the beginning of the year we have inflation in the country, there is an increase in food prices, energy has been expensive - since last year there is a higher price for energy. Gas is also more expensive, the price of motor insurance has increased dramatically, and the cost of living for pensioners and pensioners has also increased significantly, thus reducing the purchasing power of these benefits. Therefore, on behalf of the Members' Club, we have proposed one-off additions. This form has been used in the past. These additions, of course one-off, have an impact on the living standards of residents, pensioners and pensioners. I would like to remind you that such allowances were also introduced last year. It was 400 PLN with the lowest pensions. This year we propose that this allowance for the lowest pensions, up to 1 000. PLN, it was 500 PLN and later it was already going in a decreasing way, i.e. if there is a benefit of 1 000 PLN. zł to 1200 zł to make it 400 zł supplement, from 1200 zł to 1600 zł - 300 zł and from 1600 zł to 2 000. zł - that's the upper limit - would be 200 zł. Above this amount, the allowance would no longer be due. We want this to be introduced from 1 July this year, as we have a summer period and these expenses are also quite large. The expected amount is about PLN 1800 million. We propose that this money, because in the budget it was not planned previously and it is not present, came from surplus National Bank of Poland, which was planned at a very low level of probably less than PLN 1 billion, and as it turned out, NBP transfers over PLN 9 billion to the state budget this year. So with these funds, of course, after a proper shift, you can secure these expenses. These are necessary and necessary expenses. I think that there will be no greater resistance in this regard, because everyone should benefit from economic growth, and we still hear that this growth is happening, that the economic situation is improving. We can't wait until next year because this valorization next year might be higher, but it won't be great, and you have to live from month to month. This is therefore a reasonable solution. It's not a handout of money, as some people would like to call it and sometimes use that term. This calls for a moment, expectations of pensioners and pensioners. This would apply to all benefits for pensioners from different groups. This would apply to agricultural benefits, where these benefits are lowest, because many farmers, contrary to what was said, would be the lowest benefit in Poland of 1 000. zł... That is not true, because many farmers have benefits far below this amount. This one-off allowance would not be subject to tax, its amount would not be included in other allowances, such as social assistance or housing allowances. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party and all those pensioners who expect this and think that they will also participate in the division of this economic growth that we have, and we still hear that he will be even higher at the end of the year, I expect the government to do everything to allocate these funds to one-off allowances, because it is, as I said, unfair and unfair. As we remember, this is the lowest valorization, the lowest increase in pensions and pensions. Even if the valorisation was low, different methods were used, such as quota valorisation, because this was done probably two years ago, one-off additives were used, an increased rate of valorisation. So, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I ask your marshals to proceed as quickly as possible. It is a clean, transparent project, it is a non-controversial project, because we would like to run these additives as soon as possible. Like I said, we're at the beginning of June, we assumed it would be from July. Let me put it this way: this legislative formula has been used before, so it doesn't require any additional processing. I think that only a very technical approach to this would cause pensioners to receive these allowances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u63	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. We begin with the speech by Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting to the High House on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a statement on the Parliamentary draft law on a single monetary allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017, print No 1545. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The parliamentary project mentioned at the outset is another such approach of PSL Members who are chaoticly trying to repair the reputation of the Polish People's Party, especially in the electorate... [[Have mercy.]] ...rural and small community centers. At this point we should mention what for this formation and the co-co-collaborator, the Civic Platform, is a political millstone around the neck. In the context of pensions, the PO-PSL team is generally mentioned as an increase in the retirement age and as an increase in savings accumulated in the OFE. However, we forget about Donald Tusk's first team, i.e. about the reduction in pensions paid in almost half over 5 years - all by the capital formula introduced in 2009 for the calculation of pension benefits from the Social Security Office. A little history to begin with. On 21 November 2008, the PO-PSL coalition adopted an amendment to the Pension Act, which introduced the so-called "Retirement and Retirement Act." capital formula for the calculation of pension benefits with the Social Security Office instead of solidarity. In practice, this meant that the amount of the pension paid would depend on the amount of capital raised through pension contributions, according to a specific algorithm. Before the amendment of the Pension Act, the so-called pension law was in force. a solidarity formula for calculating pension benefits. Thanks to it, the person who reached retirement age could count on a pension of around 60%. The last salary. Unfortunately, as of 1 January 2009, the capital formula started to apply and for most Poles reaching a pension rate of 60%. the last salary has become completely unrealistic. It turned out that capital pensions meant a drastic decrease in the benefits paid. Another attempt to save PSL's reputation was the proposal contained in the citizens' bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, print no. 680, which was de facto a project of the Polish People's Party. Today, in the High House, we are discussing another project on changes in the pension system by PSL, which does not have the courage to admit the total error made in 2012, i.e. raising the retirement age for men and women to 67 years of age. At this point, I would like to stress that Law and Justice have changed this antisocial requirement by restoring the previous retirement age. As in the above-mentioned PSL legislative initiatives, in this case the parliamentary bill on a single monetary allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017, contained in print 1545, has a number of disadvantages. Projectors propose that the amount of one-off allowance to benefits that do not exceed 2 000. PLN, varied according to the benefits received or the sum of benefits received. The proposed solution would apply to pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, as well as pensions of farmers, uniformed services, benefits and benefits, bridge pensions, teacher compensation benefits, veterans' pensions, war and military disabilities and social pensions. The proposed law would enter into force on 1 July 2017. The vacathio legis contained in the project violates the principle of decent legislation. Let me just mention that the Constitutional Tribunal has formulated specific principles of law-making, which it has included among others. an order to maintain an appropriate adjustment period for the introduction of new legal standards, i.e. vacathio legis. Of course, this is not just about the adjustment period, which is far too short. The projectors estimated that the introduction of the supplement would result in a burden on the state budget in 2017 of about PLN 1.8 billion. Here the question arises: Why such solutions Didn't PSL propose at a time when he was in charge with the Civic Platform? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice wishes to remind you that [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2017, an informed decision was taken not to grant one-off allowances to the poorest pensioners. Another option was chosen which, on the one hand, provided a higher increase in the majority of pension benefits, with a very low valorisation rate of 100,44%. On the other hand, it provided much greater protection for pensioners who received benefits paid in the amount guaranteed by the State. As a result of an increase in the lowest pension, total incapacity for work and survivor's pension from PLN 882,56 to PLN 1 000. zł These benefits increased by 13,31%, i.e. 117,44 zlotys, not, according to the valorization mechanism...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u65	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u66	Such a solution resulted in increased benefits for about 522 thousand. pensioners who collect them from the Social Insurance Fund and for about 350,000. persons receiving pensions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u67	Madam President, please go to the end, you have already exceeded a considerable amount of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u68	...and pensions from KRUS. Okay, two more sentences. Of course, for political reasons, as the Polish People's Party does, it is possible to submit various projects to the High House which do not have provided funding from the state budget. I would like to stress that this is pure populism for which there is no provision in the state budget. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice negatively evaluates the parliamentary bill on a one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u69	Madame, it will be two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u70	...bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017 Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the first reading of the Parliamentary bill on a single allowance be rejected in full for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits or...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u71	Please take the floor of Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u72	...bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017, print No 1545. Thank you and submit your motion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u73	Madam President, at first I warned and informed you that the speaking time was 5 minutes, not 7 minutes. Please observe him. I would like to ask you, Member, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the draft Act on one-off cash allowances for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017, print No 1545. In fact, after speaking to my esteemed previous speaker, I should not refer to printing because arithmetic is simple. We already know that this benefit will not be provided. However, I would like to say briefly that, in accusing populism, you did not refer to the methodology, what Mr Kasprzak presented. Rather, this should be addressed. We know, of course, that you introduced 1000 PLN in the case of the lowest pension, but the current mechanism has caused this one-off benefit proposed by the club. PSL for many pensioners and pensioners, relatively speaking, is actually very low. I would just like to remind you that in 2009, I am talking about this rate of valorization, which was in force, the average increase was at the level of 85.20 PLN. In 2010 this increase was, of course, also in the context of inflation, 70.23 PLN. In 2012, when quota valorisation was accidentally introduced, this amount amounted to 71 PLN. In 2013, the average increase was PLN 70.61 and in 2014 - PLN 29.87 zł. As Mr Kasprzak put it here, inflation is very low, but the increases that he mentioned are definitely causing the drain on the pockets of pensioners and pensioners. By giving you a real, real bow for 500+, although now is not the time to talk about certain ailments, i.e. the absence of the programme of all children, in this context we are also talking about a certain social justice and solidarity. The money you have found is indeed very large amounts, and this proposed amount of one-off benefit, which would definitely support pensioners and pensioners, is the amount of 1800 million. The applicant Mr Kasprzak pointed out the source of funding. There is also a presentation of the amount of one-off benefits depending on the amount of the pension. In fact, what Mr Kasprzak has proposed is a reason for a broader discussion on the support of pensioners and pensioners with low income in the context of the proposal that has been in force since last year, namely the 500+ measures. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to state that, of course, we recommend further investigation of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u75	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Rometki, on behalf of the Kukiz15 club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u76	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the Act on a one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017. We are very much in favour of supporting her. In Poland, more than 1 million pensioners live on the poverty line. They can't afford not only drugs, but often food. Of course, despite the fact that from this point on, me and my colleagues at the club have repeatedly called for discussions on the future of the pension system, we have no doubt that the current pensioners who have worked hard for their pensions must live a decent life because they too have been deceived. Dear Izbo, let me stress once again, we understand the need and the need to compensate for differences in pension benefits, and the payment of one-off allowances in this case seems to be the only solution. However, our concerns do not concern the validity of such proposals or the amount of benefits, because we think that each one is too small. Our concern is that we are once again examining the law on increasing expenditure without indicating the sources of funding for it. Please do not use the creative nomenclature of accounting, pointing to paragraphs and juggling amounts from the budget with an increasing deficit. I understand the identification of sources of funding as a simple mechanism: we are looking for savings so that we can spend additional amounts. I am not an economist and I am not going to use your arguments here. Let me get this straight. You're increasing the budget gap to buy an electorate. You're making it huge. You don't think about the kids and grandkids you're gonna leave behind with a big debt. They'll have to work for even more pensioners. You've practically sold them all their fortunes. For us, our grandparents have won the war, and we will leave our grandchildren a lot of debts, foreign employers and a noose around our necks in the form of a large number of pensioners. All that remains is to hope that our pensioners, our grandmothers and our grandparents are more responsible than those who rule. So my friends don't say that without a proposal, I'll give you a few. I will give you proposals which will show you the real sources of funding for these allowances. You have all calculated that it takes around 1400 million to pay these benefits, which is not much if we look at our proposals. Firstly, the maintenance of the ZUS is over 4 billion a year. These are not pensions payments, they are officials, IT systems, buildings, renovations, etc. Let me add that for the promotion of the ZUS it spends about 350,000. A year, although I don't know what to promote. Secondly, spending on your political parties in this term of office is about 450 million. Thirdly, voivodship offices account for about 1 billion a year. The voivodship offices, which are 16, often duplicate the tasks of the voivodship government or individual ministries. The ordinary citizen does not understand why the marshal's officials sit on one side of the building in Krakow and the voivodeship on the other. How are they different, and why should they run between them? Fourthly, not to mention the sums paid by the presidents of State Treasury companies, agencies and various strange special purpose funds. But already from the amounts that I quoted here, the ZUS take half, or 2 billion, take the subsidies from the parties and remove the voivodeship offices, give the tasks to the Marshal's offices and we already have 3.5 billion savings. Let's pay the pensioners 500 zlotys a year, and we'll reduce the deficit by 1.5 billion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u77	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u78	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Act on a one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017. This law has appeared for several years as an addition to the amended pension law. The proposal of the PSL Parliamentary Club is a support for the recipients. It follows from the Act that it will refer to it, this support depending on the size of the pension and will oscillate at the same level as de facto in previous years. Thus, according to the submission of the message, the allowance will be payable in the amount of PLN 500 if the benefit or the sum of the benefits granted to the entitled person does not exceed PLN 1000, PLN 400, if the benefit or the sum of the benefits granted to the entitled person exceeds PLN 1000, no more than PLN 1200, PLN 300, if the benefit or the sum of the benefits granted to the entitled person is PLN 1200, no more than PLN 1600, and PLN 200, if the benefit or sum of the benefits granted to the entitled person exceeds PLN 1600, but no more than PLN 2000. The one-off nature of this supplement will, of course, not solve all the problems of pensioners, but in many cases it will be possible, for example. the purchase of medicines, and thus the ad hoc solution to some of the problems faced by pensioners and pensioners, all the more so since in the current year we have a symbolic valorization of those benefits at 100,44%. What comments are there for this submission? These are generally ZUS comments, which indicate that, in principle, the deadlines for payment of the proposed changes due to the IT system that is in force in the ZUS and the system which is currently being transformed due to the changes resulting from the reduction in the number of years necessary to achieve the retirement age, however, do not result in the possibility of paying these allowances within the time limits set out in the Act, but this is not a disadvantage which would disqualify the project. It therefore calls for this project to be directed towards further work in the relevant committees. I believe that these committees will also present an analysis of the financial burden in substance. By force of this type of analysis, the parliamentary project does not contain, because the data concerning precisely these burdens are not known. In submitting the above, as I said, please refer this proposal to the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u79	Thank you very much. I club Polish People's Party, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u80	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I thought we were going to be seriously discussing the fate of pensions, the amount of pension benefits, what can be done for pensioners, not some historical... I have tried here as little as possible to present this historical policy, because it is not good for the cause, but unfortunately you have forced me to do this, you have forced me to do this by telling foolishness and nonsense here. And I don't know who wrote you that speech, I really don't know, because if... I can't believe you could write a speech like that. Someone wrote you this bullshit speech, and you read it here. Yes, you read what someone wrote to you. [[The voice from the room: She read it clumsyly.]] First of all, it wasn't PSL that introduced OFE, it was AWS that introduced OFE, and today many AWS members are sitting on your side. [[Applause]] And what do you have to say? PSL was against it. [[You took money from OFE.]] PSL was against, PSL was against this pension system. All the time. PSL was against OFE. Do you remember the past ministers of social policy? Jolanta Fedak, do you remember fighting OFE and telling me how stupid this is? Because it was stealing human money. Ofe grazed, and the retirees got nothing out of it, and they didn't. We had to take it down as soon as we could, we've been behind it from the beginning. And don't tell me. It's bullshit that we took some money from the pensioners because it's not true. [[Who took it?]] Second thing, you say we're making something up here. And you did the same thing last year. And what, it wasn't an invention? I mean, that's the same thing that went on. It's a copy, and now I'm going to tell you, because you criticized it, you pulled that bill, that bill. It's exactly the same thing. So, what, you guys did populism last year, too? A little peace and some caution in all of this. Another thing. What's it like, there's no money, everything's wrong, and you're proposing to add a plus to it and do it at the end of the year? So what's it like? So who's doing the races here and who wants to outbid who? We have reported a particular project because this valorization is really low, because as today you can get a pensioner who gets 850 zł, say that he got a 4 zł raise and is supposed to be happy. A rational project we've proposed, it's a plus that's already moved in your head, that you're saying: Okay, PSL has a good project, we're just going to add a plus and we're going to say that this is our project. Don't do that. Let's not bid here because social policy hates bidding. You just have to look and think about who you can help, to what extent you can help. This problem is about the amount of benefits, so I'm surprised you're proposing to reject the project. No one's gonna understand. Retirement won't understand. Yesterday you proposed the same thing, and today, in the sitting room, a proposal that we had already tabled a few months ago, you are proposing to reject. This could be further developed, and I will not repeat what Mrs Hanajczyk has already said here, because she has quoted these levels of valorization over the years, but even if the valorization was low, a solution was sought together to help pensioners and pensioners. There's nothing to outrun and bid on, whether it's a plus or a minus. You just have to give the money. I also pointed out the source of funding. This money from the National Bank of Poland when adopting the budget was not included in the budget. It's written, I don't want to mislead, about 1 billion. zł, there is over 9 billion PLN, so there is additional money. We do not reduce the budget, this money only needs to be properly carried out through the budget and for other things enough. Unless you have some kind of side idea to spend that money, not share it with those who need it the most. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to appeal for reason and lean on this subject, having a discussion. The discussion hasn't started yet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're already proposing to throw it away, because it's not your idea. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u81	Thank you very much. As far as speaking on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle is concerned, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan has submitted it in writing. There are 6 people on the list for questioning. Does anyone else want to sign up for the question? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. You are starting a Civic Platform club by Michał Szczerba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Margaret Sadurska in PZU - 90,000. monthly. Ninety thousand. monthly it is the lowest pension that the PiS government pays to the pensioner for a period of 7.5 years. And you're saying today that the pension allowance, the allowance we applied last year, isn't necessary? The level of hypocrisy of this government is scandalous. Seniors are not a priority for this government. Mr. Marshal Dear has expelled the Civic Parliament of Seniors from this House. The government won't listen to seniors. Jerzy Owsiak is being kicked off TV with his collection for geriatrics. Geriatric troops are thrown out of the hospital grid, becoming an internship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Government, where's senior policy? How big can your hypocrisy be?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u83	Thank you. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u84	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw the applicant's attention to one aspect. Does the applicant realize that even if the PiS Members miraculously raised their hand behind this law, then the Social Insurance Institution is simply not able to pay this benefit this year? As he writes in the opinion to the project: He needs from 6 to 9 months from the date of entry into force of the proposed law, depending on the extent of the necessary changes in information systems. Surely the transfer of Mrs Margaret Sadurska to the Social Security Office will not speed up this process or soften the hearts of Members. [[The voice from the room: to the PZU, not the ZUS.]] The Social Insurance Institution has issued such an opinion. [[Voice from the room: But Mrs Sadurska is not there.]] Ah, PZU. But it doesn't change the fact that... [[Voice from the room: We know what's going on.]] ...this IT system won't get any more powerful. Do the applicants realize that we're trying here to figure out something that unfortunately doesn't stand a chance of getting in? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This year?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, I see, is absent. In that case, Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. You're welcome. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! We've just been dealing with something outrageous, absolutely outrageous. The PiS once again applies for rejection of a law that meets the expectations of pensioners. Whether this law is right or wrong should decide, my fellow Members of the PiS, the Sejm committee, you should not apply for rejection in plenary. This is outrageous. This is part of such a broader policy of the PiS absolute lack of approach to this group of seniors, which should be taken care of by the state. On the other hand, I have a question for applicants as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you: Why did you not use the gold mechanism in this bill, assuming that there is a group receiving lower benefits than the other part? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shouldn't it be so that the group that receives the lowest benefits, the mechanism of the gold payment should be rewarded? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u88	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! I would like to ask you if you do not believe that the state acts theoretically if it cannot send 500 PLN by transfer and it needs a few months to prepare the IT system. At the same time, I would like to give a measure here. The applicants believe that this project will cost the state budget about PLN 1.8 billion. Can we compare this with how much the VIP planes are gonna cost this year? I think it's more expensive because it's 2 billion. So if it's for a VIP plane, then there should also be money for pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u89	Thank you very much. With this question, we have exhausted the list of questions at this point. I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki to give a position because the questions were addressed to the representative of the applicants, but the Minister also wanted to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House the draft official position of the Council of Ministers, this position is currently under preparation - a project which has been submitted by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I will present the motives of this position. Applicants, when submitting a draft of the Act discussed today, justify this project with the shortcomings of the existing statutory mechanism for the valorisation of pension benefits, which is laid down in the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. I would like to remind you that this is a price-paid valorisation, that is, both a valorisation that takes into account the price index of consumer goods and services, popularly called inflation rates, and a valorisation that takes into account the increase in average wages. It can be said that it is a mechanism of valorization, which is universal in nature, i.e. is applicable under different economic conditions. It can be said that when we are dealing with a situation where the economy is developing slower, a feature, an element with which we are dealing then, there is a greater increase in the prices of consumer goods and services and this inflationary element allows us to maintain the existing purchasing power of the benefit. On the other hand, when the economy develops faster, the characteristic of such a period is usually a faster increase in average wages, the participation of pensioners and pensioners in this economic growth provides an element of wage growth. So this is a mechanism of nature, you can say, universal. This is obviously a mechanism that also has its drawbacks, because it is a mechanism of percentage valorization. The disadvantage of such a percentage allowance is that benefits that are part of the lowest benefit are nominally increasing more slowly than benefits that benefit people who receive relatively higher pension benefits. These shortcomings are known and it can be said that the legislator in previous years tried to correct this universal mechanism for the valorisation of pension benefits. In 2009... I may not be here to tell you how this has been done in recent years, but I will present to you what type of correction mechanisms have been applied here. Thus, in previous years, we have dealt with both pure interest valorization as well as an accidental quota valorization, a one-off, conditionally permitted by the Constitutional Tribunal. We have also been faced with mixed, percentage-quota valorization as well as in 2016, i.e. already in the current term of the Sejm, a decision has been taken to grant one-off pension allowances. In listening to the discussion on the project, I had the impression that the applicants, but also many Members who participated in the discussion, did not see what had happened in 2017, namely this valorisation mechanism, which was applicable, was introduced on 1 March 2017. I would like to remind you that the percentage valorisation, which took place on 1 March 2017, consisted in an increase of all pension benefits by a valorisation rate of 100,44%. that is, benefits increased by 0.44%. In the case of the lowest benefits, i.e. benefits which until the end of February 2017 amounted to PLN 882,56 as regards the lowest pensions, as well as pensions for total incapacity for work and survivor's pensions, it was decided in parallel to an unprecedented increase in the amount of the lowest pension benefits by more than 13%. Please confront these two numbers: 0.44% and 13,31% in relation to the amount of 1 000. zł. As regards the amount of the lowest pension due to partial incapacity for work, they increased from PLN 676,75 to PLN 750. Social pensions have also increased from PLN 741,35 to PLN 840. It can be said that such a significant increase in the lowest pension benefits concerned nearly 1 million people, i.e. 521,000. pensioners receiving the lowest pension benefits from the Social Insurance Fund, i.e. persons covered by the general insurance, as well as about 350 thousand. persons collecting pensions from the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. I think that the farmers on whom the applicants refer have felt such a significant increase in the lowest pension benefits. This number of nearly 1 million people whose benefits have been substantially increased are also made up of those who receive social benefits. Let me remind you that the valorisation of pension benefits - this is actually also a remark to be reported - is an annual valorization. This is the valorization that is carried out once a year, on 1 March of each calendar year. The nearest valorization will be carried out on 1 March 2018. It is worth mentioning the prospects that await us. So we already know macroeconomic data, which are the basis for preparing the draft budget law for 2018. These macroeconomic data are based on forecasts relating primarily to the planned inflation rate, but also on the planned average wage growth rate. Thus, these macroeconomic data show that prices in 2017 could be 101.8% , prices of consumer goods and services will rise by 1.8%. You could say that this element, which is an element of 1.8% growth. , compulsory must be included in the next year's rate of valorisation of pension benefits. As far as average wage growth forecasts are concerned, they say 3%. We plan to increase the average wage by 3% in 2017, which means - assuming that the Social Dialogue Council will determine the increase in the rate of valorisation resulting from the increase in the average wage at the lowest statutory level and the negotiations are currently ongoing - we cannot decide that this ratio is 1.8% will be increased by 0.6%. Today we can predict that next year, 1 March 2018, all pensions, taking into account the statutory valorization rate, will increase by 2.4% , which will mean, unless, of course, a decision is taken to correct this statutory mechanism for the valorisation of pension benefits, that the amounts of the lowest pensions and the lowest pensions for total incapacity for work will increase by 24 PLN, while average pension, average pension benefit will increase by about 50 PLN. In answer to the questions that were asked during the discussion - they were primarily about the possibility for the Social Insurance Institution to implement this bill - I would like to say that the situation is much more complicated than the problem of sending a transfer or transfer through the Social Insurance Institution. This opinion of the Social Insurance Institution does not result from the fact that the IT system of the ZUS is inefficient. You know that any correction in the pension system also requires an adjustment in the IT system of the ZUS, and this also requires a public procurement procedure. We know that for these procedures to be maintained, time is needed, and this is the justification for the position of the Social Insurance Institution. In view of all of this, as well as the fact that the Budget Act for 2017 does not provide for additional appropriations for the payment of one-off cash allowances for certain pensioners, pensioners and beneficiaries of pension benefits, pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions and teacher compensation benefits, the proposal expresses a negative position on the draft legislation discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u91	Thank you, Minister. I ask the representative of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak's applicants to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, Well, it would be best if pension benefits were at such a level that we didn't have to discuss whether they were too low or sufficient for pensioners, and that there was a pension system that would provide an advantage that would not result in a decrease in purchasing power for pensioners and pensioners. And what's being watched right now? Every once in a while, it is known to us from previous years, we create this so-called one. An old wallet. Here too, in this case. Okay, it's up to 1000 PLN, but not all of them, because some farmers, a lot of farmers, have it at 870 or 880 PLN - that's the first thing. Secondly, if those who had 1,200 zlotys got 10 zlotys of valorization, it is not a luxury either and we cannot say that this is an increase. Some people, some of the recipients actually benefited, only that this is part of the poorest ones, while the purchasing power of those who are above... The decline in the value of their provision is huge, because today we may not have galloping inflation, but the rise in prices of goods and services, purchased goods, medicines can be seen on a daily basis. A 10 PLN raise does not solve this problem. Hence the idea - with the real need to change it. Waiting, Minister, until March next year isn't gonna be an extraordinary thing, but it's gonna come from this formula, like you said, two-component inflation plus 20%. You can give and 50% , and more, but here the government is sparing. Every government should be spared, except you have to look at the other side as well. We've been offering... We were in the Polish People's Party in favour of mixed valorization, because it is different in different years, in different periods there is economic growth, inflation is different, so that we can make some additional changes without such annual changes and so that the tool is ready. Let me put it this way, the ZUS needs 9 months, but this system was introduced last year, it was in place, and I think there are tools to do it, and it doesn't take up to 9 months. If not since July, it may be a month later, but there must be a will, there must be a will to seek a solution. If he doesn't have the will, if they say he doesn't, then nine months won't be enough. It won't be enough, Minister. I know the ZUS, the ZUS can flex and can do all kinds of good things that at first are impossible to do. Once again, I call for a prudent approach to this proposal. This isn't a bid, this is a rejection request at first reading... It's another week, this week's gonna be so festive, and I think it should be a moment of focus, too, for everyone to reason with. It's about being careful, about thinking about it and starting a discussion. Maybe it's not perfect, maybe you have a better solution for today. The money is - because I pointed out where the money came from - so this can also be carried out very quickly, because additional money appeared. This money was not at the beginning of the year when the budget was created at the end of last year, there were other plans, other assumptions. There's extra money coming in, so there's no need to regret the retirees, the rencistoms, the poorest ones. And the question is, wouldn't you like to do it on a gold-for-dollar basis? I was wondering, it's also some form, because there's, as they say, a hundred bucks a hundred, which means you have 100 zlotys more... Every solution and every idea is allowed here. You have to look for the right solutions. I think that at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, we could think about it and maybe look for a more perfect solution if it is imperfect, but I think it is best to follow the proven methods and the proven path, and it was done last year. Marshal, thank you very much and I would ask you to refer this project to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u93	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the proposal for a Parliamentary bill on a one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2017. March 1st this year The Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws entered into force. According to its records, all benefits paid have been valued and, most importantly, the minimum pension and pension benefits have been increased regardless of the valorisation rate. The lowest amount of pension benefits now amounts to PLN 1000 and pension benefits for e.g. partial incapacity for work - 750 PLN. However, despite the increase in these amounts, both pensions and pensions continue to grow at a very low level below which poverty or poverty begins. This means that those who receive the lowest benefits each year are in an increasingly poor material situation. They cannot afford to secure their basic needs, such as, for example, buying the necessary medicines, heating the apartment or even regular nutrition. Therefore, the proposal to grant the most deprived persons a single allowance to pension benefits is welcome by us. Especially since a similar solution was adopted by the High House as early as 2016. According to the project discussed today, the allowance in question, as in the previous year, will be granted to eligible persons whose benefits do not exceed 2000 PLN. In 2016, the amount of one-off allowance paid, depending on the pensions due, ranged from PLN 50 to PLN 400. In this project, however, it is proposed that this amount should increase from PLN 200 to PLN 500. In addition, the allowance is to be exempt from income tax, health insurance contributions and will be paid ex officio. Maximum limit on expenditure of the State budget resulting from the implementation of the above-mentioned budget the law is set at PLN 1.8 billion. We are aware that this is a heavy burden for the state budget. However, in our view, this one-off allowance for pensions or pensions will be an important support for the poorest to their home budget. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u95	At this stage, Unfortunately, I cannot read this part of the information because a request for rejection was made at first reading, and we will therefore vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services (Print No. 1564). I'd like to introduce the project to Mr. Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour on behalf of the Group of Members of the Modern Posel Club to submit a law on amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The main characteristics of the tax on goods and services are its neutrality for the trader. In order to preserve the neutral nature of the tax on goods and services, also commonly referred to as VAT, it is necessary for traders to receive the refund of the excess tax from the tax authorities as soon as possible. The current legal situation does not ensure a smooth refund of the tax. The basic date for the refund of VAT set out in the Act of 11 March 2004 on VAT on goods and services is 60 days, and tax offices often extend this period even without initiating formal control procedures. The retention of VAT may also be influenced by law enforcement authorities. In particular, in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, holding VAT refunds poses a significant risk to the liquidity of companies. The proposed law aims to speed up VAT reimbursement by shortening the time limit within which the tax authorities refund the excess tax, from 60 days to 25 days - that is the time limit for VAT reimbursement in an accelerated manner - and specifying the activities and procedures which the tax administration initiates as a basis for extending this period. The Act removes the institution's prior VAT refund for a natural reason: since we have 25-day VAT, the institution's earlier VAT refund becomes redundant. In addition, the Act prevents, as is currently the case, the police, the prosecutor's office, the CBA and the ABW from requesting that VAT be withheld. If necessary - because of course this can happen and there are often situations where the validity of a refund of VAT needs to be verified - the head of the tax office may extend the refund period until the verification procedure has been completed. However, when reimbursement is considered reasonable, immediate payment is made, but that is decided by the head of the tax office as a tax administration, not by a completely different authority, often unaware of the rules and specificities of tax clearance, hence a specific change. In addition, our law, i.e. the proposal to amend the Act on VAT on goods and services, limits the possibility of administrative removal of a taxable person from the VAT register in connection with carrying out transactions with entities carrying out unfair tax settlements in order to obtain property benefits, and that is when the taxable person can only and only assume that such situations have taken place. In other cases, however, the removal of a taxpayer from the register should only be based on an administrative decision, such as the recent recent case law of the administrative courts. To get to the details, I would like to stress that we are proposing to give a new sound to the article. 87. 2 VAT Act, shortening from 60 to 25 days the period during which tax offices are to pay overpaid tax to traders. Insufficiently precise provision is also being changed to suspend reimbursement in the event of doubt as to the validity of the refund on the current date until the verification has been completed for the time of completion of the taxpayer's verification of the accounts carried out in the context of the tax control, customs and treasury checks or tax proceedings. The aim of this amendment is to extort the tax authorities to undertake the activities and procedures provided for in the separate provisions of the tax bill verification instead of the undefined one, so that it can take place in any long time without informing the trader. Delete paragraph. Article 2c 87 of the VAT Act removes authorities such as the chief police officer, the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, the head of the intelligence security agency and the prosecutor general's right to require the chief tax office to suspend reimbursement for a period of 3 months. It is up to the tax authorities to be the only competent authority to account for the tax to be able to pay back, retain or implement verification procedures, correct refund of the tax on goods and services. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 87 shall be deleted. 6, which is the consequence changes to the article. 87. 2, i.e. replacing the 60-day VAT refund with a 25-day period. Change in the wording of the article. 87. 10 is purely legislative as a result of the changes mentioned above, including the amendment of the wording of the Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9a, that is, the provision which refers to the possibility of removing a taxable person from the register of goods and services tax - in point 5, we introduce the principle that the taxable person had reasonable grounds to believe that he was dealing with unreliable taxable persons, with unreliable transactions - in relation to the current wording of point 5 of that provision, which uses a very vague concept of knowing or having reasonable grounds to assume. We're losing him on reasonable grounds to assume. He knew. Because we believe that we have reasonable grounds to believe that, when we are also dealing with transactions which indirectly concern this taxpayer, we consider it to be too far-reaching and creating excessive discretion for tax authorities. Of course, the removal of a taxable person from the register should be based solely on an administrative decision. Already in the state, as I mentioned, the current administrative judiciary indicates that this is the sovereign interference of tax authorities in the rights and obligations of the taxpayer, and such sovereign interference, even if it is merely a notification, this notification is already an administrative decision. Therefore, we propose a change in this respect in order to cut off any speculation, but also to enable the taxpayer, to give the taxpayer full right of defence, because this is a very specific situation - to remove the taxpayer from the register. By removing a taxpayer from the register, we can very often lead to a situation of loss of confidence in this entrepreneur, and the loss of confidence in the entrepreneur in the business market causes de facto its liquidation. Therefore, such a sudden deletion of a taxpayer from the register and only on the basis of vague criteria, and additionally included in the provision, in the state of law, for which, I hope, Poland wants to disappear all the time, should not take place. In submitting the above, I propose that this law be referred to the committees for further work. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u97	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. But before I give the floor to Mr Lech Dobryka, I would like to say hello to the students from Junior High School 25 im. Fredry, Collegium... Oh, I can't read it, Mr. Bydgoszcz, can I? The Bydgoszcz right-wing club. [[Applause]] So that I wish you a successful stay in the Sejm, positive impressions. And now Mr Lech Szbek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, print No. 1564. Ladies and gentlemen! A widely known problem, not only in Poland or in the European Union, but also outside the European Union, is the problem of the so-called gap. VAT, but in Poland this problem is so important that this gap is twice as high as the EU median. Therefore, since 2015 the Law and Justice have given particular importance to this and have already made a number of changes to combat this problem. Ladies and gentlemen! There's an EKG magazine in one of the radio stations, and there's one part of the program that's surprising. I must say that given what I said at the outset, and also after analysing the project itself, and also after reading the justification, I do not hide that I am very surprised because the authors of the project, instead of proposing solutions limiting the problem, act exactly the opposite. They even want to destroy some of these changes, which have a visible effect, as evidenced by the results on VAT income in both 2016 and 2017. It's the opposite. For what is the purpose of shortening the term of repayment - the amendment of the article. 87. 2 - from 60 to 25 days? Or what the mouth is for. 2c in the same article, meaning that the option of extending the deadline to be refunded at the request of law enforcement authorities is abandoned? It's not like there's a week before there's any news in the media about the subsequent arrests of VAT fraud people, even from today. This situation is completely incomprehensible, all the more so since 1 January 2017. You guys seem like you don't know the actual practice, because these 60 days are the maximum time. I would like to remind you that EU rules allow six months, but in practice this deadline is about 40 days. However, in the first quarter of 2017, it was exactly 36.67 - not so far from the deadline you are proposing. It is also important to remember the accelerated 25-day payback date. While you regret in the justification that the accelerated term does not apply to newly created companies, you know very well that the companies of poles are just several months of companies, which are an important element of VAT carousels and among others. they are eliminated from this accelerated procedure. At this point, it should be noted - this is on the RCL pages - that work is currently underway to amend the provisions of the Goods and Services Tax Act on the introduction into the legal order of a split payment mechanism, the element of which will be the accelerated 25-day period for the refund of the excess input tax if the taxable person requests that this refund be made on his VAT account. Importantly, it is the reimbursement of the entire amount of the excess tax shown in the declaration, whether or not the invoices from which the tax is shown have been paid by means of a split payment mechanism. Similarly, the second block of changes associated with deletion from the register should be critically assessed. The change in the indication that the deletion of the taxable person follows the investigation and the notification of the taxable person is illogical. Remove the taxable person from the register pursuant to Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9a, this provision, now requires both the prior conduct of certain activities by the authority and the notification to the taxable person of the deletion. Similar comments can be made on the further part of these changes, which I will not make because of the passing time. To sum up, none of the proposed solutions in your project deserve support. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, acting on behalf of the parliamentary club, I request that the Parliamentary draft law be rejected in its entirety at first reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the amendment of the act on the tax on goods and services, print No 1564.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u99	Thank you. As regards the Civic Platform club, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel made a written statement. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz, 15, is gone. I would therefore ask Mr Paweł Kobyliński to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome. And Mrs Genowefa Tokarska also made a written statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u100	Dear Marshal! Ministers! Countless High Izbo! The 1564 Print Act... I wonder why you don't like entrepreneurs so much. You see threats everywhere. You have been in the Seym for 10 years, perhaps since 2007, and I think you have forgotten how difficult it is to do business. [[Applause]] You must not look at the return of VAT in the context of fraud, theft, trafficking in human goods, drugs or other such Egyptian pathologies, but you must look at it from the point of view of the business activity of the normal Polish entrepreneur. You're talking about fighting bad things. Of course I do. But what do you got? You've got a tax evasion clause, you've got wiretaps, you've got a uniform control file, you've done National Tax Administration, you've done 25 years for VAT fraud. Now there's another idea: to send statements to the IRS every day. There's 31,9,000. pages of seym prints and Polish entrepreneur in all this must be found. Even now, the country you're boasting about is having such fantastic financial results... You still want to rob Polish entrepreneurs and build liquidity at the expense of what they have earned. Because we're not talking about bad people here, gangsters. We are talking about Polish entrepreneurs, who deserve a quick refund of VAT, because this is something that they paid out. They've earned it, sir. [[Applause]] That's why I don't understand this approach. This is an extremely wrong approach, it is thinking of Polish entrepreneurs as thieves, huhsztaplers, and it is not. We here, in this House, are not creating any specially good new value by making these 31,9 thousand. Pages. We don't, sir. They do it, they actually hold us, and not we kindly hold them, creating some often imaginary laws. Some of them are good, I must admit, but most of them are bad, starting with the dismantling of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, what needs to be done to ensure that the tax system is tight? First of all, simplify the rates. Do you know what it's like to make a hot dog in Poland? We have another bet for mustard sauce, another for mustard, another for ketchup. Salt and pepper are at a reduced rate of VAT, and the marjoram is on 23 etc. Bread can be like this, not different. Well, how do you make a hot dog, Mr. Simpson? Simplify the VAT rate, it'll be easier. The rate of excise duty on fuel oil and diesel oil can be adjusted - there will be higher tax revenues. You can do many other things, but you really don't need to borrow a Polish entrepreneur. I really don't need it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one more thing worth mentioning here. It must be remembered that, when we talk about VAT payments, the country has 60 days to pay back. Of course, longer deadlines are acceptable in the Union. You're right, sir. This does not change the form of things that the Polish entrepreneur must pay this VAT, if he is to pay it, in cash always until the 25th day of the next month, whether he has money or not. And you can give him back, and you can't give him back, depending on what instrument he's gonna come up with. You have great opportunities. And we do not really question the validity of the fight against organised crime, Mr President, we really do not. Our intention is to care for the liquidity of Polish entrepreneurs. We are now at the top of the economic cycle, but this economic situation will end someday, Mr President. If it's over, all the bad things you've put in, they're gonna come in, they're gonna hit Polish companies twice as hard. That's why I don't understand this bad attitude, why you don't want to work on this project on the committee. This is extremely irresponsible. We should think about how to help entrepreneurs, or at least not giving them new responsibilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u101	Thank you very much. Two Members have been included on the list as regards the task of the question. Is there anyone else? I can't see. So I close the list. Time - 1 minute. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club and then Mr Lech Szbek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Mr Dobry, I specifically mention your name so that you can come and say here... I would like to ask, because first you say that our project is bad because we don't know about it, and then you say that VAT returns are made within a short period of time, almost as in the project. That's the first question: do we know each other or not? If they're done as in the project, that means we've got a pretty good handle on the subject. [[Applause]] But later on, you claim that this project is bad, catastrophic, and not suitable. You are therefore filing a motion to reject it. So what do you say? Either we know each other, and the thing about our project is that it all coincides with reality, or here you are trying to mislead the High House and the citizens. I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Will this project stop the State from lending its expenses [[♪ The bell ♪]] the funds that belong to the entrepreneurs, and therefore these entrepreneurs will not have to bear the credit costs they have to bear because the State is taking their share of the money and lending their business finance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u103	Thank you. And here's the second question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I didn't use the term you guys didn't know each other. I just don't understand why you're putting together a project like this. Firstly, referring also to Mr Kobyliński's comments, such a question to the Minister: What do the different rates of VAT - the hot dog mentioned and some sauces - have to do with the procedure for creating the VAT carousel? I mean, it doesn't have anything to do with anything. Secondly, Minister: Does an honest entrepreneur, one in which there is no doubt, really have to be afraid? And in which category of VAT refunds is he in? Under 36 days or over 36 days, because that's the average? And on average, it usually comes from the fact that some people get a little bit later, but others get a little earlier, maybe even earlier, than [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're proposing. 60 days, on the other hand, is a fuse for a reliable and reliable verification in suspicious situations, and the VAT law in its current form is not aimed at honest, good entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u105	Thank you very much. Will the Minister answer? Then he is the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Nowak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u106	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Here I will answer the Members' questions. No, the hot dog in question has nothing to do with the VAT carousel, it's a completely different subject, it's not about that. This is more about VAT when VAT returns are made between countries, exports - imports. That's basically how carousels work, not hot dogs. But when it comes to honest entrepreneurs, it's not... The average period, as mentioned by the Member, is about 36 days. On the other hand, all these solutions, which the Ministry of Finance introduces or which are sometimes proposed by Members - to a large extent, mostly - from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, have a positive opinion of honest entrepreneurs. It's very often that... Now there's a project that's gonna go, connected with a split payment, in which there'll be a payback period of 25 days, accelerated. He, I am glad, is also very positive received by honest entrepreneurs. Because those who are honest know that they have nothing to fear. There's a check coming in, they show the papers, everything's right, case closed. But usually the biggest scream is from this side, where there is always a gray zone. And that's our experience, and that's what we get from honest entrepreneurs. They're even rooting for us to solve this problem, because it's because of this problem, which is VAT, which is because of this whole VAT hole, it's losing the whole society, among other things. Honest entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u107	Thank you very much. And a representative of the applicants, Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u108	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not surprised at the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, because you just chronically dislike entrepreneurs... [[You're talking nonsense.]] ...and you think all entrepreneurs are criminals. Don't be impertinent here, Minister, that the purpose of this bill is to protect some dishonest entrepreneurs. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that the liquidity of honest-working entrepreneurs who earn a refund of excess VAT is improved and that tax is to be neutral for them. By keeping these refunds, he is not neutral, while the 25-day deadline for VAT refund is subject to a number of conditions that the taxable person must fulfil in order to receive that refund. Our amendment is simply intended to simplify the tax system, simplify the deadline for reimbursement. On the other hand, our project retains the possibility of verification at all times in a situation where there are dishonest entrepreneurs. After all, we do not delete this provision, so please do not mislead the High House and Poles, [[Applause]] because the verification of dishonest entrepreneurs is preserved and can be done. You've created the National Tax Administration and you're bragging about how it works. So what's the problem? Since this National Tax Administration is so efficient, this return should be made within 25 days. [[Applause]] So we have a functioning administration or we don't have an efficient administration? Please note that we are talking about the police, the CBA, the ABW, about those bodies which the Act provides in principle full power over taxes, because at the request of the head of the tax office it extends the refund, not: it may extend the refund, only: it extends the refund. [[Because there are reasons.]] But the reasons for extending the refund, i.e. the appearance of the carousel, should be judged by the head of the tax office, not by the police or CBA. As far as possible, these applications have been submitted so far and the head of the tax office may extend the refund, and you favour and introduce law enforcement authorities into the tax system. Why? To intimidate a taxpayer to complicate the tax system? [[Applause]] The issue of administrative decisions. As of today, the removal of the taxpayer from the register will be considered an administrative decision when the taxpayer appeals - there are already judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court - but you obviously do not like justice very much, even chronically refer to those judgments and selectively, as in other cases, you think that some judgments of the courts can be applied, others ignore, because that is convenient for you. [[Applause]] So many answers to questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u109	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services, print No. 1564. They are right when they claim that the rules for the refund of excess input tax over due need to be modified so that the principle of VAT neutrality for the trader is implemented more fully and quickly. The project contains reasonable demands to enhance the protection of the rights of the taxpayer in relation to the tax authorities in terms of VAT return and deletion from the VAT register, but it must not be forgotten that the interest of the tax creditor should be taken into account. The explanatory memorandum states that the amendment is also intended to specify the activities and procedures which the tax administration has initiated as the basis for extending the repayment period. However, it should be stressed that these activities and procedures are already mentioned in Article. 87. 2 as applicable. This provision already refers to the verification carried out in the framework of the verification, tax control, customs control or tax proceedings. There is therefore no need for change in this respect. It is justified to withdraw from the Article. 87. 2c of the VAT Act giving rise to an automatic mandatory extension of the refund period at the request of law enforcement authorities for a maximum of 3 months. This regulation is disproportionate and unnecessary. The decision in this respect should belong to the tax authorities responsible for collecting taxes and not to law enforcement authorities. If the law enforcement authorities inform the tax authorities of a proceeding which may affect the outcome of the verification of the validity of the refund, the tax authority shall, pursuant to Article. 87. 2 of the VAT Act is liable to extend the VAT refund period until it is verified. In doing so, he must justify his decision. The tax authority, as a specialised body in the field of tax law and experienced in its application, is undoubtedly more qualified to assess the appropriateness of return than law enforcement authorities. Proposed Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9a relates to the explanatory procedure without indicating how these explanations should be carried out - checking operations, tax control, customs control, tax treatment. A long period of waiting for reimbursement is a significant problem for taxpayers, while at the same time challenging the important principle of the common VAT system, which is the neutrality of this tax for traders. However, it should be borne in mind that the problem is not the basic term of return, i.e. a 60-day deadline which does not differ from that of other EU Member States. It is, however, a prolonged verification of the validity of the refund, carried out without any time limit. Under the rules in force, the repayment deadline may be extended by the tax authorities in principle for any period and on several occasions. This results in a multi-month or long-term period of uncertainty for the entrepreneur pending the return. In such a state of affairs, it would be good not to shorten the basic term of return from 60 to 25 days, but for example. the introduction of a maximum period for carrying out the verification, with an obligation to issue after a certain period of time a decision confirming the validity of the refund or refusing to make a refund which the taxable person could challenge in appeal proceedings (instantaneous tax proceedings) and judicial administrative proceedings. It should be stressed that the 25-day period proposed in the project is too short to satisfy the principle of insight and objective truth to verify the validity of the return. Until now, the 25-day deadline has been reserved for refunds which could be more easily verified on the basis of the documentation presented. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of directing the evaluated project to further work in the Committee on Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present a position concerning the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, print No. 1564. The draft law, in a very synthetic way, proposes several important solutions for businesses in relation to the settlement of tax on goods and services. 1. The project envisages speeding up VAT refunds by shortening the deadline for reimbursement of tax overpaid by traders from 60 to 25 days. Currently, the 25-day deadline is an accelerated deadline and is available to operators who have made an appropriate request and fulfil certain requirements for the application of this procedure. So there will be liquidation of the so-called. an accelerated period and a period of 25 days shall be a normal period. 2. The bill proposes to amend the possibility of blocking the refund of the tax difference on demand submitted by the Chief Police Commissioner, Head of CBA, Head of the ABW or Prosecutor General. 3. The project limits the possibility of removing a taxable person from the VAT register. The deletion from the VAT register may only take place after the investigation and the final decision of the tax administration has been taken. The proposal rightly provides for the possibility of extending the VAT refund period if the situation requires additional verification, even where the police, the prosecution, the CBA or the ABW report the need to do so. That's the decision made by the head of the IRS. However, if the refund was justified within the normal time limit, the taxpayer shall be entitled to interest for this extended refund period. All proposed VAT arrangements should be assessed positively. The introduction of the proposed solutions will improve the liquidity of entrepreneurs, especially new companies, small and medium-sized enterprises and companies in sectors suspected of carrying out unreliable settlements. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law, but was not subject to any consultation or agreement. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I recommend that this project be directed to work in the Committee on Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u112	A motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 43rd meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. The list is therefore closed. To speak in order to make a statement I would like to ask Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club. I take it you're giving a speech on the stand, right? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u113	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My statement concerns a self-government card adopted during the last self-government forum. This is particularly important in the context of the Act on Regional Financial Chambers adopted by the Sejm, which transforms from state bodies into de facto government tools for democratically elected control and having a social mandate for wojites, mayors, city presidents or voivodeships, control under the absurd pretext: the purpose of local expenditure. Let me quote only some of the provisions contained in the local government charter concerning the idea of self-government, concerning the concern for the achievements of local governments in Poland developed over the last 27 years. The local government is the foundation of a democratic state. The reconstruction of the Polish self-government, which brought local communities autonomy and the ability to decide their fate, is the most successful of Polish reforms. Thanks to this we changed Poland, gaining the trust of most Poles, which is systematically confirmed by public opinion polls. Changes in the laws on the basis of Polish self-government, which are currently proposed without any consultation with the local government party, may undermine the state system. Reducing citizens' electoral rights, depriving local residents of their independence in the performance of public tasks, freedom to manage their common assets, freedom to interact with other individuals will hinder local development as expected by residents. Taking away the competences of municipalities, powiats and voivodships and passing on their central administration to citizens and not controlling them is a departure from democracy. I would like to object from this point of view to these intentions and changes that have already been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u114	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement concerns sleep. Zbigniew Brzezinski, honorary citizen of the city of Przemyśl. On 26 May 2017, he died in a hospital in Falls Church, Virginia, Prof. Zbigniew Brzeziński. Although he was born on 28 March 1928 in Warsaw, he and his family were associated with Przemyśl. His grandfather, Kazimierz Brzeziński, was a judge in Przemyśl and a well-known socialist, died in 1924, and his father, Tadeusz Brzeziński, was a lawyer and diplomat, consul of the Second Republic of Leipzig, Toronto and Montreal. Zbigniew Brzeziński attended a public school in 1935 and 1938 at ul. Sienkiewicz in Przemyśl. In 1938, he and his father Tadeusz left for Canada for a diplomatic service. After World War II, the Brzeziński family did not return to Poland. Zbigniew Brzeziński graduated from school and McGill University in Montreal, and at Harvard University he defended his doctoral thesis in the history of Soviet totalitarianism. At the age of 30, he became a U.S. citizen, a professor at Columbia University in New York City in 1960. From his youth he was associated with the Democratic Party. He advised President John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson. In the 1970s, he argued with the anti-war left in his party, criticized the policy of relaxing the presidents of Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford, who, in his opinion, put excessive emphasis on arms control, underestimating the issue of human rights, which led to concessions to the Soviet Union. He was a co-founder of the so-called. Trilateral committees, political and business organisations wishing to strengthen the alliances of the United States, Europe and Japan. Brzeziński invited the then governor of Georgia, Jimmy Carter. When Carter became President of the United States, he appointed Brzezinski as his advisor to the United States. national security in 1971 and 1981. In the winter of 1980, on the initiative of Brzeziński, who resigned from the office of President of the United States, Carter mobilized Western European leaders to defend Poland threatened by the intervention of the Soviet Union. In the letters they observed Moscow before this step, warning that it would put an end to relaxation in Europe. After leaving the government in 1981. Brzezinski remained an influential expert in the field. U.S. foreign policy. He was particularly involved in politics towards the Soviet Union and the Eastern bloc. On his initiative, the Polish-American Freedom Foundation was set up to strengthen civil society, democracy and the market economy in Poland. He was a supporter of the construction of the so-called elements in Poland. a missile shield, stating that placing an American shield in Poland will strengthen its alliance with the USA. Zbigniew Brzeziński was awarded the Medal of Liberty in the USA, the Order of the White Eagle in Poland, the highest national distinctions of Germany, Czech Republic, Lithuania, Latvia, Ireland, Ukraine, doctor of honors of Jagiellonian University, Warsaw, Catholic University in Lublin, Vilnius University, Honorary citizen of Cracow, Gdansk, Lviv and Vilnius. But the first honorary title of the citizen of the city in Poland granted him the family Przemyśl. Zbigniew Brzeziński visited Przemyśl in 1987, in 1990 he came to take away the honorary title of citizen of the city given to him as the first honorary citizen by the city council elected in democratic elections. I had the privilege of declaring a laudation and giving him the honorary title of a citizen as the then president. Professor Brzeziński was the founder of his name awarded annually to two students of the Second High School in Przemyśl for a period of 25 years. In 1989, Przemysl's solidarity founded a plaque on the house on the street. Sienkiewicz 5, where the Brzezinski family lived. Today, June 9, 2017, funerals are held in Washington. Farewell to the citizen of the world, outstanding strategist and Polish [[♪ The bell ♪]] A patriot. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-09-sejm-43-3.u116	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 43rd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 44th session of the Sejm, convened on 20, 21 and 22 June 2017, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 13 min 41]]
