ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Mr Krystian Jarubas, Mr Wojciech King, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch and Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz. The first part of the session will be Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mr Wojciech Król. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Krystian Jarubas and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 9, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 9.15, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Culture and Media - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 12, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13.30, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 14, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 14, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 3.30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 17, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - National Democratic Parliamentary Team - h.m. 10, - Lubuskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Persons with disabilities - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Air Quality Improvement Team in Poland - hour 16, - an away meeting of the Parliamentary Group. Police - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Spa - hour 4:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Team for the Construction of the Express Road S6 Szczecin - Gdańsk - hour 4:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the implementation of Central European Logistics Centre in Łódź - hour 6:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u3	Thank you very much, sir. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time of the answer to an additional question. The first questions will be asked by Members... Actually, the first will be Joanna Borowiak, Anna Milczanowska, Marzena Machałek, Lidia Burzyńska and Beata Mazurek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question is about the condition of the BOR found by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration after taking responsibility for the State by Law and Justice. The question was addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Minister Jarosław Zieliński will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Recently, information has been received to the public on accidents involving the most important people in the country. The opposition takes action to discredit those responsible for the security of the first citizens of the Republic of Poland. However, the situation is not clear, and accidents have also occurred during the previous PO-PSL government. You may even get the impression if you listen only to these voices, that they are only cases involving the last few months. A short or selective political memory dictates that some opposition politicians forget how the Government Protection Office has been treated and operated in previous years as previous governments. Are we talking about accidents, or are these really the first events of this kind? Minister, what condition did the Office of Government Protection find the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration after taking responsibility for the State through Law and Justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u5	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Izbo! The most tragic testimony to the weakness of the Government Protection Office in recent years was the Smolensk disaster. Not only did the Office of Government Protection fail to fulfil its basic protective tasks against the President of the Republic of Poland and other protected persons, but after this tragedy it was not analysed what happened, the causes of this tragic event, were not drawn from this conclusion, and I would remind you that the head of the Government Protection Office, General Janicki, instead of the cancellation of his duties, was promoted to the rank of general. We were held responsible for the state of the Office of Government Protection in a neglected state, one might say, in a devastated state. In addition to what I mentioned, in addition to not responding to such a tragic event and not fulfilling the tasks of this formation, we have dealt with the long-term underestimation of the Government Protection Office's budget. The financial resources allocated in the budget for each year did not allow for the full implementation of the statutory and basic tasks of that service. We've been dealing with very severe staff shortages. The formation did not have a human resource adequate to the number and nature of statutory tasks. Time etat P Offices of Government Protection are around 2900 officers, and in December 2015 the registered state was 1894 officers with a financial limit adopted for the calculation of funds for 2240 officers. Thus, the so-called. the completion of the formation was about 65%. At the same time, it must be pointed out that there have been years in which the BOR's registered status fell even to the level of 1816 officers; this was the case in 2013. Over the years, the necessary modernisation of the facilities and equipment of the formation has not been carried out, which, of course, affected its condition. There was a lack of adequate staffing policy in terms of recruitment, as well as a service model and incentive system - which was in fact missing. There were also serious health and safety concerns. Most of the buildings and premises located in the administration of the Government Protection Office required immediate and extensive renovations. Over the years, some civil servants' housing rights have not been exercised. For example, at the end of 2015 some 1,400 officers were waiting for the exercise of these powers - here I am thinking especially about the equivalent for resigning from the residential premises. The amount that should be paid under this rental equivalent is estimated at about PLN 350 million. There were no funds available at the Government Protection Office for the exercise of this statutory right. The principle of protection of former presidents outside the territory of the Republic of Poland was also adopted; it has recently been regulated. Unfortunately, production instructions were also ignored when it comes to tyres of cars transporting protected persons, including the President of the Republic of Poland. Between 2009 and 2013, 10 passenger-ground cars were purchased - a characteristic example - heavy, armored, without proper approval and excise duty. This meant that these vehicles could not be registered and thus allowed to operate on the roads of the European Union. An even more interesting example is that in 2008 a used representative car was purchased, heavy and armored, 3 years old, with a run of about 23 thousand. It's a kilometer. This vehicle was directed to the protection group of sleepers. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. Agreements between the President, the President of the Council of Ministers and the Sejm and the Senate and the Office for Government Protection were also obsolete. You could do this, this painting, you could still characterize it, you could do this, but I'd like to say a few words about what was done. The budget of the BOR for 2017, i.e. the budget that we have already shaped, was increased by almost 14% compared to last year and amounts to PLN 240.7 million. BOR was included in the programme of modernization of uniformed services developed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, adopted by the Government and adopted by the Sejm. Between 2017 and 2020 the Office of Government Protection will receive 56 million PLN for construction investments, for the weapons and equipment of special technology - 25 million PLN, for personal equipment - 16.4 million PLN. About 90 vehicles will be purchased for the Office of Government Protection. Let me remind you that in 2016 we already purchased 51 cars - new cars - needed by the Government Protection Office in connection with World Youth Day and NATO Summit. This has greatly modernised the fleet of the Office of Government Protection. In previous years, the Office of Government Protection bought several cars per year for VIPs, for protected persons. Activities have also been undertaken in another area, namely in terms of frequency and quality of training, including those related to the management of protective cars. In 2016, the Council [[♪ The bell ♪]] about 170 people have been trained. Of course, the instructions for the operation of tyres and the rules for the organisation of the transport of protected persons have been revised. One more sentence, at least in this part. We have made intensive recruitments, and in 2016 137 new officers were admitted to the Government Security Office. The balance sheet for the first time - counting the departure, because the natural human movement takes place every year - is positive and in 2016 amounted to 70 new officers. We found 400 vacancies. This year intensive recruitment is continued and will be conducted in the following years, so that the Office of Government Protection will become a state that will allow the proper performance of all the tasks of this formation. Other questions regarding accidents, traffic accidents, I will answer if the marshal permits, in the second part.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u7	Of course, Minister. Thank you for your answer. And I ask for an additional question from Mrs Beata Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u8	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer we have heard, but I'd like to ask you a few more questions. Well, in the media in connection with the accident, the Prime Minister has been informed - several times in some media - that such a series of accidents involving the BOR have not yet occurred. General Janicki, in my opinion without honor or decency, says in the media that it never was, and even if you or Minister Błaszczak says that in previous years there have been many or comparable cases involving BOR. So I'd like to ask you that. If you could give examples of events involving the fleet of the government's fleet, especially during the years of the civil platform and the PSL, because these are the politicians who are mostly attacking us and our governments... And the question, which also comes up quite often: When will this formation come to true reform? We know what the assumptions are, but when can we expect the resort arrangements and when will the project affect the Sejm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u9	Thank you, and I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Seym! It is not true, of course, that in previous years, under the government of the PO-PSL coalition, there were no road events involving the Office of Government Protection cars. Statistically, it looks like all collisions involving the fleet of the protective groups of the Office of Government Protection, I repeat, the protective groups, because there are also other events, in the years 2008 to 2015, i.e. during the exercise of power by the Civic Platform - Polish People's Party, there was a total of 60. In 2008 - 6, in 2009 - 9, in 2010 - 10, in 2011 - 13, in 2012 - 13, in 2013 - 5, in 2014 - 3, in 2015 - 1 event and in 2016 - 1 road event. I repeat, during the reign of the PO-PSL there were 60 road events. I would like to recall examples of some of these events, because they should be known to the public, and that they are not known, it merely indicates what the approach was then. Now everything that's going to happen, even the smallest event, is being made public, it's also exaggerated, is that so to say, for weeks in the media, at least some, and before that it was quiet, so the public didn't just know it. Let me remind you a few examples. For example, in January 2010, Radosław Sikorski's car, led by a government security officer, hit a police car. The crash took place after the policy had been dropped off at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As a result of the incident and the collision of several police officers were injured, including one hard, and a government car was destroyed. In November 2010, the health minister Ewa Kopacz hit another vehicle in the back of the BOR vehicle from the protective group. In 2011, Jerzy Buzek, the prime minister who ran the red light, hit another car, Citroën. In 2012 in Bud Ruska, near the holiday home of Bronisław Komorowski, then president, there was damage to the vehicle of the Nissan Government Protection Office by officials of the Government Protection Office under the influence of alcohol. They crashed the car, hitting the tree. I was then speaking as a Member with a demand to clarify this matter, and the matter was swept under the rug. It was a very disgraceful event, because things happen on the roads, but it was disgraceful, because drunk and when the president wasn't there. I mean, it wouldn't matter whether he was or not, anyway government, the BOR car was crashed into a tree by drunken officers. In 2013, the tyre was damaged twice in President Bronisław Komorowski's car. 25 such road events were reported in 2014. Then there was a collision - I am talking together now about all the ones that can be called here, not just the ones that have been recorded before. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - President Bronisław Komorowski's car on the street. Belvedere in Warsaw. The case was recently invoked by the media, but only now louder. The event was attended by Natalia Arnal, along with her daughter, who was hospitalized. The woman got a mandant of 600 zlotys. In the same year there was a collision of the car protecting the deputy prime minister Janusz Piechociński. I have here, ladies and gentlemen, a list of these 60 road collisions from individual years. If there was time, of course the marshal wouldn't give me that much, then I would recall the characteristic events of that time. They weren't about the media or the politicians at the time. Today is, as we know, an incident from Oświęcim, which occurred as a result of the driver, after all, not a BOR car, not a government car, doing a maneuver not allowed on the road in this situation, to which he confessed. Anyway... [[It's been proven.]] This is the subject of an attack on the Government Security Bureau, an unjustified attack on the government, and if you gentlemen from the Civic Platform and the PSL study events from that time on which you did not respond, you should really hide from shame and on the subject that you speak so loudly today, not say anything, humbly approach it. The promoted by you, General Janicki, really has no grounds, no reasons, even the smallest, to act as an expert on this matter, because he was responsible for the functioning of the Office of Government Protection when these events occurred, and when the Smoleńsk tragedy occurred. [[Applause]] [[Minister, may I suggest you make this public on the Ministry's website?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u11	Mrs... [[Excuse me, Marshal.]] Madame, I am sorry, but time has been running out. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. I can't discuss... It's already in the cockroaches, Minister, with the Member, please... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you very much. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka and Mr Marek Wójcik, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - question on plans to expand the System of State Registers to the Minister for Digitalisation. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitisation Mr Karol Okoński will answer. Mr Carrot is the first question to be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u12	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! I would like to ask you a few questions about the ongoing work on changes in the System of State Registers. Namely we learned that the state wants more and more information about citizens, among others. To know where we live, to know our cell phone numbers, even our e-mail addresses, and to know who we live with. Of course, such data as I mentioned will be included in this new register and are to be included, among others. taken, some of them, from the census of municipal voters. The solutions will be implemented by the Central Information Technology Centre and will, of course, make it possible for officials to have more and more personal data about citizens in the future. Many experts already warn against the possibility that such solutions can be used politically. Hence the doubts. There is also a fear of attacks by hackers who will have access to the data of the citizen, to many data, in practically one place. I would therefore like to address the Minister with four questions. Firstly, how will data on the actual composition of households be collected? Secondly, how will contact details be collected for persons in the System of State Registers? Thirdly, what safeguards are to be provided for the complementary System of State Registers? Fourthly, whether the Ministry of Digitalisation intends to benefit from the experience of other European countries, France, Denmark or Estonia, where they were used to protect these data. Blockchain technology. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last question, we know that these actions are to be implemented within the framework of the Operational Programme - Poland digital. The Ministry of Digitalization has already sent such a request for authorisation to the European Commission and is waiting for the so-called. Green light. Do we know anything about this yet? If so, I ask the Minister to present these data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u13	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, because it is actually an opportunity to explain or correct certain things. The way in which the Member describes what is planned may indeed raise some doubts or concerns, which is why I am pleased to be able to explain this and possibly address these concerns. First of all, the first information is that the System of State Registers, as it is now defined, includes three databases, i.e. the PESEL database, the Register of Personal Evidence and the Offices of Civil State Base. On the other hand, in the Integrated Information Technology Programme last year, the government adopted a directional strategy to extend the PESEL registry system to include further registers, with the overarching aim of building a single central location, a reference point to which other information systems could refer, in order to avoid duplication of the same information in many places. So that our actions generally, in principle, are part of the plan to expand this data set. And now, with regard to the first question, the question about collecting data about the actual composition of households, first of all I would like to explain that it is not planned to collect information just as it was described. It's about the actual composition of households. The only thing we're planning on doing at this time is gathering information or building connections between PESEL children and their biological parents. This may seem strange, but unfortunately, in the current system, both BUSC and PESEL, such information is not stored directly and simply does not allow certain automated functions and checks that would allow in already diagnosed situations and services, such as the service related to the provision of 500+, to substitute certain things to the citizen who completes the application, automatically to verify and supplement it. At this point in time, we are not able to build such a service because we do not store this data. And here's the primary target. It is simply to write in the register of this information so that it can be referred to in a simple way and through a service, which is then also called on the Internet, e.g. on the form. As I said, for the time being, we are talking about writing down links about biological relationships, and we are considering supplementing this information with data on court judgments related to the granting or withdrawal of parental rights. This, on the other hand, is a more complicated operation, because it requires integration into the case or court record, which at this point in time, at this stage of work, is not possible. However, the work of the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs is also ongoing. As far as the register of contact data is concerned, we are talking here about a new register and data collection only with the consent of the citizen. So we're not talking about the fact that somewhere in the background without his knowledge these data will be downloaded from other places and will be used without his knowledge. So we're talking about giving the citizen a chance to pass on information, their contact details, so that other information systems can use this data and use it to communicate with the customer in a way other than the traditional paper route. So we're talking, for example. to send notifications or reminders or other information if the citizen has previously agreed to receive such information. This does not exclude and at the same time does not stop other works that are ongoing on the so-called. An e-box or an e-service. However, this is the first step to make sure that there is just one central place to which another system can appeal so that other systems do not have to build their own registers and, from the citizen's perspective, so that the citizen, giving the data in one place, can know that these data will be used in other systems, e.g. without the need to update this data repeatedly by the citizen. With regard to securing the systems of state registers, especially the new ones, I can assure you that all work on the new registers will have to meet the same requirements that meet the current state registers. This applies to appropriate procedures at each stage of the software generation cycle. So we're talking about adequate safeguards, ensuring certain safety tests or security audits in the process of preparing a solution, including in operation. Here the details are precisely for security reasons I cannot talk about, but I assure you that these works, because of the fact that they concern registers, are directly statutory, properly secured. As regards the level of security required, they shall also be subject to the control of the Internal Security Agency. And the fourth question about blockchain technology. In fact, we see a great deal of potential and opportunities to start using this technology in our solutions. There is a special stream called Blockchain and Kryptovaluty [[♪ The bell ♪]] under the "Paper-to-Digital Polish" programme, and in the framework of this work are carried out jointly with experts on how this technology can be used in the country, including in the System of State Registers. However, at this point in time, I cannot clearly determine when exactly this is going to happen. On the other hand, this will certainly be seriously considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u15	Thank you. And I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Mark Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u16	Thank you very much. Minister, the General Data Protection Officer in his comments on the Platform for the Integration of Services and Data requests that technical work on the Platform for the Integration of Services and Data be suspended until the legal basis for the collection and integration of such data has been adopted. Therefore, I would like to ask whether such technical work - and to what extent - is being carried out at this point, even before adopting the legal basis for such a platform to be created. I would also like to ask you at what stage is the migration of civil status data from supporting applications used by civil status offices, just to the relevant register in the SRP at the moment. This is the migration you have announced, and I hope that this migration will happen relatively quickly, because this will actually allow us to take advantage of the opportunities that lie in the System of State Registers. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether work is being carried out on the central electoral register, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] we have also talked about such a register many times, the PKW showed the need to create such a register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u17	Thank you. And I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u18	With regard to the Platform for the Integration of Services and Data, at this moment this project is at the stage of preparation of the application for funding from the Operational Programme, as well as the preparation of a feasibility study. So that at this point no technical work is ongoing and will not continue until it is clarified, as you mentioned, all issues relating both to the protection of personal data and to the way in which these data are accessed by other ministries. Unfortunately, for the time being, it is not so obvious that individual resorts can use each other's data that are collected by other resorts. So both from the point of view of communication with the citizen and the right to use the data of the citizen and from the use of data between ministries - these are the issues that are also under analysis at this point, and I agree that they must be resolved before the platform itself sees the light of day and development works will be started. So here's the deal. As for the migration of data, which at this point are still stored in local databases, it actually development of software, so-called The migrator, actually, you can say, has been completed. On the other hand, the process, a detailed schedule of migration of the civil status file is being prepared, especially in agreement with individual... representatives of civil status offices, so that these works do not interfere with their current operations. A rolling mass migration is planned, which will be initiated by such packages of acts, also so that this system can carry it from the performance side as well. We assume - but this is still to be confirmed - that this migration should start about half a year and take about a year, while most migration should be completed this year. And the last question was about the electoral register. Here... the Member reads our thoughts. These are the works that we are actually considering, because we agree that it would be appropriate to create such a single central register. However, this still requires discussion, discussions, of course with the Minister of the Interior and with the State Election Commission. We anticipate such talks, but until they are concrete in the discussions between us, for now, I cannot say any more - except that we agree with intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u19	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Jarosław Sachajko and Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz club15, a question on the control of food placed on the market as a result of the signing of a comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement with Canada (CETA) - a question to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ewa Lech. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It follows from the press that the provisional application of the CETA Agreement with Canada should start in the spring of this year. The European Parliament agreed this month in February to approve this agreement. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister the following questions: When will agricultural products and foodstuffs imported on the basis of the CETA contract appear in Poland? Why the CETA Agreement jeopardises the European precautionary principle and shifts responsibility on the food market from producer to consumer, as indicated in Article. 5.10.2 where is it written directly on the basis of a risk assessment if import controls show non-compliance with the relevant import requirements? How will foodstuffs imported from Canada or produced using Canadian raw materials under the CETA Agreement be labelled? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5.8.1 of the CETA agreement it is concluded that the party itself covers its audit or verification costs. In what section of the budget has the money been reserved - and how much - for the audit and verification of the competent body controlling Canada's production and agricultural processing? How often will such checks be carried out? And one more question. The provisions of the Article. 21.4 provide the basis for the use of the so-called. the principles of mutual recognition of standards and requirements as equivalent. Why do we agree to mutual recognition of completely different agricultural production and processing standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u21	Thank you. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by saying that the questions that Mr Sachaiko has asked are very detailed, so detailed and so asked at such a rate that I was unable to write them down. If possible, please send them in writing. We will also make a detailed reply in writing. Thank you very much. On the other hand, if I can relate in such a general way, then I will only say that the temporary application of the agreement will exclude those entities, objects which belong to the exclusive competence of the European Union. This will apply to this temporary use of agri-food products. This period of provisional application will be used to assess the possible impact this agreement will have on our agriculture or our food economy. I just want to say in general that despite some general reservations in our assessment there will be no direct threat to Poland's agricultural sector. This is mainly due to several reasons. Firstly, Canada has a small share of agricultural imports of the Union and Poland, and the liberalisation of customs duties in imports of the most sensitive agricultural products from Canada will be limited. With regard to what you are most concerned about, namely food safety, all veterinary and sanitary conditions will have to be met on an equivalence basis, actually compliance, because there is a difference. Nothing that has so far been prohibited as regards the placing on the market of the European Union will be allowed after the entry into force of this agreement. In short, goods which have not yet been authorised on the Union market will still not be allowed. With regard to the further argument that, however, we are saying that this will not have a major impact on our agricultural sector, we also see some advantages in the case of processed fruit and vegetables, because we will be able to find a market. As far as checks are concerned, everything will be done on the basis of the rules so far. All inspections that have been carried out will be combined into a single inspection, the State Food Safety Inspection, which will carry out checks at border crossing points, at the importer's premises, at the destination. It depends on the kind of food. In any case, these control rules, the choice of goods for inspection are based on EU and national rules, but mostly EU rules. As regards goods from Canada, some simplifications result from an agreement between the European Union and Canada, and in no way do these simplifications jeopardise food safety. During Mr. Andriukaitis' last visit in May Ub. R. such a question has been raised as regards the requirements for food safety that we will apply to simplifications or derogations. The Commissioner clearly said that there are no concessions or compromises when it comes to food. Requirements that are laid down in the European Union will be imposed on food originating in Canada. I would like to say that, of course, the frequency of controls and goods are set out in the relevant regulations and decisions of the European Commission, which are directly applicable, and that is what we apply. If an example were to be given for mandatory checks at a certain frequency, it would be envisaged, for example. flaxseed, since flaxseed was found to be a GMO product in 2009. Therefore, flaxseed originating in that area shall be inspected. It should be noted that no non-compliance has been found since 2011. In short, when it comes to controls, there is no risk that they will not be applied. That's one thing. Second, however, all the requirements that are made during the production of food in Poland and the European Union will also be made. That is what I would like to say at the outset, but the answers to these specific questions will be given to you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u23	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking you for an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u24	Thank you very much, Marshal. Nevertheless, I thank you for the declaration that there will be a detailed answer, because in general assumptions everything looks nice until we enter into the specific provisions that allow for the application of risk assessment rules or voluntary ones. The problem is not at customs rates, but at non-agricultural, non-price restrictions. And let us remember that there are 35 million people in Canada, and in Europe, there are 505 million in the European Union, so here we have a market gap. More than 2,000. We're not eating calories. I would also like to ask what agricultural products and foodstuffs can be placed on the economic market in Poland on the basis of the implementation of the CETA agreement. What are the differences in standards between these goods? Can the Ministry publish a list of such discrepancies? The point is, it's not true that Canada produces the same food. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's like Europe. This food is produced mass-produced there, there are no sanitary or veterinary requirements as in the European Union. The list of authorised agricultural products in the European Union is also much smaller than in the case of Canadian ones. So a comparison of these two markets and saying that this is the same is, I fear, a huge abuse, so I would ask you to publish these discrepancies, for example, concerning the number of measures, as well as the production standards of that food and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u25	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u26	According to the information I have in 2015, it is clear from Canada that mainly cereals, in particular wheat, durum wheat, oil seeds and vegetables, I apologize, but also animal food, blueberry, turkey or goose eggs, sugar syrups and shrimps. These are the kind of goods. And the rest of the question will be answered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Mr Dariusz Starzycki, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz and Mr Jerzy Paul will ask a question about the system of support for Polish inventors - to the Minister for Development. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz will answer. Please ask Mr Andrzej Gawron and Mr Dariusz Starzycki as the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! These individual inventors come to my parliamentary office. I work on the Economics Committee. They expect me to help them somehow, that these inventions, which they show there, represent, will find some use for the economy. They are mostly people who would like to help our Polish economy. Indeed, as a Member, I do not have such opportunities. We know from experience that there were many inventions and such ideas in Poland, but unfortunately they were mostly commercialized or used somewhere in the economy abroad. In my opinion, it would be good for the Ministry of Development to create such an opportunity for these individual inventors, where it would be possible to pre-evaluate their idea whether it is real or suitable for commercialisation, or even some mechanisms to prepare for later, if it really turned out to be a good solution, to commercialise them e.g. by companies of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In a study carried out in previous years, entrepreneurs and inventors in Poland most often point to the following inconveniences which make it difficult for them to obtain protection rights on their own, including products manufactured and technological solutions: high financial costs related to the acquisition of protection rights, the length of the process of obtaining protection rights, the lack of availability of training in this field, complex administrative procedures related to the acquisition of protection rights, the availability of free advice, the dubious effectiveness of protection and the difficult enforcement of their rights. Minister, what is the situation in this area today, and is there any action that will eliminate the barriers described above that affect entrepreneurs as well as inventors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u30	Thank you very much. And I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I wanted to thank you very much for this question for two reasons. First of all, this diagnosis which you have formulated here, when asking this question, is true and is probably not only about applications to the parliamentary offices. Similarly, many inventors come and report to the Ministry of Development, to the Ministry of Science, to various ministers, depending on what the innovative solution relates to. And they really struggle if they are not a legal person or are not rooted in a research institution that can develop a given project. There is indeed a market gap, what to do with such potentially good ideas. Because it is also worth saying that this problem faced by those who could potentially invest in a given project is also such an impossibility to verify, firstly, a given invention, as far as it is groundbreaking and secondly, market potential. So, in order to understand these problems that you have pointed out, the Ministry of Development has prepared a solution that will come in, will be implemented this year under pilot programmes, under the Operational Programme, Smart Development - this is sub-measure 2.4.1: Centre for analysis and piloting of new instruments other_LAB. We have prepared the implementation of such a pilot programme, which we have called: a good idea. He will be addressed, dedicated to the support of the authors of innovation, solutions applying as natural persons, i.e. just the ones I mentioned, not remaining in the employment contract with an economic operator or not rooted in a research institution. What is the purpose of this program? The aim of the programme is to provide the necessary instruments to verify a given idea, in order to check this idea through technological advisers who will already be recruited from research institutes, from universities corresponding to the technology concerned. But also, which is not meaningless, the honourable Member mentioned all these limitations related to the lack of intellectual property protection support instruments. The latter instrument, which is missing, is the ability to commercialise, i.e. to evaluate this particular invention, which is even very groundbreaking, but it is not possible to commercialize, because it is simply too expensive and no one will buy it at a given point in the development of this technology. So, first of all, technological verification, second of all, market potential analysis and commercial suitability verification, third of all, the choice of the best solutions, because probably we can't all just afford, so the choice of the best solutions, fourth of all, support these qualified ideas by tooling up certain legal advice services. If an inventor wants to develop this as his own business, it will help to set up this activity and prepare for the next stage, because different inventions are at different stages, some still require additional research, funding for research and development. Then, from the available resources at the National Centre for Research and Development or at the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, such inventor will be able to receive support for the preparation of a good proposal for a further project. Or, finally, if it is a question of recapitalisation already at the level of investment, it will be possible to obtain the best ideas, those which will have the highest market potential, to prepare an offer in order to obtain an investor, whether the investor mentioned by the Member, in the form of a company of the Treasury, or an investor simply from the market, commercial. Let us remember that at the same time we are launching the largest investment fund platform in Central Europe. We hope that there will be many investors on the market with free resources who are ready to invest in innovative, risky projects and look for good ideas. So we hope to present these good ideas to investors with this instrument, as I said, a good idea. The services that I mentioned, which will be provided to the originators, will concern both clarification of the idea - because often these ideas are ideas on three or four pages on paper, and therefore this is about clarifying them - clarification of technological solutions, market analysis, which I have already mentioned, commercialisation advice, is also a very important element on which the lack of many scientists indicates, preparation, execution and research of low-budget models and prototypes, if this is also required, the rental of apparatus - we have in Poland many apparatus in university laboratories, technology parks, its use is expensive and this instrument will also give the possibility to use such apparatus - research, preparation in advance, if we are talking about advanced technologies, then they are of course necessary, certification, everything related to certificates and approvals. So this instrument will also support in financing the costs of advisory services, preparing an offer to attract the most promising investors I have mentioned, and in preparing the idea for the start of business, if someone who comes with the idea does not carry out such activities and will be interested in doing so. The envisaged budget for the benefit of one undertaking, i.e. the benefit of one originator, may, depending on the nature of the idea [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's 60,000. zł. We assume that next month, because we have to select an operator in competition mode, we will select such an operator and in the first half of this year this project will be implemented, so there will be an address and place to send such inventors back to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u32	Thank you. And I'd like to ask you for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You've given a very comprehensive answer. I don't know if there's anything else I can ask you, but I'll try. Unfortunately, the number of applications for inventions by domestic creators is gradually decreasing, while foreign applications are arriving, which may mean that the world is moving faster than we are. Do we have any analysis of the trend in the arrival of applications from domestic and foreign creators? One more question. The patent office is not allowed to advertise inventions. It is said that only the Patent Office Newsletter, where the applications are recorded, is issued. Could it not be possible for patent offices to carry out a larger information campaign on applications, especially among entrepreneurs, businessmen, investors, universities to be more interested in their notified inventions and thus further develop them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mr President, this is indeed a clarification of the question. I did not fully answer the first part of the question, on the right to protection and on how we can increase our interest in protecting intellectual property at all. There are two elements that you already process. Tomorrow, the patent attorneys' bill will be voted after second reading, which reduces the costs of proceedings. So we hope that this will also be an instrument that strengthens the interest of those who want to protect intellectual property by really reducing the costs of this procedure. This is the first element. Under this instrument, which I have just described to you, there will also be the measures necessary to carry out the procedure before the patent office. So that's also the element. Our role is, and so we see, to strengthen the interest of entrepreneurs and inventors in protecting intellectual property. Indeed, this interest on the part of those who should be interested is insufficient. The Patent Office primarily conducts promotional activities, because this results from the Act. He cannot carry out direct acquisitions of inventions that are subject to protection of property, while he carries out a wide-ranging information campaign about the value of protecting intellectual property. Surely these actions can be further strengthened. I think the role of other offices and institutions is to promote inventions. We hope that this good idea, which will serve it, will be the acquisition of these good projects, but these inventions, which are prepared e.g. in cooperation with the National Centre for Research and Development, we would like to promote and show more widely. We hope that this year's fair in Hannover will be a good opportunity for this event, where Poland is an honorary guest. There are many such inventions we take.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to more questions. Members of Cezary Tomczyk and Czesław Mroczyk - question on the purchase of multi-purpose helicopters for the Polish army. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. You will answer the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is 23 February 2017 and helicopters for the Polish army as it was not, it is not. We should've had a tender on helicopters for over a year, had 50 of them for different types of Armed Forces, we've got zero. We were supposed to have an offset for 10 billion zlotys, it's zero. We were supposed to have 5,000. jobs in Łódź and Radom, there are zero. There's a lot to say about you, but I'm sure you're a master of disinformation. You don't need any attorneys to do that. You need a student to do that. It's only fair to ask who you're disinformed: enemies, allies, Poles, or maybe you're disinformed yourself. Once upon a time, disinformation was called a lie, but in one and the other, you have reached the heights of intimacy. I mean, what do you call the situation different? On October 4th, you're pulling out of the chopper tender. On October 11, you say: the first two helicopters will be delivered this year. On October 16th, you're talking about a Polish-Ukrainian helicopter. On 8 November, you stated that the offer to Mielec, the one on 11 October, was never valid. On 21 November, however, you return to the October 11 version and say: the first helicopters will be delivered to the Special Forces by the end of the year. On January 10th, your disinformation officer says the helicopters will be between January and February. On January 18 you say that the first two helicopters for the Polish Special Forces will be at the turn of January and February. February 9th you say it will be March this year. On 21 February you say that this will be a tender, but in one communication you made gross errors, in one paragraph stating that the tenders have already been submitted and in the next paragraph that they will be submitted. I'll tell you what it looks like. Looks like you're trying to cover the whole thing up, which is why you're keeping this tender under wraps. Looks like you're gonna bring in two helicopters in the next few days, but please don't tell me it's gonna be helicopters to [[♪ The bell ♪]] cognitive tests, because it will be really funny, because it would mean that in the Polish army there are no helicopters and Poles, Polish troops still need to know them. You also say, if I may, Mr. Marshal, that NATO is the best way to stop Russia's aggression. I agree, but then why did you break off the helicopter contract, and the new ones may be next year, maybe in two years, and they'll be 70%. Less? Why did you leave the service of the best generals and 300 colonels, replacing them with Mr. Misiewicz, who became your proxy for the creation of the NATO Counterintelligence Centre? He also had an apothecary experience, but I don't know if it's necessary here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u37	Okay, sir, because you're already in the middle of a dilemma. Time's up, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u38	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u39	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u40	Please answer these questions, please tell us what the time limits will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u41	Thank you kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u42	This is what the Polish army is waiting for today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u43	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, What was just said would be even funny if it wasn't made up of half-truths, lies, misrepresentations, and, unfortunately, disinformation has to be said with regret. But I am grateful to you for asking these questions, because they will allow at least to some extent, unfortunately, due to a short time, to show how this matter has really been from the very beginning. Member or Member State reminds me, and rightly, to slip 60 or 70 days in the delivery of two helicopters. Indeed, such a slip has occurred and it is right to point it out to me. However, it must be recalled how the Civic Platform slipped and your contract with Caracal was defended. It was run by the Civic Platform over 1300 days. Not 50, 60, 70, but over 1,300 days. During these 1300 days, four times the object and shape of the order were changed. The law was broken in this way, obviously. Why was this law violated? Why has the order been changed four times? You know why. [[Bullshit.]] The idea was to eliminate Polish workers. The aim was to eliminate these plants producing helicopters, which are produced in Poland, which employ Polish engineers, who employ Polish workers, which develop Polish technical thought, which pay taxes in Poland. That was the essence of this 130-day delay you were implementing. It is worth remembering this, because it is worth remembering what the Civic Platform was really going to do in this action, which it carried out, I repeat, for at least 1300 days. What was the effect? You're right. You're right. You're right. [[You ended up at zero. You broke the contract.]] It is not true that there were only 50 helicopters. The Civic Platform announced 70 helicopters. Not 50, 70. These 50 were the result of a very long work of the Civic Platform, always aiming at... [[You broke the contract.]] ...to eliminate Polish plants, to eliminate Polish workers, to eliminate the fact that money will reach Poland. The proceeding concerning the first 16 helicopters was initiated and on 20 February, according to the scheduled schedule, the Armed Province initiated proceedings concerning the acquisition of eight helicopters in a combat search and rescue version in a special variant for Special Forces sub-groups and eight helicopters to combat submarines, additionally equipped with medical equipment to carry out search and rescue operations, search and rescue operations. The invitation to submit preliminary tenders was addressed to, first, the consortium of PZL sp. z o.o. and Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation. That's one thing. Second, to WSK PZL-Świdnik and to the consortium consisting of Airbus Helicopters société par actions simplifiée and Heli Invest sp. z o.o. All these companies have made themselves known, all have time to submit their offer by 13 March. I assure you, sir, that, unlike you, Polish workers will be given the opportunity to produce state-of-the-art helicopters... [[Which company is Polish?]] ...and the Polish army will actually get it and will be able to benefit from it - unlike the actions carried out by the Civic Platform, which manipulated it so that the Poles could not use their own money, but to go abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u45	Thank you. Additional question, Mr... [[Czesław Mroczek.]] Czesław Mroczek, yes. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is certain, Minister Antoni Macierewicz promised in the election campaign, he stated clearly, speaking of the tender for 50 helicopters, that this tender must be cancelled. He met at the end of September with an American lobbyist, former Senator D. Amato, and on 4 October this tender was cancelled. So much for admission from the point of view of who's guilty, who's responsible for the fact that the bid for 50 helicopters is down. Today one thing I know - that the Polish Army will not receive helicopters on time, will not receive thanks to the actions of the PiS government. And if you're counting the days, Minister, we've already got a year and a half of delay due to the fact that you've decided to cancel the tender. Today, as Minister of Defence, you are not able to say specifically when, in what terms you will terminate this proceeding, which is now being conducted, when the Polish Army will receive the equipment. Because you have to be aware that this procedure, which is going on right now, will take months. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll have to make those helicopters later. And then there's the operational capacity of those helicopters. Tell me when the Polish Army will receive the helicopters. This procedure you're conducting is a caricature of procedure, not a procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u47	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u48	You're driving, Minister... Mr. Marshal, one more sentence, if you don't mind. You're conducting this procedure, which you haven't told us about, as a matter of urgency. Do you have any idea what this urgent operational need was? Do you know what this urgent operational need was? In order to create papers, documentation for all the andronics that Minister Macierewicz told. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u49	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Mr. Darkness! Well, andronics, unfortunately, and I am sorry to say this, you repeat it constantly, but I agree, less than your club friend, Mr Neumann. Well, Mr Neumann, ladies and gentlemen, recently, on Sunday at one of the radio stations, I quote: "It has been cancelled... [[Answer my question.]] ...the deal, the French were chased out, who wanted to invest PLN 14 billion in Łódź and deliver helicopters to Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a limit to lies and absurdity. [[You've crossed it a long time ago.]] There's a line of impudence that shouldn't be exceeded. 14 billion PLN were you planning to invest in Łódź? And maybe 100,000 more. Do you want to hire people there? [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: When will the helicopters be here?]] Everything you say in this case is a lie covering one important thing: you wanted to eliminate Polish plants, you wanted to eliminate Polish workers, you wanted to eliminate Polish aviation industry and you wanted to give it all abroad and place 13 billion PLN there. That was your idea. These helicopters will be delivered to the military on time, sooner... [[When?]] ... sooner than your schedule predicted. And you know very well that I can't tell you about the deadline during the proceedings, which is why... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But when?]] ...that then I would limit the Polish side's negotiating possibility. Don't provoke me to act the essence of which would be... [[A tender or a negotiation?]] ...to hinder negotiations with entrepreneurs to deliver it. Because we want to negotiate the best price and we want to negotiate... [[Make a bid and negotiate.]] ...the best product, not the same as you sell everything to strangers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u51	Thank you. We'll proceed with the next question. Member of the Commission: Mr Jarosław Szlachetka, Mrs Joanna Kopcińska and Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko - a question on the functioning of free legal advice and possible improvements to this form of assistance for citizens. Question for the Minister of Justice. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Mr Marcin Warchoł, Minister Marcin Warchoł will answer. Please, a question, Mr Jarosław Nobletka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For more than a year, free legal aid, which, as the former Minister of Justice in the PO-PSL government said, was to be a priority issue, proved to be one major civil failure. The evidence of this is the trace number of advice given in powiats and municipalities under the Law providing for free legal assistance, among others. for poorer people, students or seniors. Among the approximately 21 million people from these groups of society and potential citizens, knowledge of free help or awareness of it is negligible, and interest, you can say, none. One of the main reasons for this may be a narrow group of addressees and a lack of information and resources. The programme's inventors have allocated funding practically exclusively to the remuneration of lawyers, i.e. 1 billion PLN per 10 years of the programme. The year of functioning of the institution of free legal assistance exposes and shows who it really was and is dedicated to today. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether the management of the Ministry of Justice, in connection with the poor functioning of an institution of free legal aid, which costs the state budget about PLN 100 million annually, will take steps to improve the current state of the case so that the resources allocated to the operation and creation of points to provide free legal assistance are not a further waste of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u53	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you for that question. Indeed, these figures are true. One of the flagship reforms of PO-PSL, so noisyly advertised in the media during the election campaign, turned out to be a failure, turned out to be a total failure. Only less than 3%, that's about 2%. persons entitled to receive free legal assistance. Moreover, 77% persons do not know that such legal assistance exists at all. I am no longer talking about the nature of this aid, the quality of the services provided. Most of this is information that can be obtained on the helpline, and it is not legal advice, or I will not even mention the direct help in drawing up the pleadings. However, citizens need not only information about whether a legal institution exists or does not exist, for example. period of limitation, but they also need specific assistance, advice on their particular case. What's more, statistics show that at the moment, on a 4-hour shift, it's just one, it's a maximum of two people -- that's 20 people per point. One person comes out on duty while it can easily accommodate four or five people. So unfortunately, this free legal aid, let's say it openly, doesn't work. We have concrete proposals for reform of this state of affairs. Part of the reforms are already being implemented. I would like to stress that since 1 January this year. We have introduced a law on the support of pregnant women and families to extend the circle of beneficiaries to pregnant women. We estimate 560,000. new beneficiaries will be included in this scheme. These are the women who need this help. We're betting on helping our families. The range of beneficiaries that the Platform has identified: up to 26 years of age and since 65 years of age, as well as those benefiting from social assistance, does not meet the real needs. This is where the social expectations of this type of aid have completely slipped away. One could say that a directory of people who are not the most in need was created blindly. The most in need are people of working age, those who have families who have different types of contracts, enter the labour market, are in the labour market, raise children, and here the need for state aid. Those are the people we're looking at right now. The first change that I mentioned is already - the law "For Life" extended the circle to pregnant women. The second change, which we are preparing, concerns the extension of the circle of people who benefit from benefits under the Act of 11 February 2016 on State aid in raising children. Here the number of eligible persons is estimated at almost 3 million people: with one child it is 780 thousand, with two children - 1600 thousand, with three children - 267 thousand, four and more children it is 60 thousand. A total of almost 3 million people. We also want to extend this to unemployed people who are not covered by this aid free of charge today, unless, of course, they benefit from services, from the provision of social assistance. The problem is that the audience currently looks so that unfortunately only those who benefit from social assistance are entitled, while - what I said earlier - the vast number of people in need are those who are, in quotes, too rich to be able to get social assistance, but too poor to go and pay a lawyer or legal counsel who would have provided such a service. So that we extend it to unemployed people whether they benefit or not. Then people with disabilities. This is a great oversight - it must be said directly - that people with disabilities have not been covered by this assistance. Over 3 million people will benefit from this title. Subsequently, persons who will be eligible for this aid on the basis of a specific income threshold. At the moment, we estimate what the income threshold would be. At the moment - what I just said - social assistance disqualifies a number of people who are not wealthy, but are not so incompetent as to be able to benefit from social assistance. This income threshold must therefore be set at a reasonable level. And that's what we're going to do here, too. Therefore, we estimate that more than 8 million eligible persons will go into the system. The system can withstand, successfully, four-five people on duty with this type of legal assistance, not one person, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What it's like now. Therefore, the changes are being prepared and will soon be announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u55	Thank you, Minister. And I'm asking you for an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u56	Thank you, Minister. I will ask: If you can already see what is the real map of interest in free advice, doesn't the Ministry of Justice provide for a reduction in the number of free points of advice only to those places where interest and needs are the greatest today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u57	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u58	Thank you very much. As regards a certain limitation, we believe that there is a real need for rationalisation here, namely, in the organisational sphere, it would be possible to link such legal assistance to the voivodships, connect it to the voivodships and introduce a list of non-governmental organisations that could provide free legal assistance. Such a list would be kept by the competent voivode, which would be guided by specific needs in the area of the voivodship as regards this free legal assistance, on the basis of analyses on an ongoing basis. This would remove, in practice, difficulties with the fact that certain points are overloaded, other points can be said to be empty, so that the even distribution of this legal assistance is also necessary. And one more thing I would like to emphasise, using the time given to me. Namely, Poles complain that this assistance is only dry information and often meet with such expectation from a lawyer or counsel who provides such assistance: if you want to get more, please come to the firm and pay. This can't be right. It cannot be that these are advices of inferior quality, advice that are merely an invitation to the law firm, that, you can say, lawyers or law elites catch their clients, using free legal assistance, from this system that was created by the state. This can't be right. That is why we are also wondering how to make a specific interference, whether not to link free legal assistance to the aid provided by law to those who are unable to do so by virtue of the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Code of Civil Procedure, and how to make the use of free legal assistance as one of the prerequisites of the latter system, so that it is not a fiction, but a real advice or even a helping hand in drawing up a pleading. A man comes to a lawyer and counsel, expects him to help him write a letter, not send him back to a law firm where he's gonna erase a lot of money for it, and here he's just gonna say two or three words and get rid of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Anna Sobecka and Mr Wojciech Zubowski - on the lack of proper supervision of the safety of dietary supplements. Question for the Minister of Health. Mr Krzysztof Łanda corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Please, as the first Mrs Anna Sobecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u60	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Supreme Audit Office's control shows that dietary supplements contain pathogenic bacteria and drugs. Laboratory tests of dietary supplements commissioned by NIK showed that many preparations sold in Poland do not show the characteristics declared by manufacturers. What's more, they happen to be harmful to health. The checks showed that there were dietary supplements containing e.g. pathogenic bacteria, fecal bacteria, substances banned from the list of psychoactive, similar to amphetamines. The market for dietary supplements is developing very dynamically in Poland. In 2015, the Council Poles spent PLN 3.5 billion on dietary supplements, buying nearly 190 million packages. The problem is, anyone can become a supplementer. Dietary supplements do not need to be tested as rigorously as medicines. Many Poles do not go to a doctor, but heal themselves by buying dietary supplements. Last year was record for the number of new dietary supplements on the market. They were introduced 7400 thousand. This reality shows that state regulations should not allow such unfair practices to be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u61	Thank you. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u62	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the Ministry of Health recognises the problem or problems raised by the applicants. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we must also remember that Poland is a Member State of the European Union and this also applies to this segment of the market as regards dietary supplements. EU regulations are in some respects... Of course, they also regulate the Polish market, are superior to Polish law and limit our ability to act, but I will present to you what actions and projects the Minister of Health is preparing. I will also read this sentence: However, it should be pointed out that the judgments of the European Court of Justice clearly indicate that, in the absence of grounds for confirming the risk to human health and life, the placing on the market of such a product cannot be blocked. Of course, dietary supplements are not allowed on the market, but it is simply a notification or a notification to the chief health inspector. So it's food. Supplements are food and are subject to food law. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we see here the need for regulation. Poles actually abuse dietary supplements. In fact, supplements, as the name suggests, should only be used if there is a missing element or a substance in the body. In fact, in today's world, such food shortages are extremely rare, in fact in the course of serious diseases or as a result of serious treatment, e.g. chemotherapy when treating debilitating diseases. In fact, at the moment we know that supplements behave like drugs, and therefore their sales and demand for these substances can be created by aggressive marketing. Of course, we see this dependence and this dependence is certain, because the more money is spent on marketing, the greater is the consumption of a given supplement. Of course we also see other pathological phenomena, i.e. contamination of these supplements, as indicated in the report of the NIK and as it was already underlined. But we also see that e.g. in one supplement is, let's say, a full postulated dose of this substance, which should be delivered within 24 hours for man, and this supplement costs 20 zł, while at this point a supplement that contains 1/2 doses is sold in terms of human daily demand, and costs twice as much, costs 40 zł. Of course, this preparation, which contains less substances, is sold only as a result of marketing, and the higher price allows the manufacturer to conduct more aggressive marketing. This, ladies and gentlemen, is, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Ministry, incorrect actions. Now about what we're planning. In fact, it is already prepared in the Ministry of Health a major pharmaceutical law amendment project. We are waiting for a decision on the parliamentary project at the moment. What, on the other hand, did we propose in this project? We are considering introducing fees for the notification of the placing on the market of dietary supplements and for changing these notifications - to the chief health inspector. Of course, we want to regulate advertising, i.e. advertising must not contain false content. So we don't want what the media often writes about, we don't want to restrict advertising, but we want to eliminate false content from advertising so that consumers are not bombarded with false information. We want to reduce the range of dietary supplements in pharmacies. This means that this preparation - this is the example that I presented to you - I think this more expensive preparation containing less of this substance, which is not proposed, should not be marketed in the pharmacy. Come on. Of course, we want supplements to be in some way easily distinguishable by consumers, i.e. distinguishable from medicinal products, and we will introduce, we will postulate the introduction of blue belt on all pack supplements. This appearance must be clearly different from that of medicinal products. Of course, we also want to limit the possibility of using the so-called. brands or umbrella names that mimic medicines. We want to introduce the need to study dietary supplements before they are put into the sale to pharmacies. We also want to ban the use of such tricks in advertising, that it is a doctor or a person who looks like a doctor who recommends the use of a given supplement, and introduce an absolute ban on advertising during a children's programme. These are the things we can, of course, introduce. I will tell you that the last positive thing is, I think, that the producer community itself sees these irregularities and at the moment introduces a code of ethics itself, subjecting itself to self-regulation. We do not yet know whether this code will be effective and whether this [[♪ The bell ♪]] Self-regulation will be effective or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u63	Thank you, Minister. And I'm asking you for an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u64	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! To confirm what you said, there's interesting information in the field of advertising. The National Radio and Television Council data show that from 1997 to 2015 the number of advertisements in the health products and medicines sector, including dietary supplements, has increased almost 20 times, while the total number of advertisements has only tripled. Interesting information is also that supplements produced by companies that produce drugs, meet the parameters and meet the expectations, are safer. This is important because the medicine undergoes a much more detailed procedure. And yet NIK also points out that on the market supplements appear [[♪ The bell ♪]] so-called. A grey zone where preparations that are not allowed to be marketed in Poland can be purchased, as the Minister also mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u65	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u66	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll just comment on the fact that the gray area is, of course, illegal. If any supplement does not have a notification, it has not been notified to the office, it should not be marketed. It's being chased by law. However, as far as supplements are concerned, there is really no requirement for practically any research here. Unlike medicinal products, which of course have to undergo preclinical, clinical and only subject to registration, a very thorough analysis by experts at registration offices, unfortunately the supplements of such a procedure do not pass, hence these impurities, hence, let's say, the scandalous addition of psychotropic substances or psychoactive substances to supplements. These are not substances that are lacking in the body and which can be delivered in this way. We also see the problem of advertising, but once again I stress: we do not want to ban advertising, we just want consumers not to be bombarded with false content in these advertisements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u67	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Mieczysław Mizga, Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec and Mr Kazimierz Moskal will ask a question about the Operational Programme The question is addressed to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation will answer Mr Marek G grubarczyk. Mr Mieczysław Miazga is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In view of the efforts made so far in implementing the Operational Programme "Fishing and sea', Action 2.5: Aquaculture providing environmental services, I would like to ask the question: Does the Ministry intend to withdraw from the implementation of the above mentioned programme. action or limit its scope? I would like to point out here that the approved Operational Programme "Fishing and Sea" for the first time since the implementation of European measures for the fishing sector puts aquaculture above sea fishing. It is therefore appropriate to ask: Has there been an adjustment to the rules agreed with the European Commission for funding in the planned actions? This is about increasing the financing of sea fishing at the expense of aquaculture. European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The operational programme for Poland - in order to provide support from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund CCI 2014PL - The operational programme of the "Fishing and Sea' assumes that the financial allocation of EUR 146 558 655 must be used by the end of 2017 and until today the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture has announced only a few calls for funding from Action 1.6: Permanent cessation of fishing activities, Action 1.10: Temporary cessation of fishing activities, Action 3.1: Control and enforcement, Action 3.2: Data collection and Action 5.3: Measures relating to turnover for the total amount of PLN 160 million. In view of the failure to comply with the requests for funding of the total amount set out in the Agency's recruitments and repeated recruitments in one action several times [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is doubt as to the fulfilment of rule n+3. Thus, who from the Fisheries Department is responsible for preventing the cancellation of the undertaking referred to in Article. 86.88 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union? Please provide precise financial data showing the progress of the implementation of the n+3 principle resulting from the calls for funding so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u69	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The operational programme "Fishing and Sea" which was adopted by the Commission in October 2015 was adopted on the basis of a concept prepared by our predecessors in the framework of the functioning of Polish fisheries, aquaculture and activities which resulted from the fishing industry. In the light of our strategy, in the light of the current situation and the near future, this programme does not correspond to actions in the field of Polish fisheries or activities in the field of aquaculture development. On this occasion, I would like to stress very strongly that aquaculture is an extremely important industry for us, which offers great opportunities for development, which is a very large reserve of jobs and which should develop with great impetus. On the other hand, the question, which specifically concerns action 2.5, does not directly serve the development of aquaculture. We can see that the measures that may arise in this area may be spent, will not be used directly for investment development. For us, the most important thing is the creation of an aquaculture programme that will serve the development, i.e. increase productivity, but also the creation of production of new species, especially those that are wanted on the market, and these are mainly salmon species. Of course, our proposal, which will be presented, will be discussed extensively with the environment, will be discussed with the producers. I'm sure we'll get a consensus. However, it must be noted that the situation of Polish fishing, as well as the Baltic Sea resources, is becoming increasingly dramatic every year. This is directly due to some actions which have so far been carried out in the Baltic Sea, particularly by increasing industrial fishing or feed fishing, which have a direct huge impact on the state of resources, above all, on the species of strategic markets for the Baltic Sea, i.e. cod fishing. Therefore, our activities in this area are designed to rebuild Polish fishing based on family fishing, coastal fishing, which has a huge history and which gives development opportunities. For the future, balancing Baltic resources, leaving them in good condition. On the other hand, the change in the nature of industrial fishing must, on the one hand, seek to limit these catches, on the other hand, to transform them gradually from industrial fishing, which are primarily intended for the production of fish meal and fish oil, into consumption fishing, i.e. those which go to consumers, into our tables. These are the main objectives of the change in fisheries policy, the revision of the operational programme, which are now in the debate phase with the European Commission. This is a long process which must, of course, be preceded by negotiations with the environment, so that everyone can benefit from this, here we must say, perhaps the last such large operational programme related to fisheries, with aquaculture. So these actions, these measures can't just be wasted. As regards the use of funds from the operational programme, the assumptions that were adopted in 2015 are EUR 146 million; these funds are currently in gradual spending. We assume that there is no greater risk of spending these funds in compliance with rule n+3. In 2018 we will present full payments related to the spending of these funds. Unfortunately, the programme was launched very quickly last year for a simple reason: the predecessors did not prepare the legislative process, which resulted in delays of almost 2 years. Today we are finishing implementation, preparing all regulations that will be involved in the process of spending funds. The person responsible in the Ministry shall be the Director of the Fisheries Department, who shall take care of the implementation of the programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then there's the last piece. To date, around PLN 138 million has been spent under actions 1.6, 1.10, 3.1, 3.2, 4.1, 4.2. 781 applications were submitted, this amount represents almost 5% allocated allocation for the programme. By 10 February, the intermediate bodies signed 580 contracts for the financing of 92 million, representing around 3% allocation for the programme. The highest number of applications for funding was submitted under Action 1.10, i.e. 560. The proposals made have taken advantage of 36% of the allocation. In terms of value, the largest number of applications for funding were submitted under Action 1.10: 149 for the amount of 62 million, which uses an allocation of 56%. Of course, most resources are spent on temporary cessation of fishing activities, i.e. 493 contracts for the total amount of PLN 32 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u71	Thank you, Minister. And I ask for an additional question from Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this comprehensive answer. A very short additional question. It is worth noting that we have the largest carp-like joint area in the European Union and the potential for carp production, and overall production in the Polish extensive aquaculture sector will be able to increase by means of adequately designed public aid depending on the maintenance or growth of farm production and the development of additional species production. And my question is: Does spending funds from the allocation of the Operational Programme concern action 2.5: Aquaculture, or a possible waiver or limitation of implementation of the above mentioned. the action will not result in an infringement of existing forms of aquaculture and will there not be a reduction in the production of carp in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u73	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer this question, we need to raise the fact that the previous aquaculture activities have produced an even opposite effect than the one we expected. I mean, the funds that were spent were used to lower the price of products just as part of carp processing, creating an uncompetitive market. The basis and objective of our action is to restore competitiveness, and thus to introduce rules that will enable the market and producers to manage themselves in the context of a closed or ending financial perspective. The worst thing would be what happened in the Baltic Sea that fishermen in previous periods, as well as now, were not and are not able to function without subsidies from the Maritime and Fisheries Fund. Therefore, these actions, which we want to introduce, are primarily aimed at creating an appropriate competitive market, are investments that are the basis for us, investments and development of aquaculture in Poland. On the other hand, what we are preparing and proposing to producers will be widely discussed with them, so that actions that are not needed or that have a negative impact on competition are gradually extinguished, and those which are needed as part of development, maintenance or security of production, serve precisely the safety and future of production in the carp industry. Thank you very much. [[Thank you, Minister, for a very comprehensive response.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u75	Thank you, too, Minister. And I'm asking you another question. Mr Jan Łopata and Mr Marek Sawicki, the Polish People's Party, ask a question about the road alliance, addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Mr Jerzy Szmit corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Please, Mr Jan Slopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After your last visit, Chancellor Merkel in Poland appeared articles, questions were raised as to whether this is already a two-speed Europe. These articles were marked with a question mark, but I think that the subject that we are discussing here with a colleague no longer needs such question marks. The nine European countries entered the so-called 'Paris' on 31 January 2017. road alliance. In our opinion, this is an alliance of unparalleled discrimination between our drivers and Polish companies. As we know, the signatories of the alliance declared a stronger fight against - as they called it - social dumping, i.e. the application of wages to drivers in the countries of the new Europe and the creation of unfair competition in road transport, which according to German or French companies are Polish carriers. These countries have signed an alliance, committed themselves to introducing new rules, among others. to implement solutions according to which drivers would return to the 45-hour rest guaranteed by regulations - on a weekly basis - to their countries. These conditions, of course, can be met by drivers from France or Germany due to their geographical location. Poles who carry out transport operations e.g. to Spain or Italy, they will not be able to take courses under these conditions. They'd have to rest almost two days in the middle of the route. According to the report on the situation of the international road transport industry, 62% The Union's transport market belongs to five countries, with Germany holding a dominant position. The report also shows that most countries are unable to adapt to German or French minimum wage regulations. We would therefore like to ask the Minister a question. How the Ministry intends to protect the Polish transport sector from the negative consequences of this alliance [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the growth of the gray zone? Secondly, the regulations introduced appear to be contrary to the Articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Finally, according to the Ministry, the road alliance will influence the work on the revision of the so-called. the road package that is ongoing in the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u77	Thank you. And the Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! The assessment of the situation with regard to international transport, the assessment of the Polish government is exactly what you presented: the so-called one. The road alliance, which was concluded on 31 January by nine European countries, is primarily threatening the interests of Polish carriers; not only Polish - generally Eastern European carriers, but also Spain, Portugal, because these countries also oppose these solutions. This is a functional thing in the business sphere, but absolutely - and I say it with full responsibility - we believe that this agreement is contrary to the Article. 57 and Article 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 58 of the Treaty on European Union, because it de facto sanctiones the fragmentation of the European market, fragmentation, i.e. such a concept, an approach in which no country applies any more... in which countries apply their national solutions in key issues for the European Union, in key economic areas for the European Union. One of them is transport. International transport should be free in the European Union. This good situation of Polish carriers is also due to the fact that they simply managed to exploit these opportunities, those opportunities which created the common European market after adoption, after Poland joined the European Union. Where did this road alliance come from? High Izbo, its origins are the MiLoG laws in Germany and Loi Macron in France, and thus operating in these two largest transport markets. These countries have introduced a minimum wage and have stated that the minimum wage should cover all services, including transport services. That, in turn, put on... Thus, on this basis it was concluded that also those carriers - Polish, but also from other countries - who carry cargo in Western Europe, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, these drivers should receive minimum rates which are recorded in German and French legislation. France went even further because, first, this minimum rate was set at an even higher level, more than 9 euro, and additional obligations were introduced, for example, that anyone who carries out transport in France must have a representative in France, must have all the documents translated into French, must make a special registration. Transporters must really translate into transport services. This is an absolutely dangerous thing. From the beginning, when these regulations were introduced, the government opposed them in different fields and different levels. First of all, what is extremely important here is excellent cooperation with Polish associations of carriers, with which we work together to counter these threats. For their part, carriers engage, mobilise associations of carriers in those countries which are threatened by these arrangements, those regulations. These are very spectacular activities: there were marches in Brussels, and there are also documents created by associations of carriers. The government, starting in 2015, by 2016, has done a lot of different activities, I speak a bit of the common language, I think about writing letters to individual countries. Poland also managed, which is extremely important, to organise an agreement of 11 countries, which in turn present a completely opposite position to the road alliance. This agreement was concluded earlier, it was a joint letter which was sent to the European Commission, to Secretary Bulc. At the same time, it must be said that, in view of the fact that we have highlighted this in many European fora, not only European, even in global transport forums, there is a proceeding in the European Commission to punish Germany and France for these protectionist practices. As far as the European Commission decides to bring a formal complaint to the European Court of Justice, we are not looking forward to it, but we are doing everything we can to make use of this path and this area of protest as well. In order not only to operate with political arguments, social arguments, we asked for the report to be carried out. It was done by world-renowned economists, these are Poles Prof. Konrad Raczkowski, Prof. Friedrich Schneider from Austria and Prof. Florent Laroche from France. We tried to make it a competent international environment for economists. They have made it clear that these decisions and regulations that are being introduced in France, Germany or those announced in the next countries, in Austria, are primarily contrary to the European Treaty, but they are actually against the interests of the economies of the European Union, as costs will simply increase. I'd also like to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's... I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u79	You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: I would like to say that, at the same time, we are taking steps to bring about a different regulation of drivers' wages in Poland. This is extremely important, because when it comes to the charge of social dumping, which is not defined, but is still so default, we want to oppose it. We have talked to both the carriers and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance in order to shape the wage components so that it can be said that these components, that the wages do not differ so much from the wages that are in the Federal Republic of Germany or France, but also that they are the fixed components that are covered and that are counted to the entire social sphere. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'm asking you for an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u80	Minister! Of course, I sympathize with you, and I am thinking about the role you have in this matter within the government to fulfil. To be honest, when I remember the PiS from the election campaign, first of all, you were supposed to have a good relationship with the EU countries, second of all, you weren't supposed to bow down to Brussels. You can see here that some EU countries, as you pointed out, are breaking EU rules. I have a question. In the last conversation with Chancellor Merkel, besides the President of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, whoever raised the issue of transporters in Polish-German relations and what Mrs Merkel replied. Secondly, if countries, Germany, France, have adopted minimum wage solutions for MiLoG, they want to implement them and impose them on other Member States, of course in transport, whether on the Polish side [[♪ The bell ♪]] there has been a suggestion and the need to expect the same solutions in relation to the large commercial networks, those international ones which are in Poland, so that Polish cashiers, Polish employees of these networks also pay at least minimum rates of Portuguese, French or German.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u81	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Maybe I will start with this second case, the evident inequality that we are dealing with in terms of the level of remuneration in large commercial networks, which are owned by companies from outside Poland and, above all, Western Europe. Indeed, this is a fact, there is no reason to argue that we are dealing with such a situation that wages in the same positions in Germany or France are quite different than in Poland or other countries. It's very good that you've been paying attention to this, because we should be discussing it. This is a fact which should be in the Polish public discussion just present. I will say that this topic was already discussed by Minister Adamczyk during the meetings in Strasbourg, which took place on 14 February. At the time we presented this report, which you asked about earlier, we presented the report, we presented arguments, but we also say that these voices also make wages in Poland in the same positions that are carried out in foreign companies, so that it is also similar when it comes to the payment in transport. Of course, this argument has not yet been answered, because our partners were not prepared for it, nor are they competent. I think we should repeat these arguments, also talk about it here, in the Polish Sejm, in Polish publicistry, in our conversations. We are already talking about this, I am talking about representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. We must act in two fields, in many fields, but the most important ones are to fight against the concept of social dumping, to regulate wage matters in Poland and, at the same time, to fight against those regulations which are introduced by Germany and France as much as possible. On the other hand, when it comes to Polish-German talks, this issue is always addressed at different levels, at parliamentary level, at European level. We're always on this case. I could quote here a long list of our speeches before Commissioner Bulc, in bilateral relations, not only Polish-German, but also Polish-French. These are normal actions that we take every day so that the situation of Polish transport does not deteriorate. I completely agree with the Member who said that the situation is very difficult. Indeed, it is very difficult, because the determination of both France and Germany to introduce it is enormous. MiLoG was part of a great coalition that operates today in Germany. In Germany, MiLoG was introduced after 20 years of trade union and SPD efforts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, the minimum wage derogations are treated as derogations from a solution that has been fought and sought for for many, many years, so we have to act hard, unambiguously, and that is what we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński and Mr Stanisław Gawłowski on the construction of the S6 road on the Koszalin section - the Tri-City ring road. Question to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Minister Jerzy Szmit will also answer. As the first Mr Zbigniew Konwiński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways did not enter the second stage of the tender in the formula design and build for the S6 road in the section Lębork - Tricity ring road, together with the Lębork ring road, due to the Ministry's disagreement. This term has already been moved many times, from September to November, and now to February. In 2015 a tender was launched for the first stage in the system design and build sections: the Koszalin - Słupsk ring road, the extension of the Słupsk ring road by the second lane, Słupsk - Lębork, Lębork - the Tricity ring road and the Tricity ring road. All these sections outside the Tri-City Metropolitan ring road, if this timetable were to be implemented, were to be completed in 2019. The state has very often spoken in the electoral declarations about supporting such smaller centres outside the major agglomerations. It is the S6 road that is such an example of supporting Koszalin land, the pole land, the development of this part of Poland, which is located outside these major agglomerations. From all the studies it appears that these are endangered lands so-called. the exclusion of communication. You often give an example that when it comes to the roads that the predecessors left behind, the tenders announced, the road construction plan, it is PLN 200 billion, and you have 109 billion on the roads. On the other hand, in the letters I received from you, also in one of the letters signed by Minister Szmita, there is a clear statement that the S6 road is provided with funding, is in progress and is within the limit of 109 billion PLN. Therefore, I have questions: What is the deadline for completing the S6 road for a new timetable? What's the new schedule anyway? As I understand it, these few months of delay mean that there is already a delay on this road. What is the reason for not moving to the second stage on the Lębork - Tricity ring road? When will the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction agree to move to the second stage in this section? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u85	Thank you. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! In this situation, although I have said this many times, in the context of the questions that I have been asked, I must remind you once again that the current National Road Construction Programme contains items that have been estimated at nearly PLN 200 billion and the financial limit at PLN 107 billion. Today we are making efforts to increase this limit, maybe this will work. On this scale, it won't be any radical growth. We really submit, as we also talked about from the beginning, this program of updating, revision, so that it can better, in our opinion, meet the communication needs of Poland. We are at the final stage of preparing this update. This is a very difficult task, because we do not deny the need to modernise and build any position that is included in this program. Few of this, we believe that other items should be included in this updated programme, and such other items, new items that have not been included in the current programme, will be included. This is due to the various in-depth analyses we have conducted. I hope that soon we will be able to present this proposal to the public. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the total value of the section from Gdansk to Koszalin along with the metropolitan ring road was estimated at PLN 7700 million. It is very diverse when it comes to the level of traffic. On the one hand we have a designed metropolitan ring road Tricity, an additional bypass which is most justified. We were deeply considering whether we should decide, however, not to announce this second stage of the tender, but it turned out that, unfortunately, an environmental decision was challenged there and today there is no important environmental decision as regards the metropolitan ring road. We can't just take this investment today, and there would certainly be a volume of traffic that would absolutely justify this investment. But in order not to move matters completely, at the same time we reported this project, this section, as one of our proposals for non-budget financing, i.e. outside the National Road Fund. We have reported this to the Ministry of Development and we are waiting for an opinion on this. If the opinion were positive, it would allow us to move faster on this investment as well. The second episode, which is vitally needed, and in our opinion as much as possible in the current financial situation and in accordance with our capabilities should be implemented, is the section from Gdynia may not be so much to Lębork as until the intersection of the new route, the newly designated route S6 with the old route. Let me put it this way: this is an issue that we are analysing in depth today, and we are very serious about trying, however, to provide funding for this section of the S6 road. But here - I am saying this maybe for the first time so unambiguously, but I think the Sejm is the most appropriate place for this - as far as the section of the road S6 further west is concerned, there unfortunately in this limit we are not able to modernise this road today, to build. What is started today about Koszalin, the connection between Szczecin and Koszalin, with the Koszalin ring road to Sianów, where the works go and they are not at risk, and I think they will be completed on time. On the other hand, we have proposed, we have started working on a completely new concept that can solve a lot of communication problems in the Tri-City agglomeration. That is, we want to show a new national road, which will come out of Gdynia, will also include a part of the so-called. The northern bypass of the Tri-City, or OPAT, will then go north to Władysławów. So it will solve the problems that occur on the old road, today marked as the S6 expressway, which passes through Rumia, Reda and goes on to Władysławów. As I say, this road is forever blocked, always filled with motion, and especially during holiday periods, then it is just completely impassable. So we are proposing such solutions, and I hope that soon we will be able to present them as concrete solutions that will be implemented. When - if we provide funding for the section between Gdynia and not Lębork - only the link between the old route and the new one, so designated today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] then it will be immediately decided to continue to implement, to organise a tender for this section, and then, in accordance with all procedures, the robot will go further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u87	Thank you. I would like an additional question from Mr Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'll do it again. I have a letter in front of me from February 2016 signed by Jerzy Szmit, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, it seems that it is you, from which it follows, here I will read only one sentence: This means that the construction of S6 is provided with funding. You just talked about all kinds of troubles, some new projects, some new episodes. You could add, and it would be true, that all the new things you want to introduce are to be realized after 2020, which is long after your governments, because it will take you much longer to get environmental decisions than you have to invest. You know, in the Western Pomerania - here also an appeal to Mr. Marshal, it is worth paying attention - it is said that PiS steals from the people of Northern Poland only because the inhabitants of this region [[♪ The bell ♪]] They didn't vote for the PiS and they voted for the Platform. I would like to ask you: Why do you not like Northern Poland so much, do you find it so difficult to make investments in this part of the country? Because if you could, you would also block the construction of S6 from Goleniow, from Szczecin to Koszalin, but you couldn't, luckily you couldn't, because the contracts had already been signed. Mr. Marshal, to you, you are from the Western Pomerania and I am very pleased that you are holding your deliberations today. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Really stand up for the interests of this part of the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u89	Thank you very much. Minister, before I give my vote to you, let me refer to Mr Gawłowski's words. Mr Staszek, I love the Western Pomerania and I also love Koszalin... [[I'm glad.]] ...so why all the demagogy? You're an ex-minister, ask substantive questions without this demagoguey. Talking about stealing from Northern Poland, Staszek, please... You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, because he did some of the things he did to me. May I say, therefore, that the Government of Law and Justice does not rob anyone from anything, especially any area of Poland, but our mission is to create a coherent communication area of Poland. A few months ago, and I think it hasn't changed much in the meantime, I had the opportunity to take the road that you are asking about, from Koszalin and before that from Szczecin as well. I drove by on purpose to see what this road really looks like. And if someone is telling me today, I'm telling you from my experience that the state of this road, its capacity is a restriction on economic development, that's it. It's just not true. It's just not true. [[How many months were you driving?]] Of course, the movement is different, it is bigger in the summer, it is smaller in other months, but it is so in many places of Poland if we look there. I don't want to exchange here. I don't want to compare here. Movement is different in our latitude, sometimes it is bigger in summer, sometimes it is bigger in winter, but that does not mean that today it is justified to say that this road, I am talking about S6 from Koszalin to Tricity, absolutely does not meet the conditions of normal communication. There are many, many places in Poland that are really in a much, much worse situation. Finally, I will say once again that we want to modernise this road and we will modernise it, just the question of whether it will actually be a few years from now. With regard to this letter, to which the Member was gracious to refer, to my statement, this was the situation at the time. Tonight, after analyzing the situation... You also mentioned that this is a letter from a year ago, at that time the situation has just changed. We analyzed, we wondered how best to use in the country's interests the measures we have, which in fact the government of PO-PSL left us, while blowing up the hopes of the whole Poland, that almost all communication wishes, road will be fulfilled, with full awareness. This programme was adopted, I will remind you, in September 2015, so one month before the election, pending that it will bring some specific, I understand, electoral benefits. Members, recently announced the latest public opinion poll, which shows that the Law and Justice will vote most in all voivodships, so there are no more voivodships in which the PO has an advantage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u91	We'll proceed with the next question. Mr Cezary Tomczyk is asking a question. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: He's already asked.]] Did he ask yet? Sorry, there's been a misunderstanding. Mr Jan Warzecha asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I address you on behalf of entrepreneurs and timber carriers who have been reporting to me for a few weeks, complaining that the police have recently stepped up the control of timber transport kits using longwood torsion trailers, the number of which in Poland is estimated to be 5 and 6 thousand. These trailers are designed for such transport, they are safe, but the only way to connect them to the vehicle is to do so with the material being transported - in this case wood. As the drivers claim, these types of trailers are much better adapted and ideally suited in forest conditions, because unlike semi-trailers, they move in turns of the tractor, they can be steered from the cab of the vehicle, which is especially useful on difficult and narrow paths, forest roads. It should be emphasized that vehicles of this type move on roads across Europe and also in Poland they are allowed to move through registration in old towns of both new and used trailers, including those imported from abroad. The police, on the other hand, retain the registration evidence during the inspection, supporting the definition that the trailer must be coupled to the towing vehicle with a rigid coupling. As suggested by the carriers, this provision is obsolete and does not correspond to the new long timber transport technology. The trailers concerned are factory products, have all the necessary tests and tests to allow them to move. The mere fact that these trailers are registered by the Old Town Communications Department should prove it. I therefore ask the Minister with the following questions. Each year 1,700 thousand are collected from the forest in Podkarpacie alone. m3 wood, and winter is a time of increased work of sawmills and carriers. As the vast majority of them use the caravans I mentioned, the problem is extremely pressing. How can we help injured carriers so that their companies are not forced [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the stops, and the workers in the sawmills until the break at work?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u93	Thank you so much for asking. Mr Jerzy Szmit is now responding to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen, This problem, which has arisen in the use of cars, which are exporting wood from Polish forests, has actually shown itself very strongly in recent weeks Well, ladies and gentlemen, the situation that existed has its roots a few years ago, when regulations have been issued that regulate what technical conditions must be met by the cars that carry wood, especially the long wood balls exported from the woods. We have the situation that these registered cars come to Poland for the first time outside Poland, are used by carriers, but at the same time do not meet those standards which are expected in Poland. They drive on foreign registrations and have the right to do so in the European Union, but they are indeed registered by vehicle inspection stations and then their technical condition is questioned by the police. Unfortunately, and I confirm that too, there have been a lot of cases in recent times where the registration evidence of cars exporting wood from the woods is withdrawn. The point is that with regard to the technical conditions that they must fulfil, the police state that they do not comply with those conditions, which is necessary to ensure that these cars are simply safe. On the other hand, the intensity of the control was triggered at the end of 2016 by the Association of Engineers and Communication Technicians of the Republic of Poland Branch in Kielce, which applied to the Police Headquarters for action to eliminate these vehicles. So here we are dealing with some information that has been given to the police. The police took action and, unfortunately, it turned out that some of the cars did not meet these conditions. I ask you to try to solve this problem, today, at twenty-three o'clock. 14 will start at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction meeting, which will be attended by representatives of the Chief Inspector of Road Transport, the Police Headquarters, Transport Technical Supervision, as well as approval units, automotive transport and Industrial Motorization Institute, but also carriers, those who are the most, you can say, interested in solving this problem. We will be looking for solutions that will ensure safety, because these are loads that, in their mass, are actually dangerous in their weight. If the conditions are not met, they simply threaten safety, and there is no discussion about that. We want, first of all, to find a transitional solution, for today, which will allow wood transport from the forest to continue in a way that is not threatened. But in the longer term, it is about legislative solutions that will definitely resolve this problem. So, in conclusion, there is indeed a problem, but we are already taking the appropriate measures to solve it. Today at the hour. 14 this meeting will begin first. I hope that there will be no need for a great tour of discussions and debates, but this matter will be resolved quickly. Thank you very much. [[Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u95	Thank you very much. The second question is whether the supplementary question is asked again by Mr Jan Warzech, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u96	Minister, I'm glad it happened or there's a meeting with the carriers, but it's urgent enough that there's a season at the moment. Earth is frozen in winter. It's really a wood-export season. Shouldn't it be in agreement with the police, the Road Transport Inspection, to discuss the temporary suspension of these, let's call it restrictions on carriers? They've got contracts, they've won tenders. Today, stopping these exports is related to losses not only for carriers, but also for sawmills, which are engaged in woodworking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Szmit again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I hope, more than I hope, that today's meeting will serve. Such individuals have been given the task of finding a solution to this problem as soon as possible so that, taking into account the security conditions, but also the functioning of economic life, such a solution can be found. And I hope that we will be able to inform about this as soon as possible and start applying these solutions that will be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u99	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the use by the President of the Council of Ministers and the President of the Republic of Poland of CASA military transport aircraft for private purposes, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will be discussed at this meeting. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Mariusz Witczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The public was informed of the shocking facts surrounding the use of COSA military transport aircraft for private purposes by the Prime Minister and the President. The function of these planes, turns out, is the transport home, they are air taxis with waiting, because almost every Friday the casa takes off on board with the Prime Minister, flies to Krakow or Katowice. From there, the Prime Minister is being transported home. Many representatives of the BOR, the BOR officers, are involved in all of this. This is based on two columns. The Prime Minister needs to be transported to Okęcie. On the lava he travels to Krakow or to Katowice an armored car. And that's where the Prime Minister or the President is being transported home. Ladies and gentlemen, as the media have established, such a single flight costs Polish taxpayer 34 thousand. zł. As the cost of transporting an armored car and additional costs add up to all of this, this dinner on Friday evening by the Prime Minister at home costs almost every Friday 50,000. zł. Probably the most expensive dinner in the world. [[That's rude.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what do you call this situation? Is this Byzantium? No, it's more than that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a struggle with money of a Polish taxpayer and it is a pathology of power. Minister, this is the pathology of power - the use of military aircraft for this purpose. But I'd like to remind you that... [[Octopus.]] Mr. Marshal, may I? [[Mr. Marshal, please respond.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u101	Very well, ladies and gentlemen, you are interfering with the Member's statement on a very serious matter, in his view, so let's... [[He's lying.]] ... Let's get this speech over with.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! The use of casa involves grounding three cas, i.e. This is the removal of three aircraft from the Polish army, a Polish soldier, which should be used for the purpose of raising national security, security of Poland. And if the president's on the move, we've got six planes off the military circuit because that's the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! With the travels of the Prime Minister and the President, as you know, there are costs, and that is what I am about to ask Minister Kempa in detail, but also security procedures. And, Minister, please answer to all of us precisely, the public opinion, the Poles, how many such flights were carried out by the Prime Minister and the President casa. What is the specific cost for the Polish taxpayer, how much does the Treasury cost? Tell me how you follow the HEAD procedure, since the case does not have that status and should not transport the President and the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me on this occasion how you secured the Prime Minister on the day, on this fatal day of February 10, when the accident occurred. Please remember that Minister Błaszczak said that at hours. 18 car driver started working. That's not true. Please tell us specifically what was the working time of the driver's car when he took the gun. Please tell us specifically why the rescue helicopter that came after the prime minister was out of fuel, had a stopover in Kielce. And here is a specific question: Was the Prime Minister on board during the refueling of the helicopter, Minister, and was there a representative, a BOR officer with the Prime Minister when she flew a helicopter to Warsaw to the hospital? And here's an amazing situation, Minister, and I'm asking you to answer that question as well. Why, on 10 February, the head of the BOR amends Order 19 which has been in operation since 2004, so that the Prime Minister can be taken to the hospital on the street. The Shasers, not - as usual - on the street in recent years. It's a Volatian. What did he do? Did he prevent this order? Was he a visionary on February 10th, he knew that there would be an accident and that we would need to change the procedures and take the Prime Minister not on the street. Wołoska to the hospital MMSWiA, only to the hospital on the street. Shasers? Please answer these questions precisely. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ah, substantively and on the subject.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u103	Thank you. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartosz Kownacki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised at those smiles on your faces. In fact, I could have asked a question that was first formulated in writing slightly differently, you expanded it, answered it in one sentence, because the level of lying and hypocrisy of the Civic Platform politicians is enormous in this matter. [[Applause]] Well... [[Your contacts, Minister, specifics. Answer me.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you to add to my time when my speech will be interrupted. It is not true, and you know it well that Prime Minister Beata Szydło uses military air transport for private purposes. [[That's a lie.]] And it's not true. that's all you're spreading in the media - yesterday former Prime Minister, Minister of National Defence Siemoniak, today some newspapers that supposedly Prime Minister Beata Szydło 50 times last year flew CASA on a military plane to Cracow. With this information, it's like the Radio Erevan joke. Is it true that in Moscow, in Red Square, they hand out Mercedes? Yeah, it's true, it's just not in Moscow, it's in Leningrad, it's not in Red Square, it's in the New Prospect, it's not Mercedes, it's in the bikes, and they're not giving away, they're stealing. And that's exactly what it is with these flights. Yeah, it's true, it's not a case, it's a case. A lot... [[How much?]] ...more expensive in the passage and much more comfortable embraer, not 50, but more than 200, not to Krakow, but to Gdansk, and not to Prime Minister Szydło, but to Prime Minister Tusk. [[Applause]] [[Oh...]] And that's where we should stop, but I'd like to... [[But this year, Prime Minister Tusk? Yes?]] ...a few facts. First of all, you are well aware of this, because this is due to the rules of everyone already known, that the Prime Minister, as one of the most important functions in the State of persons, has the status of HEAD. And it's not a choice for the Prime Minister. This is due to the rules that have been in force for many years and for security reasons. The HEAD manual, which concerns the transport of the most important persons in the country, was adopted in 2013 by the Minister of National Defence, Tomasz Semoniak. And you know it well, and today you are trying to build an incredible sensation around the transport of the most important people in the country. I'm sure Minister Darkenk knows that. [[I'll get back to you on that later.]] Mr Mroczek certainly knows that according to Decision No 449 of the Minister of National Defence, Mr Tomasz Semoniak of 31 December 2013 was transferred to the Sejm Office, the Polish President's Office, the Prime Minister's Office and the Senate Office for Military Air Transport. Flight 10 February 2017 was implemented precisely on the basis of these decisions - decisions that were issued even during the time of the Minister of National Defence Tomasz Semoniak. It was a HEAD status flight, in accordance with all procedures required at the time. It was a flight with the status of HEAD, because there are such regulations, and I hope that no one in Poland will question this. Moreover, it was the Civic Platform in 2012 that bought five VIP lounges for CASA aircraft. Then, Minister Darkness, why did you buy these VIP parlors? Who would fly them if today you're questioning that the most important people in the country are using these planes? Why don't you tell me that CASA's flight is nearly three times more expensive than an embraer flight? [[More expensive?]] Yeah, three times more expensive. Why don't you say it? Why don't you tell me that casa, although it's actually less comfortable, is a safer plane and this flight is safer than an embraer flight? Why don't you say it was Minister Klich in 2011 who gave the airmen special bonuses, special allowances for transporting the most important people in the country? These are facts. And I'll say, ladies and gentlemen, a thing I think we need to pick up here. Finish this chuckle dance around the transport of the most important people in the country. [[Who's talking?]] It's happening all over the world. And you, as the Civic Platform, have the slightest right to talk about it because it's you who have blood on your hands because you've been doing this cocky dance with the media for the last few years. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, it's a scandal.]] We remember what happened... [[Scandal.]] ...in Brussels, we remember what happened later in Smolensk. [[And who worked at the President's Office?]] And you have the nerve to ask that today? [[Voice from the room: Who prepared...]] You have no right to speak on this matter. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[You're lying.]] Yeah, because decency forbids, because if you have the blood of 96 people on your hands because of this chuckle dance, it's quiet today. That's all you can do. [[Applause]] In this case, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of whether the most important people in the country are using, among others. from air transport, because this is the standard all over the world. The question on this issue should be: What are the most important people in the country flying and who is responsible for this? When you took power in Poland in 2007, we had two large and four small planes to transport the most important people in Poland. When you gave it back in 2015, there was no plane at the State Ministry of National Defence. This is the measure of hypocrisy, degrengolad and the fall of the rule of the Civic Platform. In 2011, you wound up 36. The Special Transport Aviation Regiment and you thought there was no problem, since then there will be no transportation of the most important people in the country. A year later, in 2012... [[By train.]] ...you closed the tender, almost ready, to buy two large and four small planes. Well, now that you've eliminated the Specialist, we're gonna have to take down the planes, no problem, we're not gonna have a bid like this, because why? It is also worth watching the transport of the most important people in the country in other countries, and this will be the size of the collapse of the Civic Platform government. For comparison in other European countries: France has 15 aircraft to transport the most important people in the country, Germany - eleven, small Belgium - eight, Spain... [[What about the question?]] ...a country similar to us - seven, Czech Republic - four, Belarus - two, only much better than those used, rented embraers. You have placed the safety of the most important people in the country after the experience of April 2010 below even in Belarus. Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause]] Aren't you ashamed to ask about it today and make a story about it in the media? Maybe somebody should answer... [[How much does it cost?]] ...to ask for the omissions that have occurred over the years. Why were you doing this in whose interests? Was it just to look nice in tabloids, or were you afraid that one of the papers would describe it? Did you cover up the safety of the most important people in the country just to keep the polls going? What is your responsibility for the state and have you done exactly the same in other areas of life - what the public will say and what the polls will say, and not what is the state's right and the interests of the state? I wonder how it is possible that the Civic Platform has the audacity to ask such questions - the Civic Platform, which has made itself an ambulance taxi. [[How much does it cost?]] It was Prime Minister Tusk and Minister Kopacz who used the Air Rescue chopper to transport, breaking all safety rules. There's no Prime Minister Kopacz here, but I'm wondering if, as a doctor, her heart was shaking, that this helicopter might have been needed to save someone's life or health. [[Applause]] But... [[What about three cases?]] ...the Platform's incompetence led to the fact that there was no other transport for the most important people in the country, that you had to use an ambulance as a taxi. Shame. [[Voice from the room: Shame. Disgraceful.]] And one more picture from the last few days. Well, you all know that the status of HEAD requires very serious rigors, very serious restrictions for a person who is protected. It's not a privilege, it's a limitation. You talk about this, also part of the media, that you could ride the train, and the pictures of Prime Minister Kopacz, who was driving the train, are shown. [[Yes, sir. Second grade.]] You just forgot to add that it was during the election campaign and that Prime Minister Kopacz was on an empty plane Embraer, whose flight hour costs 50,000. zł. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[That's not true, Minister. Don't lie to me.]] This is the level of your hypocrisy. [[Applause]] [[Don't lie to me.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition has the right to ask questions... [[Voice from the room: Then you have to answer the questions.]] ...because that's what it is, and the government has a responsibility to answer. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[We hear you.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there are also principles of decency and responsibility. And the Civic Platform on the transport of the most important people in the country has one particular right, one particular obligation: to remain silent. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Minister!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Mariusz Witczak made a formal request. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u106	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to ask for a five-minute break. As a justification, I propose that Minister Kownacki cool off, look into the dictionary of Polish and read what slander is. [[It's impossible.]] This is the formulation of accusations without coverage. Minister, this is a scandal, it is a great scandal that you accuse Members of the Civic Platform, claiming that they have blood on their hands for the Smolensk disaster. Everyone knows that and you know that procedures and responsibilities apply to the President's Office. Don't lie to me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u107	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. 29 ladies and gentlemen have come forward. I'm closing the list of speakers. Time, two minutes. Time is set for two minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Please, as the first Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! No emotion, sir. There's nothing to argue with with the facts. There are facts, and everyone knows them. And as for what you did in 2008, 2009 and 2010, I recommend a library, an archive. Read the media reports on how you dealt with the then president, how the Civic Platform, Donald Tusk and your political establishment functioned, acted and what they did in the national and international arena. I absolutely agree with what Minister Kownacki said. But, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, not so long ago, because on 21 February, in a conversation with Marcin Zaborski on Radio RMF, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, former Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz answered: Every Prime Minister has the right to fly casa. I didn't fly the military casa home. Of course it was the law, but don't drag me out to talk about my successor, because I try not to criticize a person who is actually a very responsible person and I know how hard. I have been Prime Minister for 12 months, and I genuinely believe today that the Prime Minister, even if she had used it, had the right to do so, that's all. That's what Ewa Kopacz said in the afternoon interview on Radio RMF. Minister! My question is, among other things, related. with that speech. Is the use of military flights the authority of the most important people in the country? If the Polish State had enough aircraft to carry the most important persons in the country, we would not be discussing that the most important persons in the country travel in more or less comfortable conditions and [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who bears the greatest blame, whose omission, that we still have an open mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u109	Very...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u110	...trades for the delivery of airplanes to serve the most important people in the country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u111	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform - a question or voice in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister and the Member seem to have forgotten that law and justice have been under rule for 1.5 years. And it is the Law and Justice that is responsible for how the most important people in the country are protected today. It was the government that decided who was at the head of the services responsible for protecting the most important people in the country, and finally you are making decisions regarding the purchase of various modes of transport and decisions... Here the Minister mentioned that during the Platform's reign two planes were sufficient to serve VIPs in Poland. That's what happened, Minister. Two planes were enough, and now the Minister says more is needed. But how many planes did you buy? You bought two, which is exactly the same thing, and now, for the purposes of this discussion, you are creating a completely false argument just to discuss the subject here, only to answer questions, Minister, not to answer questions, but to multiply various types of attacks against the current opposition, just because the answer to the basic question of VIP security is uncomfortable for you, because it is you who are responsible for the security of the most important people in the country, about a year and a half ago. Therefore, I would like to ask whether your flights are carried out in accordance with the provisions of HEAD's instructions, whether verification flights are carried out before military flights by both the aircraft to be carried by the Prime Minister and the alternate aircraft, which should also be used, in accordance with the HEAD's instructions, during the transport of the most important persons in the country. Finally, the question is: Are the flights carried out by the Prime Minister in such a way that the Prime Minister uses military aircraft which perform a different task, flying from the north of Poland to Krakow, and during the course of this other task there is a stopover in Warsaw so that the Prime Minister can take advantage of this aircraft? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u113	Thank you. Now you have the floor of Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is outrageous. This money could be spent on hundreds of other things, for example. For failing hospitals. These are the words of Minister Błaszczak spoken when he was president of the club Law and Justice a few years ago, about business trips by planes, mainly to Gdansk, Prime Minister Tusk. After all, it was also necessary to realise that you might one day be able to have exactly the same allegations, because the State must be able to afford to secure the most important people in the country's service. This service is also traveling, moving from one place to another. I have a question: What happened today that you are acting differently, that instead of flying chartered embraers, you are flying casa? After all, the Prime Minister said from this place during her exposé: Together we form a white and red team. What about today? Today he is ashamed to fly in white and red colors, Polish plane. That's the truth. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Speak to the point.]] Please don't disturb me. What are the real reasons why he flies the casa? Isn't it sometimes a desire to hide... [[You're way out of line.]] ...just the cost of the flight? If it weren't for this accident, you'd be convinced that they'd never leave. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u115	Mr Krystian Jarubas, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u116	Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There's one in Warsaw. Transport Air Force Base. It has helicopters for the most important people in the country. It has five PZL W-3 Falcon helicopters in the VIP version. Minister, President Kaczyński didn't mind flying in June. a helicopter belonging to the MMA from Świnoujście to Kraków, although it is not known whether it should be the owner of the helicopter according to the regulations. My question is: Why doesn't Prime Minister Szydło use this means of transport with full rights and opportunities to travel helicopters for VIPs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u117	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Byzantium for the government was, but for the Civic Platform. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The opposition politicians seem to have set themselves the goal of starting a newer row. This time they decided to raise the noise about the flights by Prime Minister Beata Szydło on the CASA military plane, much cheaper of course than the embraer. Without thinking about it, they press charges, thus showing only that they care most about bringing about chaos. [[Is that more expensive or cheaper?]] It's also another proof of double standards. If the President of the Council of Ministers or the President of the Republic of Poland travels by military plane, then it is certainly all done in accordance with procedures. First of all, they have every right to do so. We must bear in mind that these are some of the most important people in a country to which security must therefore be ensured at the highest level. I have questions for the ministers. Didn't the prime ministers or ministers take advantage of the possibility of travelling by air or military helicopters during the PO-PSL coalition? How often were aircraft and helicopters used under PO-PSL? Didn't Donald Tusk travel by embraer to his home in Gdansk? How often did Donald Tusk travel by plane as an air taxi, and how much did it cost Polish taxpayers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u119	Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After recent events, even a child in Poland knows that the Office for Government Protection under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration is responsible for protecting the most important people in the country. Therefore, I would like to know whether the inability of Minister Błaszczak to manage one of the most important resorts in the country is involved in the protection and transport of the President and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland.The Polish Army and military aircraft, which are designed for landing troops, for training, transport of troops or military equipment to places where war activities are carried out. We all know very well how the MMA and its subordinates operate under Mr Błaszczak's rule. We all remember the good changes at the Police Headquarters or the Government Protection Office. We remember the great entrance of Chief Maja and his fall even greater. We perfectly remember staff movements in the Police and Government Protection Office, where experienced management and individual officers were wiped out by PiS broom or degraded to lower positions and degrees and then replaced by PiS supporters and people from the catch. We remember perfectly the confetti cut by the police in honor of the great Mr. Podlasie. We also remember the angelic procession performed by police officers led by the priest's housekeeper. We perfectly remember accidents, collisions or road events, including tyre scandals, ladies and gentlemen, with the participation of President Duda or Minister Gowin, and a fairly recent Toruń charge of Minister Macierewicz. Given the inability of Minister Błaszczak, please answer the following questions. Do you plan to make changes regarding the protection of the most important people in the country in such a way that the protection of these entities is entrusted to the military? Are you planning to continue using military equipment to transport the most important people in the country? If so, I would suggest using battlecars or tanks whose trees are not scary. And the most important question, Minister Kownacki. You've been throwing insects at all of us here, and it's also about a story that was absolutely missing the truth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you give a specific answer to one question? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u121	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just the topic of transport of the most important people in the country shows that what the Modern says from the very beginning of its existence, i.e. that our country needs to be better organized and can be better organized for the same money, is absolutely crucial. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past 20 years, the political class has lacked the courage to approach with due seriousness the issue of transport of the most important people in the country. You're still taking surrogate measures, afraid to make decisions. There was also a lack of courage and still lack of courage to follow the procedures that are precisely relevant to the transport of the most important people in the country. This is, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for the word, just crap. That's absolutely not how it's gonna work. Ladies and gentlemen, the PiS government has delegated the worst Minister of Home Affairs in Poland's history, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, to ensure this protection. [[No, Macierevich yet.]] You say you have the best Prime Minister in the latest history of Poland... [[Right.]] ...but it is protected by the worst Minister of Home Affairs in Poland's recent history. Ladies and gentlemen, this will not work. I wanted to ask whether the persons who carried out the transport that day, whether the operation of this air transport had the appropriate powers, whether it was verified and when the last time the verification of the rights of the persons who carried out the transport of the most important persons in the country was carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u124	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Conditions for travelling by aircraft, including: by the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, sets out the HEAD's instructions on the organisation and security of flights involving the most important persons in the country. The instructions after the Smolensk disaster were changed and added further safety-related enhancements. The instructions also specify the conditions to be met by the aircraft to which the VIP is transported, including: what should be the equipment of such an aeroplane related to the safety of the person being transported. And my question: Does the CASA military aircraft meet all the requirements of the HEAD manual? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u125	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased that it is time to strengthen the safety of the most important people in the country. Minister, why hasn't the Polish government tendered for the purchase of airplanes for the most important people in the country for a number of years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mrozek, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the use of military aircraft by the Prime Minister to travel home and back from work, while we have some hysterical, demagogical speech by the Deputy Minister who entered his boss's shoes and is actually doing it even more violently than he is, he can't actually refer specifically to anything that we should be discussing here today. Ladies and gentlemen, you must explain why the Prime Minister of the Polish Government uses military aircraft to get to work and back. [[It's not for work. It's for home. Home.]] It's just a simple explanation. Not for Members of the Platform, not for Members of the opposition, because we know this story. You'll have to explain to the Poles. So the demand for aircraft flights which the Polish government has purchased for the most important people in the country has increased, that there is no longer room in the embraera, that military planes need to be used. I understand that your formation will no longer use cars, your formation will only use airplanes, flying to and from work. [[Applause]] There is a problem of emotions that disqualify a government official, and what we have heard here today in the statements of the Deputy Minister disqualifies you, Mr Kownacki, from the point of view of serving as Deputy Minister of National Defence. In this job, you have to have not as much steel nerves as you have to control your emotions. [[And you have to tell the truth.]] You, on the other hand, did some sort of show of hysteria and demagogy here just. You don't have a clue about history, I mean. About the tasks you're doing. Come and answer why military planes, instead of being used for military tasks, instead of protecting the security of the Polish state, serve [[♪ The bell ♪]] as a means of getting to work and back. Can anyone in this formation make sense...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u129	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u130	...to say two sentences? [[Applause]] [[Makes sense, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u131	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Kownacki! I don't think that's what this debate is about today. There are these questions. We're not talking about the opposition. We're talking about your governments. We're not talking about the Prime Minister and the governments of another party. Your shoe, Minister Kownacki, knows no bounds. You're defending yourself by attack, but this is not the way out of this situation. I heard on yesterday's show where Mr. Sasin spoke and said that CASA is a plane that still has to fly its number of hours, so nothing will happen when it flies with the Prime Minister. And I'm holding my head because I'd rather you didn't train flights with the Prime Minister of the Polish Government on board. This is said by a man who recently said, being a minister at the Office of the President of the Republic, that he did not know that the airport in Smolensk was dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen! Too many cases these days. Now we've got a situation where the premier's car is hitting a tree. Is that normal, too? Don't we need answers? The plane is an aircraft, not an air taxi. Non-compliance with procedures is very expensive in this case, but it is very expensive, as we have already seen. I, ladies and gentlemen, have no problem with the Polish Prime Minister flying a plane. I mean, I'd definitely be a bigger opponent for the Prime Minister to drive a bus or pretend something. We've had too much of this pretending for many years, and for that we pay a very great price - the price of normality. But, for God's sake, I appeal and ask for humility and observance of procedures and laws. And more humility, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question at the end, because it has to sound.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u133	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u134	Prime Minister, why aren't you flying the better embraer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u135	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club of Law and Justice, now has a voice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, following the lead of what my previous speaker said, we need to clarify something. I would like to know if it is true and why Mr Donald Tusk and Mrs Ewa Kopacz flew from Warsaw to Berlin on 26 September 2010. Why did they go there? That chopper was supposed to be on emergency duty that day. Do we know how many people could not be helped at that time just because these countries went to Berlin? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u137	Thank you. Now Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister may have tried 10 minutes not to us, but to all those people who are looking at this discussion to explain something. But what are you afraid of? Minister, there were specific questions about how much it all costs. We ask you very much on our behalf, on behalf of the Civic Platform, but also, I think, of all citizens, to answer the question of exactly how much such a flight, Minister, costs. Why are you afraid to say that these are tens of thousands of zlotys spent so that the Prime Minister can go home? You said that public life should be transparent, so we demand it. Please tell us exactly how many of these flights were made. One casa, hour - 30,000, the other casa is standing by - another thousand, the third casa is waiting in Cracow, 2 columns of BOR. Is the weekend Mrs. Prime Minister 150,000? Evil? Why are you afraid to tell your citizens how much your power costs? You're afraid, and you're talking about the Civic Platform. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of, Minister? [[Nothing.]] We want to be clear about this. These are tens of thousands of zlotys every week. It's worth saying this, not all the time talking, talking, talking, but not at all about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u139	Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u140	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! During his speech, the Minister said that the casa were safer than the embraers. Therefore, I would like to ask: How many accidents were there, possibly some accidents involving casa, and how many with embraers? If you don't know the answer now, and you probably don't, then I would ask you to check and answer in writing, if that's possible. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think we should be playing demagoguey. Being Prime Minister costs money, and it seems to me that all those governments that were before this government, also, ladies and gentlemen, when you were in opposition, you criticized the other side, that you spent on business trips or that you were coming home. I would agree with my esteemed predecessor from my club, Mr Grzegorz Furga, that it would be strange if the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, whoever he is, would ever be, would be hitchhiking home. Let's not play demagoguey. [[By train.]] It's got to be expensive. The important thing is whether or not we're doing this in accordance with procedures, because if there are procedures at risk anywhere, if we have old equipment, then we're really hurting ourselves. Let's not play demagoguey. Let's spend the money if we have to, but let's just say it to people. Then you have to make sure all the clubs agree to spend that money. Then we won't argue about this anymore. We're wasting time here. The most important thing is whether the procedures are followed. And that's my question, Minister. I would also like to ask you how to fly to London, because there were reservations that this plane was overloaded, that there was a problem with the passenger list. Therefore, I would very much like to ask you again for an answer, as it was. I know the D.A.'s office dropped the investigation. But wasn't there some procedure, maybe they were bent? I would very much ask for an honest answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u141	Mr Marek Polak, the Law and Justice Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u142	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the vast majority of European countries and not only the transport of the most important people is carried out by military pilots using only aircraft adapted and designed for this purpose. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, in France, where the French Air Force squadron carries out this task, similarly in Germany, Italy, Belgium, Sweden and the United States and other countries. Our country is one of the few countries where the president and members of the government have to use civil aviation. The reason for this is the decision of the previous ruling team to deform the 36th Special Regiment, which until the tragedy of Smolensk carried out the task of transporting VIPs. I wanted to ask the Minister: Is the government concerned about ensuring an adequate level of safety and quality of flights of the most important people in the country considering setting up a special unit to carry out this task? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u143	Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Moderation is the word key. Moderation is something you certainly don't have. No moderation in the use of airplanes, with cars, dozens of officers, columns, cocks, overtaking on double continuous in the built-up area. That is indeed the key word: moderation, which you do not have. But perhaps it is true that your moderation is not characteristic. Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister Szydło said this: I would love to travel by means of communication, but I cannot do this. That's not true. Many times with Prime Minister Kopacz I traveled by means of communication, we took a train, a second class. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then we heard from you, Prime Minister Szydło, that from behind the glass we were watching Poland, when we were taking a train with people, traveling thousands of kilometers across Poland. [[Looking at the plates.]] Not much, Minister Kownacki says everything was in line with the HEAD manual. Okay, I just want to make this very clear. The HEAD manual clearly states that you can fly military machines, but only on official missions. So I'm asking. : Is the official mission a mission to the big room? Is the official mission a mission on the way home? Where's the official mission? I'd also like to say that there weren't 50 of these flights, there were over 70 of them. How many flights did President Duda make, we don't know. Maybe you can finally answer some questions. I will say one more thing today: as a shadow office of the Civic Platform, we will submit a draft amendment to the bill which, like Denmark, will allow all VIP flights to be public, so that in the name of public disclosure, the Polish citizen can know how the Polish taxpayer's money is spent. [[And it's best to send a copy to the Kremlin.]] This is the norm in the democratic world today - the transparency of public life... [[And safety.]] ...not everything classified by confidential, as it is with you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's it, because it's not a flight of power, it's a flight of power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u145	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Recently, we have been dealing with a series of accidents involving the most important people in the country. The most frequently mentioned causes of these events were disregard for procedures, simple bravados or lack of professionalism. In my deep conviction, these are also the reasons why we have been faced with staff carousels, which are important for the security of the most important people in the country of the institutions. I'm not just talking about the Office for Government Protection, where, let me remind you, we had two bosses in a year. There's a man on duty today. In the Ministry of National Defence itself, significant staff changes - one-third of the generals, one-six colonels lost their jobs. I have no doubt that these castles affect the level of functioning of these institutions. I hope you'll want to assess that impact, Minister. My question is: What do we learn from these crises, from these events? What will be the procedures for this in the future? What system will we deal with when these new machines that have been bought are finally available? Finally, it is a question that must be asked: What else must happen for us to draw conclusions so that we can solve this problem systematically and once and for all? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u147	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll refer to the predecessor's statement. You were on the train, but there was an embraer behind the train. [[Applause]] [[No, you're not. Don't tell me you're not.]] Just so you remember that. The PO starts talking about private flights casa, but forgets... Let me remind you that in 2012 President Bronisław Komorowski traveled on a cruise plane to America. Then after the trip he said that political forces in Poland should agree on buying an airplane for the government before the elections. It's not a fanaber, it's a necessity, ladies and gentlemen. Really, the discussion is very low. And now I have a question for the opposition: Has the PO changed its mind about what the former President said today and believes that the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Poland should travel against security rules, I stress, contrary to security rules? And here is the question to the Minister: Should the journey of the head of state between continents take place on cruise planes and are such standards worldwide? Today's discussion, my dear High Izbo, brings down flights and levels. Let's talk about arguments. I see here that it is reasonable, Minister, to prepare specific statistics, what the cost of flights during the Civil Platform regime looked like, and how the government is doing today. Ladies and gentlemen, here I have also heard comments about the accident of the Prime Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's pathetic that you made fun of each other. You broke every standard of decency at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u149	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u150	If there are rules... And here, too, I have a request to the Minister to show the people who...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u151	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u152	...move in traffic, what are the rules, how you have to behave, how the column drives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u153	Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u154	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! In connection with our discussion on military aircraft flights, confirmed at the press conference by Prime Minister Szydło, a few questions to the ministers. First of all, it's about numbers. How often does the Prime Minister use the military aircraft on the route Warsaw - Kraków, Kraków - Warsaw, as well as Warsaw - Katowice, Katowice - Warsaw? How many such flights have taken place since the beginning of Prime Minister Szydło's term of office? Second question: Why - we would also like to find out - doesn't the Prime Minister use a chartered government aircraft and is it true that your flight to the Prime Minister's military plane also had, sometimes, a training character, so they weren't registered? Perhaps this is how you wanted to hide the costs if, of course, this is true. But I would ask for such an answer if such training flights were taking place. I also ask for information - I do not know if you can give such an answer today, if not today, because this is a fairly detailed answer, I will ask in writing - what is the cost of the flight Warsaw - Kraków by a government chartered plane, and what is the cost of a military aircraft, given of course also the involvement of other emergency aircraft. I'm also asking you to tell me how many officers of the Government Security Office need to be involved on Friday afternoon in order to ensure transport, safe transport of the Prime Minister to the airport. How many BOR officers must accompany you during your flight, as well as how many are waiting for you at the airport in Krakow or Katowice, i.e. how many of these security guards of the Government Protection Office must be involved together. And finally, information on the President's ski flights, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or a helicopter or an airplane. I realize it's not right for the president, the head of state, to drive a government limousine with skis on the roof, but how many ski flights were there? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u155	Thank you, sir. Ms Czochar, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mariusz Witczak has just informed us of the alleged, I stress, alleged appalling situations on casa flights. As we have just heard, the instructions for the organisation of flights with HEAD status have been in force since 2013 and clearly state everything. [[Thank God.]] Minister! My question is: Is it true that, under the PO-PSL rule, casa planes used, among others. Ms. Ewa Kopacz, former President Bronisław Komorowski, Donald Tusk, sitting here in the room of Tomasz Semoniak? Minister, in that case, I'd like to ask you to fill in the cost information... [[That's a great idea.]] ...how they were borne for all the flights I mentioned earlier. And just a little bit of reflection. Yesterday, the President, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, customsly stated that the opposition is under the influence of false consciousness. Then is your narrative today, Minister, proof that it is? Just to remind you, false consciousness, perception and understanding of the world, which is based on distorting and falsifying reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u157	Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The use by Mrs Beata Szydło of military aircraft for private purposes raises reasonable doubts and a number of questions. In my opinion, the first fundamental question is: Are these flights legal? In particular, I'd like to ask you about the HEAD manual. Is the use of casa planes by the Prime Minister based on this instruction? Is it not so that the most important people in the country - the Prime Minister, the President, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate - can use these machines on the basis of this instruction, but only in the event of the performance of their duties in the performance of official missions? In my opinion, coming home, a private matter in no way has the marks of an official mission. The argument that this is a business trip, in my opinion, is unprotectable. Second question. Why did the Prime Minister decide on the most expensive means of transport? Mr Kownacki confirmed this today in his speech. After all, the government charters civilian planes. Of course, such flights are also expensive, but they are much cheaper than casa flights, because although this is a private flight, you are using military aircraft. I hope that's when... Actually, I don't know, you're gonna answer that question, ladies and gentlemen, if you're following the HEAD manual. It imposes an obligation to involve additional machines, so not one, but three planes are used, and BOR cars still have to get from Warsaw to Krakow and take the Prime Minister home. And one more question. The Prime Minister said she couldn't move the train, but I'm still talking about private travel, ladies and gentlemen. Please do not suspect us that we want the Prime Minister to drive a bus or taxi in the event of business visits, in the event of official visits. [[The Prime Minister is no longer a private person.]] My friend talked about it. Prime Minister Kopacz used trains. I'd like to ask you: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have the standards been tightened since 2015?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u159	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u160	If not, please comment on these words. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u161	Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! I would like to say to my colleague that the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers, is not a private person, he is simply a protected person. The HEAD Manual is a document that sets out the rules for the organisation and security of flights with the most important persons in the country. Of course, this applies to flights operated by Air Force, the Armed Forces. I have a question: Did your flight by plane of casa take place in accordance with the instructions of HEAD? And a few more questions. Is it true that Mr Donald Tusk treated government aircraft as taxis circulating between Gdansk and Warsaw and Gdansk? Is it true that between November 2007 and March 2011, government aircraft flew on the route of Gdańsk - Warsaw and Warsaw - Gdańsk at least 370 times? Is it true that most of Mr Donald Tusk's flights took place on weekends and only in 2010 did the Prime Minister fly between the Tricity and Warsaw during 42 weekends? Is it true that these flights by Prime Minister Tusk home cost our taxpayers a lot of millions of dollars? I would like to point out that during this time there were 6 and 7 LOT machines flying to Gdansk every day, and the price of a business class ticket is approx. 400 PLN. Finally, I have a rhetorical question: Are the leaders of other countries - Germany, Russia, England, Spain, Italy, etc. - explaining what they're traveling? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's rare in China.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u163	Thank you very much. You have now asked for the floor of Minister Beata Kemp.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I'm just gonna be brief, to warn you to think about it before they ask you another question. [[But it's not in this mode.]] Well, Mr Wolf... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm a constitutional minister, and I can speak on any matter. [[Voices from the hall: Not at this point.]] Mr Wilk, do you, as a Member of the Sejm, go to the Sejm or come back from the Sejm, go to the Sejm, go home with the Sejm, go home privately, go back to the private house and use the money of the Sejm, go home privately? This is a private journey, according to your theory. When you use such a plea against the Prime Minister, I ask you to reflect. If you use this argument in relation to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, you also use it in relation to yourself because you also use public funds. Please keep your measure when you use such an argument. The rest will be after all the Members have spoken. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Ministers, My question concerns the safety of the most important people in the country, which has been experienced by a dramatic event on the history of our country, which should be a lesson for all those who have to do with ensuring security for Poles, especially the most important people in the country. [[Voice from the hall: A teaching for whom?]] In Poland, where citizens were involved in the Smolensk accident, today safety procedures, including flight procedures, are dramatically ignored. I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago, in this House, we spoke with Minister Kempa about an event that took place in London when two passengers were trying to pack up two flights on one aircraft. You haven't learned anything from this event. No security control system can be implemented. They tried to take off on an overcharged, underweight plane, and only because of the pilot's firm attitude didn't happen to this overcharged flight. The question is about flight casa. Isn't it that you prefer to fly military planes because military pilots are subject to military hierarchy and that you can give them instructions that are contrary to HEAD's instructions and security rules? [[It's just amazing.]] It is civilian pilots who prove to be the guarantee of the safety of the most important people in the country. Colleagues used the services of civilian pilots. After Smolensk, an attempt to reconstruct the rules that were in force in 36. The Special Transport Aviation Regiment, the mess that reigned there, today is burdened by [[♪ The bell ♪]] countries. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u167	Thank you. Ms Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u168	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The opposition accuses the ministers of Law and Justice, but what was the condition of the Office of Government Protection found by Law and Justice after taking responsibility for the Polish state, today we could hear here in the Sejm from the mouth of Minister Jarosław Zieliński. Ladies and gentlemen, 60 incidents involving the fleet of the Office of Government Protection. Look, a four-page document, which is a summary of these events under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. 400 vacancies, disregarding the instructions of car tire manufacturers and finally old cars. We bought 51 new cars last year for the fleet of the Government Security Bureau. [[And what's the effect?]] Special units are dedicated in each country to protect the most important persons. In Poland until December 2011, this was 36. Special Transport Air Force. This regiment was responsible for domestic and foreign flights of the most important people. Notabene experts considered the decision to liquidate the regiment to be rash. Minister, what impact has it had on the safety of the most important people in the country to liquidate the 36th Special Forces to serve the most important people in the country and order special flights to a civilian carrier? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u169	Thank you. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The need to buy new aircraft for the most important people in the country is said not from now on. Flights must be safe. Of course, we are talking about flights carried out as part of our duties. Minister Macierewicz's resort for about PLN 1 billion wants to buy two new planes and one used. The budget of the task is not entirely known. I wanted to ask you here in the context of recent events in Oświęcim about some information. How many times has Prime Minister Szydło used CASA and Embraer aircraft for flights between Warsaw and other cities, especially Krakow and Katowice? The second question is, what is the cost of taking off and landing these planes, the cost of operating for an hour and leaving the aircraft on standby? I would like to ask: How much money has been spent on flights between Warsaw and Cracow, Balice or Katowice with Prime Minister Szydło since Mr Macierewicz took over the Ministry's budget? I would like to ask: Isn't flying a military plane back home from work a violation of procedures? I'm asking for quite detailed information, so I'm asking for a written reply. And I would also like to ask: if you are talking about the measure and you are so righteous and just, how much it cost to protect the BOR at the wedding of Mrs Kempy's daughter. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We're gonna start clearing up the parties.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u171	Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The issue of securing the carriage of the most important people in the country is one of the most serious problems facing every government team. It's been said that for many years. It's written. The previous government team for eight years couldn't solve this problem in any serious way. Is it true that the government of Law and Justice, Mrs. Beata Szydło, was the first in many years to be able to take decisive steps? Minister, we know about the tender for the purchase of small long-range aircraft, U.S. aircraft, designed to transport the most important people in the country. This invitation to tender took place last year, in principle in the first year of government. These machines are to be obtained under a multi-annual programme. Minister, what is the implementation of this program today? What are the costs, and above all, when the first people can get into these machines and the Polish state will solve this embarrassing problem that the previous team has been unable to cope with for 8 years? What is the pilot training for these important flights supposed to look like? Is this already planned? There's still a slight digression in transparency, transparency. We were compared here to Denmark, where, let's say, there's a slightly different form of information. You may propose that we not only inform you about any flights that have taken place but maybe about those that will take place a month ahead. It's just for safety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u173	Thank you. Ms Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Military procedures prohibit the use of CASA as an air taxi. It is outrageous that the Prime Minister, answering the questions asked, sees no problem in using the case for private flights, not for business purposes, to Balic. Because I ask the following questions here: Is it not enough that the government has at the disposal of LOT's embraeras? Isn't it enough that there are helicopters at the government's disposal? Is it also insufficient that the government has BOR limousines at its disposal for about PLN 2 million? Casa is not on the list of means of air transport. I'd really like to get that answer. Is that all that is guaranteed for safe movement, among others. Prime Minister and Government, is it not enough, or is it still going to take more equipment, helicopters, planes, so that the Prime Minister and the Government can safely move around our country? Speaking of Mr Kownacki's speech, let me put it this way: Mr. Vice Minister, this is outrageous. It is outrageous that it is so easy for you to slander Members of the Civic Platform. I am the Member. in this House, with a great honour being given a mandate since 2011, thanks to my constituents, and I do not wish you to cast defilements that I have blood on my hands because of the Smolensk disaster. I'd like to quote a fax confirming that you're still breaking protocol, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's a fax that says, "Please follow the President's orders immediately and fly from Gandza Airport in Azerbaijan to Tbilisi Airport - the Chief of Military Staff of the Air Force." Yes, the procedures have been broken before, and that is also repeated now, Minister. [[Time.]] And really don't accuse me... [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u175	Thank you very much. I've been staring, and you've been talking for a long time. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, club... I'm sorry. Mrs. Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Previous governments were unable to make and implement decisions to purchase new aircraft for the carriage of the most important persons in the country. Especially the 8-year rule of the Civic Platform has led to a complete collapse so as not to say: poop stones in this area. After the Smolensk disaster, the 30th transport aviation regiment was destroyed and in its place for the next 5 years nothing else was created, no aircraft was purchased. Recently, as has already been said, a tender has been concluded for the delivery of three medium-sized aircraft for the carriage of State authorities. Therefore, I have questions: What will the air fleet look like in the end to transport the most important people in the country? How many planes and helicopters will it consist of? When will that be? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u177	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For starters, such a short, personal reflection. I was a member of the first term of office and entered the Sejm with certain hopes - hopes of repairing the Republic. And I'm sitting here in this room listening very carefully to this discussion, and I'm wondering where we are... [[In the O.R.]] ...as a nation, what is the state of our democracy, that in this way we discuss the safety of the most important people in the country. That's what got a little sad, and awful, Mr. Members. [[There are ladies here, too.]] Now, here's the question. A few days ago, the Ministry of National Defence issued an invitation to tender for the purchase of three aircraft. These are three medium-sized, medium-sized planes: two new and one old. [[Get helicopters for soldiers, not VIP planes.]] Mr President, I did not interrupt you, as you said. A little culture. It'd be worth it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u179	Mr. President, please don't...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u180	These are two new planes, one aircraft older. I would like to ask the Minister how these planes will be used, how they will improve the safety of the most important people in the country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u181	Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two Embraer aircraft belonging to LOT are at the disposal of the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, the President's Office of the Council of Ministers and the Sejm Office and the Senate Office. It is therefore concluded with LOT on the lease of these two aircraft and has been in force since 2014. These are non-military planes, serviced and operated by civilians, although this service and this service takes place under the watchful eye of our services. Please tell us what happens when LOT finds that these aircraft will pass over the affected areas. And then what? Is it true that LOT refuses such flights? How do such travels take place then? How are the representatives of our country transported? [[Flight to Georgia...]] And to conclude, Mr Marshal, Minister, we should thank our colleagues from the Platform and from the PSL for really this discussion, because this discussion allows us to look at this topic in a very substantive way on our part, in my opinion, and show how you have been neglecting this topic for many years, what have been omissions in this matter. That is why I am very happy about everything that has been done so far, and I hope that in the future we will not have to discuss it and be ashamed of what has not been done by the 8 years of Platform and PSL governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u183	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of people who've been voicemailed. Now, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marcin Kierwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Well, if anyone had any doubts about the level of shoes and the arrogance of this crew, then after Minister Kownacki's speech, he probably lost all doubt. Yesterday we heard from this speaker the theory of master philosophy expressed by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, and today we have the practical application of this master philosophy by Minister Bartosz Kownacki. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] Relax, really. We asked a lot of specific questions, we didn't get an answer to any of them. We've only learned two things from this information. [[They'll be here any minute.]] Mr. Chairman Skurkiewicz, take it easy. [[Wait a minute.]] Mr. Marshal, may I ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u185	Very much so, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u186	We have learned that the flights by Prime Minister Szydło to the house are official public visits, and that the flights by Prime Minister Szydło are actually responsible for Mr Mroczek's... [[There are no private flights.]] ...Mr. Donald Tusk or Prime Minister Semoniak. But no, Minister, you will not take responsibility for what is happening in Poland now, against the opposition. You're not gonna throw it at the opposition for a stubborn tire... [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] ...for the Carambola near Torun, for pushing cars by your boss Anthony Macierewicz. You're not gonna throw away the responsibility for that mess you put in BOR. It's your responsibility and it's time to just admit it. [[Applause]] You fly casami and say it's normal. It is normal to protect the most important people in the country, but it is not a normal waste of money. It's not a normal waste, although I think it should be said here that it's not a waste, it's a burning out of money. You burn the money faster than the fuel burns these planes because you're flying a casa, you're paying leases for the embraers, and you're pulling cars to the end. This is practice. You pay three times for one thing. And that's what we resent about you. And please understand that at last. We resent that you spend money unnecessarily. [[Voice from the hall: There was just something to drive...]] You see, we'll explain it to you, but don't worry. [[And bikes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u187	Please do not disturb the Member. Let him finish his...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u188	Minister Kownacki dares talk about Smolensk? Are you scumbags talking about Smolensk? You, who is the helper of the chief author of the lie of Smolenski Minister Macierewicz? [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] You want to talk? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Six years, six years of lying... [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] ... Anthony Macierevich. Your subcommittee can't account for what she's done for a year. Where are the extraordinary theories you've been reporting? Where's the evidence? You guys settle this, and then you're gonna make any accusations. [[Eight years of scandal.]] What you've done is simply outrageous. There's a scan-da-numer-ne. And I'll remind you, if you're having second thoughts, who deleted training on tupole simulators. Who? Whose crew? These are your predecessors. Do you remember that? Do you remember that? [[Easy, easy.]] Do you remember who was preparing President Kaczyński's visit... [[Memory blackout.]] ...in Smolensk? Do you remember the responsibility of President Lech Kaczyński's Office? That's what you forgot. You don't want to remember. [[Don't yell.]] But only because the Smolensk lie serves you only and only to build a great lie, a lie that you politically exploit. And that's a scandal. [[Now you're building a lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u189	But don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u190	And don't get upset, 'cause it's over... [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u191	Madam, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u192	...lies are very, very close. [[Sir, deep breaths.]] The end of the Smolensk lie is very close. You can't do it for a year... [[A little decency.]] ...even go to the media and tell what Mr Macierewicz's committee has done and what Mr Berczyński's committee has done. [[A little quieter.]] And inconvenient for you to meet the National Defence Committee, where we ask various questions, you must keep secret because you are so afraid of Poles. And that's the truth about your governments. [[The Poles thanked you.]] Don't be afraid. Don't be scared, we'll ask you anyway, and you'll answer those questions. And, Minister, and don't run off to attack the opposition... [[Don't yell at us.]] ...please answer the questions asked by Mr Witczak clearly and precisely. This is the essence of what you're doing. Where's the answer, how many times did you fly the casa? Where is the response to the change of procedure? That's what you're afraid to answer. A little courage, Minister. A little courage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u193	Thank you very much. Does Mr Witczak want to use the remaining 20 seconds? [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u194	Thank you, Marshal. I just wanted to say that in a normal country, Minister Kownacki, after your lies... [[Voice from the room: It's over.]] ...you should be taken care of by the D.A.'s office, and Prime Minister Szydło should have you kicked out of the government in a minute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u195	That was what the Member said. Now, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartosz Kownacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u196	Mr Witczak, you attack women, we protect them. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] And one more thing, Mr Kierwiński, for the case of the Smolensk disaster, on the bench of the defendants today is the Vice-President of the Office for Government Protection, which was under your direction, to be precise. [[Applause]] [[It's a lie.]] Maybe he's already convicted, I'm sorry. [[It's a lie. Do you know the contents of the prosecution?]] Now with regard to the speeches, I would like to start by saying that I was hoping that you would reflect. There's a reason I spoke very harshly, because a large part of society resents you, and you know that you are responsible for what happened on April 10th. [[You've been telling that lie for six years.]] But abstracting from that situation, Poland is our common homeland. Today the Prime Minister is Mrs Beata Szydło and the President is Andrzej Duda. Someday there will be someone else and we should all be aware that these people according to standards in the world are and must be protected. [[Beautiful words.]] Those are the requirements all over the world. [[That's the truth.]] And this is not the choice of Prime Minister Szydło, this is not the choice of President Duda. If you'd asked them in private, I guess any of them would have said they'd rather go skiing on their own so no one would have seen it. It's the only thing that's sadly true all over the world. The same was true with President Obama, who can only now play extreme sport because as president he could not and the bodyguard followed him step by step. When we discuss today what kind of plane it should or shouldn't be, I wonder how badly you want to destroy this country in an ad hoc political interest. Let's not do this. If we want to talk, it's about how to ensure the best safety. And for this I thank the Members of the Modern House, especially Mr Kobylinski, who said: let us talk about this. There is a HEAD manual and it in this case, in the case of flights by the Prime Minister, has always been carried out in accordance with all procedures. Let's talk and think about how we can make sure that dangerous events, incidents, accidents, and drama don't happen. But in order for it not to be so good with the Modern, Mr Owl, as you say, that the Prime Minister is ashamed to fly in white and red, I will say: the aviation chessboard, which is decorated with casa, is one of the most beautiful Polish colours, and the Prime Minister is not ashamed of it. [[Applause]] Many questions have been asked about airplanes for the most important people in the country. I gave examples of how it looks like in other countries, how it looked in Poland and how it looks in Poland today. You have to be clear and correct that first, the casa is three times cheaper than the Embraer plane, and I made a mistake by turning these proportions away. The flight is three times cheaper. [[We're just paying for the Embraer.]] [[Yeah, that's your idea. Your idea.]] Anyway, and the casa is being used, and the embraer, Mr. President. The HEAD manual requires a backup plane to be checked, and it's a good thing it requires it. This is the HEAD manual signed by Minister Semoniak, but it is good that she is, because we should all care about the safety of the most important people. This safety is not ensured in the case of Embraer planes, and you all know it. This annex called the civilian HEAD instruction to the agreement with LOT concerning the Embraera is much narrower than the one that regulates casa flights. And you know that casa, although it is less comfortable, because those of you who have flown know what these conditions are, is cheaper and safer. These flights were made safely, in the way they were supposed to. It was the Government of Law and Justice that decided to buy new planes for the most important people in the country. The first ones have already been bought and will be delivered in June. This is the standard in the world. We were able to make money, to adopt a government resolution, she is widely available, so I am surprised today by the Members of the Civic Platform who say that they do not know what it will be, do not know what it will look like and how much it will cost. This is all widely available, and I hope that this will be an agreement between us. Those planes are needed. You failed, for various reasons you did not buy, but now let them be and serve the Polish government for the next few decades. Let this fleet be replenished, because it's not just planes, it's the right infrastructure, and most importantly, the right people - pilots, technicians, all of them need to be developed, paid, and it's going to cost, because the safety of the most important people in the country is simply costing, [[Applause]] Just as much as the security provided by government security officers, not security officers, because don't insult these people. It has to cost, these people have to be, those are the standards. I'd ask us to remember that. It is not true, once again, that lies information about 70 flights from the Prime Minister to Krakow. No, I didn't. [[How many are there, Minister?]] During the year on business trips in Poland, not only to Krakow, Prime Minister 35 times used casa. And it's not true, please don't use it... And I have a question for Members: How many times have you been using the house, going back to what Minister Kempa said... Oh, you're from Warsaw, that's not, but, gentlemen, how many times have you used the MP flight? [[Voice from the room: Not once.]] [[Because you don't have a plane.]] How many times did you fly home on a plane or take a train? You can check it out. And what, you don't think you're entitled to that? Well, please, I expect you gentlemen to give it up today. Enough of this hypocrisy. How many of you settle kilometers when you go home? [[We don't fly a military plane.]] So let's stop this because it doesn't serve the security of the state, it doesn't do this crew any good or any more. Let us be aware that Poland is for all of us and that all of us, including here in this Chamber, are responsible for the Prime Minister and the President, regardless of the political option. [[It's true.]] I would ask you to remember that when you press charges in the media. As far as the other questions are concerned, in fact, the penny concerned aircraft, the penny concerned compliance with the law. I can only confirm once again that both the flight of April 10 and each subsequent flight is carried out in accordance with the instructions previously adopted. There's no such thing as accidentally getting the prime minister on that plane. These situations don't happen. And I would ask that we remember that Poland is our common good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u197	Thank you very much. The Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister, Ms Beata Kemp, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For starters, Mr. Marshal, on my own behalf, as head of the law firm, I have a sincere request because there is a very large discrepancy between the expression of the applicant's representative and what was kind to send the parliamentary club president - to send to the government in writing - to formulate a question to the government. You can check it out. Mr Witczak's statement today as the representative of the applicants and what was polite to send Mr Neumann to the government is indeed a very large discrepancy in content. It is therefore later difficult to prepare for the speech and to present the current information to the Members. It is therefore worth preparing you for the debate, Mr Witczak. You also need to know about the guns bill. Some of the questions you've made, and some of the actual attack, were on another department, as far as your doubts are concerned. But I'm prepared because... [[The Prime Minister had a question.]] Yes, but you know perfectly well that today the Prime Minister... [[All departments include the Prime Minister.]] Wait a minute. You know perfectly well that individual constitutional ministers are responsible be the persons appointed by them... [[That's the prime minister's problem.]] ...and if it appears from the letter that the question relates to the flight of CASA, it concerns the Minister of National Defence, and today you have also presented a few questions... These questions were raised by the Government Protection Office, which is under the authority of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. There were, as I know today, also questions in a set of questions on current issues to Minister Mariusz Błaszczak and it was possible to be present much earlier in the debate and to ask these questions. [[It's connected.]] So we need to keep order and discipline as far as these issues are concerned. It's just for the record. [[Don't lecture me.]] On the other hand, is it the fault of the Prime Minister or the President of our country that he does not live in Warsaw, only his family home is 300 km from Warsaw? 'Cause I think that's your basic charge: he wants to go home for the weekend. I believe that's your basic charge. [[Three planes.]] You want to lead to a barren discussion, especially in the media, a populist discussion and accuse the Prime Minister and the President that any means of transport would use... 'Cause I suspect today you're accusing him of going home with a casa, and if he flew an embraer or drove a government car or, as you most often say, a PR limousine, a government security office, you'd also charge. [[Voice from the hall: Just like you're buying us.]] No means of transport would please you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] None of these measures would ever be satisfied with you, ladies and gentlemen. I think that today we would be entitled to the following thesis: no one will respect us outside the country if we do not respect ourselves. [[Applause]] The Government of Law and Justice has started and has already completed one of the tendering procedures and we will not go back, even if you drag all the media chariots against us. We, in the spirit of responsibility, have the strength to complete the tendering procedures for the purchase of security equipment for the most important people in the country. Because we are aware that there will be successors after us, and we want to be responsible. We want them to fly everywhere, even to their home, because family and safety are the most important thing for us alongside the affairs of the state. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u199	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u200	We want them to be able to come home safely, as we make sure that you return home safely. And don't charge anyone with this. Also all instructions will be ordered. That's why...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u201	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u202	I'm almost done, Marshal. ...that these things were out of order, and you left us a few instructions, and today we're trying to sort them out, too. But if we finish purchasing these planes, they will be in one hand, the Ministry of National Defence, and then there will be one instruction and one squadron - a military squadron, because we trust and trust the Polish Army - and this will be used by the President of the Republic of Poland and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, whether you like it or not. Because they'll be safe. We do not want it to be another 10 April 2010.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. We've run out of time for this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u204	And then the Prime Minister's office was responsible for the flights and the organization of the flight... [[President's office.]] ...not the president's office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u205	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[Formal conclusion.]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda... [[Marshal, formal motion, please.]] You're welcome. Formal proposal, Mr Mariusz Witczak. But it's a formal conclusion, I understand?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u206	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the government came today completely unprepared to provide information which is the subject of current information, firstly, I would very much ask that all questions asked by the members of the Civic Platform Club be answered in writing. I would like to point out that the High House was misled by Minister Kempa because the question, as regards current information, was directed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u207	Mr President, is this a formal conclusion? What's it about?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u208	Just let me finish my sentence. We have sent a request for current information to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister covers all departments. The government should come prepared. [[Applause]] As far as security matters are concerned, I am surprised to see Minister Kempie, the head of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, that she cannot answer and that she was not interested at all after the accident...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u209	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u210	...Mr. Marshal, Minister, the Prime Minister was with the security of the BOR on board a medical helicopter and whether fuel was finally fueled, Minister, to a helicopter with the Prime Minister on board. You should know that. [[You should've bought planes.]] If that's what happened, it's the D.A.'s office, it's the D.A.'s office. [[Applause]] [[Eight years, eight years. You can't listen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u211	Mr President, this was not a formal proposal, you made a statement. We don't abuse this procedure. We proceed to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaiming of Independence of the Republic of Poland presented by the President of the Republic of Poland (prints no. 1093 and 1272). I will now ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! prepared by the President of the Republic of Poland, the draft Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland is to prepare our country for especially solemn celebrations of the anniversary of regaining independence by Poland in 1918. This draft law provides for a committee to be set up to coordinate and initiate activities related to these ceremonial celebrations. The Committee, in line with the President's proposal, would, of course, be composed of a representative of his firm, ministers who would somehow participate in organising these events, including the coordinator of the Council of Ministers appointed for this purpose, but also a wide range of people representing the various environments appointed by the President. During the discussion, it is important to stress the parliamentary debate, which is not always the case in committees and in the Seym, in a good sense, there have been some legislative and linguistic amendments which have been accepted in general agreement. The discussion also concerned the composition of the committee. There were proposals to expand this composition. Finally, one of these amendments, concerning representatives of cultural and scientific backgrounds, was widely accepted. Two others, which sought to expand the composition of Parliament's representation, and to extend it to those who held office in the past, were ultimately not adopted. During the committee's work there was a correction concerning the financing of the Committee's activities by the President of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Culture. The question of what will happen to the representatives of Parliament, the government, the political parties who are to be members of the committee after the next parliamentary elections is still raised in the course of the discussion. As I understand it, there will be an amendment that will regulate this issue. It is also about the deadline for the Committee to report, but also about the corresponding amendment, as far as I know, will also appear. Once again, I would like to stress that the discussion on the setting up of a committee and the celebrations took place in an atmosphere of high culture and in a parliamentary language. Finally, the report on these amendments, which I mentioned, was adopted unanimously by the members of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u213	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the draft Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. The Law and Justice Club welcomes this initiative by President Andrzej Duda, because such a unique event, or actually a whole series of major events, which resulted in Poland regaining independence after a hundred decades of partitions and captivity, deserves a solemn and well-organized celebration, which should refer to the whole course of the years of the struggle for freedom and then its defence, especially against the Bolshevik upheaval. It is necessary to remind the efforts of several generations of Poles, first of all trying to save the Republic through the Bar Confederation, the Constitution of 3 May, the war in its defence with the Moskals and the uprising of Kościuszkowskie, then multiple independence raids, the Legion of Dąbrowski, the Duchy of Warsaw, the Napoleonic Empire with the figure of Prince Józef Poniatowski, the November Uprising, the Kraków Uprising, the fight in the Spring of the Peoples, the January Uprising with the steadfast Romuald Traugutt and the often forgotten Baikal Uprising. The sacrifice of health and life of many hundreds of thousands of patriots obliges the next generations to remember and care for the Republic. In a special way we should celebrate the action of this generation, to which independence was given: from the secret circles of self-education, the Union of Action, the Strzelecki Union, the Polish Shooting Teams, the Sokolich Field Teams, the Bartosz Teams and the Polish Scouting Teams, through the fights of the Polish Legions of Chief Józef Piłsudski, the Puławy Legion, the Polish Corpses in the East, the Polish Army in France, and the shed blood of hundreds of thousands of Poles forced to serve in the army of conquerors, to the defense of Lviv and Małopolska East, to the uprising of Greater Poland, three Silesian uprises and effective defence only in the long-term, war-growing area and bloody war with Bolsheviks. It was they who, heirs of the Confederates and insurgents, conspirators and sibiraks, who led their actions to regain the freedom of our homeland. It is worth recalling during the next celebrations the figures of the leaders of the armed struggle as well as the civil, organizational and diplomatic effort: Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Ignacy Jan Paderewski, Wincenty Witos, Wojciech Korfante, Ignacy Daszyński, Kazimierz Sosnkowski, Józef Haller, Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, Maciej Rataj, Maurycy Zamoyski, Feliks Młynarski, Valery Sławek, heroic priests from Fr. Ignatius Skorupka at the head, but also all the participants in these activities, especially the soldiers who gave their lives for the independence of their homeland. To initiate and carry out several years of celebrations that will start this year and will last until 2021, the Committee of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland will be very helpful and necessary, whose appointment was proposed by the President. The Committee will adopt an annual plan of celebrations, promote the idea of commemorating regaining independence in Poland and abroad, initiate cooperation between all stakeholders involved in the celebrations, express an opinion on the patronage of the President of the Republic of Poland over individual celebrations, and coordinate and inspire a number of regional celebrations. The committee will consist of the highest state authorities, representatives of parties and political environments and many people particularly worthy of the Polish State, which will be appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland. The Law and Justice Club explicitly supports the bill submitted and at the same time submits two amendments clarifying the law and ensuring the smooth operation of the committee also after the forthcoming elections to the Polish Sejm. First amendment to Article 2 (2) Point 3 (4) consists of replacing the dot with a semicolon and adding the following point 5: upon completion of the tasks, the Committee shall adopt a report on the activities of the Committee. The amendment aims to clearly indicate in the provisions of the Act concerning the tasks of the Committee that one of them is the adoption of a report on the Committee's activities after completion of the tasks related to the celebrations. The second amendment consists in adding an article. 5a as follows: 1. Membership of the committee of persons referred to in Article Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2, expires on the date of the beginning of the term of office of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The provisions of the Article shall apply. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Article 2 and Article 2 Point 5 (1) shall apply mutatis mutandis. 2. The authorised entities shall, within 21 days of the beginning of the term of office of the Sejm, provide the President of the Republic of Poland with information about the representative appointed to act as a member of the committee or shall make a declaration of resignation. Failure to submit information or a statement shall be tantamount to giving up participation in the Committee's work. The point is that the committee can continue to function smoothly after the parliamentary elections. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm handing this over to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u215	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the club...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u216	On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I thank President Andrzej Duda very much for the bill submitted. I am convinced that the solemn and worthy celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence of the Republic of Poland will be an important undertaking in the construction of a strong and sustainable Polish national community and that they themselves will also contribute...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u217	Thank you, sir, you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u218	...to strengthen the independence of Poland, which will be the fulfillment of the will of the fathers of our independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! The year 2018 will indeed be a special date in our latest history of Poland. This century, this 100th anniversary of regaining independence by the Republic, I believe, will be an event around which we can, even looking back, build some outline of the future of our country. It is no wonder that such an occasion requires special organizational and legal preparation, because it is not just an anniversary, it is not an anniversary that repeats too often. I believe these celebrations require special rank, weight and power. Thus we understand, this is how the Civic Platform understands the initiative of the President to refer to the Sejm the draft law on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland. It is not just such an act that the President will, of course, be involved in this celebration, because it is natural and understood, but the President, as we understand it, wanted to give these events a special rank, to emphasize their importance. Both at first reading and indeed, as the rapporteur said, there was agreement at the committee meeting, apart from some rather detailed comments. I believe that the agreement will also prevail until the end of this House when adopting this bill. The two comments we discussed, which were discussed in the committee, were taken into account by the Law and Justice Club. Indeed, in the case of these amendments, this is in line with the commitment of Minister Sadurska, for which I thank her because she introduced a clarification of certain provisions, this has been fulfilled. Nevertheless, I would recommend that, if you allow the whole House, including the applicants, to consider the third issue that has appeared there, but has escaped somewhere, it was not the subject of a very lively discussion. In fact, the President proposes the Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland, but the merit of the Act, the contents of this Act and all solutions refer to the establishment of a committee of these national celebrations. The celebrations will continue, as was said here, until 2021, and we start them actually this year. However, such a first step, the first move - except that a government representative has been appointed to coordinate this work - would be the committee which the President initiated. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club proposes to amend the title of this law and possibly introduce it... and then there is a consequence of that. And that is why we propose: the law, in accordance with its content, which does not take the weight of this solution in any way, should be the Act on the Committee of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Independence Reclaim by the Republic, so the title should be. Consequently, this Article. 1 should be read by the Committee: The Committee of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Independence Reclaims... and consequently paragraph 1. Article 1 2 should be read as follows: The Act sets out the tasks, the rules of operation and the modalities for the appointment of the members of the Committee. These are amendments in some way in substance, but I think they are more clear than damaging to this initiative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. And, Marshal, please... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskoła will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u222	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in view of the very good initiative of the President of the Republic, for whom we particularly thank you, about the national celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by our beloved homeland. Of course, I will not stress the importance of this fact, the importance of the fact that for 123 years many generations, giving up their lives, fighting for this independence, and we are the direct heirs of this great uprising or many uprisings, which ultimately led to the fact that we as Poles can live in our own country and function, even slightly different, which is also a kind of idea of democracy. We also have some comments. I listened to the previous point and it totally does not fit me to this point, here is a kind of consensus and wonderfully, that it is so, while the previous point seemed to me an embarrassing discussion about whether it is worth it or not to ensure the security of the highest authorities of the Republic. I'm disgusted by this discussion. It is a good thing that now this point will be as if it were to show that Poles can get along and, above all, they can celebrate such an important ceremony together. I have a few questions, but at the same time, doubts. Of course I understand that from the point of view of art. 4 of this law we already have a list of parties which may participate, and their chairmen, in the work of the committee, invited by the President of the Republic. However, there is a point that the President is calling. I do not know if, since he is calling, he has the right to possibly refuse to appoint a specific person or not. That's the question I'm asking right here. For a while, we had doubts about the need for a bill here, but when we follow it, we see that it is indeed such a great work that it is, however, necessary. I would also like to point out, and this is a common position at the Kukiz club15, that we believe that we should exclude political people or parties that in the last century did not work in favour of the independence of the Polish state, i.e. all kinds of PZPR slayers, like the Democratic Left Alliance. With all due respect, the parties that have been hitting independence for 40 or 50 years... I find the celebration of independence by such people to be extremely inconsistent. We invite them, but we believe that in such a committee there should be people rather connected with direct combat, such as combatants, people of solidarity, not necessarily members of the PZPR. I would also appeal to the Minister of Sadurska, but also to all of you, to point out that very badly perceived, mediaally only, the fan environment should be strongly present here, the scout environment should also be very strongly present in this action. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this may finally be a reason to unify, ladies and gentlemen, a single organisation, an institution which will promote this great Polish tradition outside. This is the Federal Republic of Germany, it has Spain, it has France, Poland unfortunately does not. We'd ask for it. Finally, we should make such a gift to Poles: think about having a coherent visual identification, because we have a complete mess about the logo of ministries. The interpellation's gone. The rest will be presented by my colleague. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning of this law we write that independence we gained by the efforts of many generations of Poles. It was also established by the Polish society. Therefore, we ask the rapporteur, the authors of this law, to include not only Marshal Józef Piłsudski, a very important person who built our independence and perpetuated it, but also people - Vincent Witos, Chadeks - Mr Korfanty, endeks - Roman Dmowski. All of us, from this side to this side of the room, all Poles have established our independence, we have fought it together, differing, loathing, thinking freely, thinking more in a relationship, thinking about Silesia, about Kashubach, about Lviv, Vilnius - we all created Poland. So we ask you to include these creators of independence in this bill as well, [[♪ The bell ♪]] also Witos, also Korfantego, also Roman Dmowski. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u225	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Pudłowski will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u226	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I quote: And you, filthy, guilty of all opposition, made of Poles of a worse sort... [[Oh, my God!]] ... guarded by heavy limousines of the power of ordinary citizens of the Republic of Poland... Mr. President! You will not cover with a single fig leaf the nakedness of your own ideas and full submission of the party, which won only by a hair. The constitution of our country, which you rape on the altar of undiscovered political gratitude, clearly defines your duties. You swore that you would be faithful to her terms, that you would guard the dignity of the nation steadfastly, and that the welfare of your country and the well-being of your citizens would be your highest good. In your opening speech, you spoke about building unity, filling divisions, searching for a community. However, your testimony is very far from these declarations. In your opening speech, you didn't mention anything about acting only under the dictation of the PiS. As a lawyer, and yet without any reflection, you sign all the documents, often at night, ignoring their meaning, and we all have the sounds in our ears. Ladies and gentlemen! Except for what the President is doing today, the bill is being discussed, and it concerns the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the most important Polish holiday - regaining independence common to all Poles. Apart from the Baroque formula of the organisation of the celebration committee, we consider the initiative appropriate. Mr. President, one swallow doesn't make spring. Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen! Try to imagine yourself as normal people, as private soldiers, who, in the long years of fighting for independence, often fearing, in the dark, trembling from cold, trembling from undereating, are led by hope - hope that Poland will regain independence, and this independence will be our common independence, independence of all of us. Now, gentlemen, try to imagine that the faith that has been through all this, which has experienced this great suffering, is sitting here with us today. It is certainly important for him to celebrate this anniversary, but I am convinced that it would be even more important for him to fight for a united, strong, sensible Poland, respecting one another, seeking a compromise in an open public debate. Let's build unity, bury the digs. Finally, I have one more thought to the President - the words of the great Pole: "To be victorious and not to succumb to this victory." To win and rest on your laurels is a disaster. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u227	Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus will now speak on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an extremely important anniversary for all of us, and we all know it. It's obvious. Unfortunately, I am amazed at the fact that the bill assumes celebrating the anniversary of independence for five years. We understand that the government can't count because it shows us this on various laws and during the last year. I wonder if the President is not about the historical calendar, but about the electoral calendar, because by 2021 we will have local elections, to Europarliament, parliamentary and presidential, and such a law would give the rulers another opportunity to campaign with the funds of citizens, that is, all of us. So I have one very important question: Will there be local elections on 11 November 2018? Are you able to answer that question? And one very sad conclusion. It is basically a ghastly irony of fate that celebrations of the 100th anniversary of independence come to such a bad time for Poland - at the time of weakening our defence capacity by the Minister of National Defence, Mr Macierewicz, who focuses more on his young advisors, destroying the Polish army and compromising Poland in NATO than on combat helicopters and looking for allies. This is de facto not a pro-Polish policy, but a more pro-Russian policy. You want to celebrate the anniversary of independence, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But unfortunately...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u229	Thank you, Commissioner, you have run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u230	...that independence one step at a time, you're taking us away. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u231	Mr Paweł Bejda will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2018 there is a hundredth anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. On 11 November, it was established by the Law of 23 April 1937 on Independence. In order to guarantee the celebration of the highest rank, the bill assumes the creation of the National Committee of the Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland, composed of the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland, representatives of political parties and groups and social organizations. The solutions provided for in the proposed law cover both the celebration of the anniversary of the events of 1918 and the subsequent years. The bill sets out the rules for preparing the national celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence of the Republic of Poland. The implementation of tasks aimed at commemorating and solemn commemoration of events and persons connected with regaining and perpetuating independence by the Polish Republic was entrusted to the Committee of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Reclaiming Independence of the Republic of Poland. Among the highest state bodies, the members of the committee will be, in addition to the President of the Republic of Poland, also Marshal of the Polish Sejm, Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Minister of National Defence, Minister of Public Administration, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Education and Education, Minister of Higher Education, Representative of the Government for the celebrations of the century of regaining independence of the Republic of Poland, President of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the National Polish Republic and Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. The Committee's work will take place at meetings convened by the President of the Republic of Poland. These meetings will be convened by the President on his own initiative. The Secretary of the Committee or at least half of the members of the Committee may also make a request to convene a meeting. The Commission accepted the amendments, inter alia. the extension of the catalogue of persons included in the Committee of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland to representatives of culture and science and to state that the committee is composed of a designated representative of the parliamentary club. From this point on, I would like to thank Mr Sylvester Khrushch very warmly for those words he said about extending the catalogue of Poles who fought for independence, among others. Vincent Witos, three times Prime Minister. I am glad that Kukiz15 talks about this without getting into Wincent Witos' shoes, as does the Party of Law and Justice, which comes in all the time, or tries to enter into Wincent Witos' shoes, taking over 120 years of tradition of folk movement. I am sorry that the President, who came from the Law and Justice environment, simply did not remember to extend the range of people who fought for independence of the Republic of Poland. The Polish People's Party Club is in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u233	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Circle of the European Union of Democrats, Mr Stefan Niesiołowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Mr Pudłowski very much for at least the first part of the speech, which was very good and sensible. Unfortunately, the second part was worse and inconsistent with the first part. Since Mr Andrzej Duda, the President, is indeed breaking democracy, and all these quotes, all these scandalous speeches, and many others, fell out of Mr Andrzej Duda's mouth, I see no reason why this project, which serves for such propaganda... has only purely propaganda, PiS-like character, to support. But for what you said at the beginning, Mr President, on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats, thank you. We're not gonna support this project. I do not know why the PiS-owska appetizer here speaks and thanks for some consensus. No, there will be no consensus, gentlemen, we will not support this for the most obvious reasons. Poland was reborn in 1918 as a democratic state. The will of independent Poland, the Second Republic of Poland, was the will of a democratic state. Of course, it is possible to mistake a name, but in principle all these names: Daszyński, Korfanty, Witos, Dmowski and many others, Moraczewski, Rataj, Paderewski, were people who built Poland democratic, Polish parliamentarianism and this Polish parliamentarianism was strengthened and was destroyed in 1926, as a result of a bloody assassination by Józef Piłsudski and was actually reborn only in 1989. Piłsudski undoubtedly has merit, he was a defender of Poland, but he was a undertaker of parliamentarianism, democracy in Poland. After 1926 Poland was not democratic. Of course, I will not have this historic discussion and a dispute over who was the democratic father... Piłsudski was a defender of this democracy rather than her father, and the dispute is, I think, pointless. The important thing is that this bill is a rather pathetic and desperate attempt by Mr Andrzej Duda to pretend that he is a democratic president. President Duda is responsible for introducing an undemocratic system in Poland. He crossed the will of the Second Republic. [[That's embarrassing.]] There is no moral right to act as someone who organizes this kind of celebration. We will also see if they will run in a spirit of consensus and unity, Mr President, and we will see that again. Anyway, the man who calls... [[It's up to you, too.]] Quiet, please. ...a man who calls the opposition's statements yazgotem, a man who benefits from the support of political lumps and kibolas, a man who benefits from the support that he signed by the Constitutional Tribunal, eliminating free media, eliminating civil service, introducing dismissal from work for political reasons, such a man, first, should not be President of democratic Poland, second, he has no moral, actual, political right to act in the capacity he is trying to give himself. The will of the fathers of independence of Poland carried out in 1989 and challenged, overthrown and crossed out since 2016 by the government of Mrs Szydło, and de facto Kaczyński, is a will that will be restored. Poland will be democratic. The piss will go away. It is a misfortune that Poland has suffered, I do not know for what sins, but apparently we have some, will pass away, will pass away like a bad dream. On the other hand, for the obvious reasons I have put forward here, near the European Union of Democrats will be opposed to this idea and will vote and submit a motion, another, because we have already submitted such a proposal, to reject this law by Mr Andrzej Duda. I know that in Poland new gentlemen appeared, and these new masters seem to be beyond criticism, that they are perfect, that they are omnipotent, that they will always rule. There have already been many such masters in Poland and many times Poland has been in a situation where a large part of the society was waiting when it will end. We'll see the end of this. We will see the end of PiS's autocracy and see no reason to support this autocracy, and that is actually what this bill, this inept way of building the authority of Mr. Duda, which does not deserve this authority. I repeat once again: we will oppose, we will vote against - for obvious reasons and many others that I will no longer mention, because time is running out - this idea of Mr Duda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's embarrassing, again with the embarrassment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u235	We now have 10 ladies and gentlemen of Members who have been asked questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club, is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u236	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! I welcome the President's initiative with great satisfaction, and I do so on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on dignified, Community and inclusive preparation and implementation of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, but I would like to ask two questions. The first is related to a certain natural order of things, namely the mechanism to reflect the President's intentions in local environments. I assume that there will be regional initiatives of this kind. The question, then, would it be beneficial to have such a respectable body with you in front of the President on a doughnut basis -- a nomen omen -- reflected structures at a lower level? The second question relates to the point of the case, because the independent project extends for several years, intersects, however, the term of office. Is there any chance that after the end of the term of office [[♪ The bell ♪]] Could this gym still be working? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u237	Thank you. The next question is asked by Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland concerning the most important anniversary of the last and coming years for our homeland, because next year we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. It's gonna be an anniversary that should definitely connect us all. And I'm sure with that thought and hope, Mr. President is taking the initiative to pass an appropriate bill. As we read in the explanatory memorandum: In order to guarantee the celebration of the highest rank, the bill provides for the establishment of a national committee for the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. The committee will be composed of the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland, representatives of representative political parties and groups and social organisations. Is this the kind of committee with a fairly pluralistic composition that gives hope of bringing everyone together in a proper way, that's a worthy celebration of this anniversary? Finally, it seems that the modern Members have confused the debate somewhat and Mr Niesiołowski's speeches cannot be commented on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u239	The next question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! It is important to ensure the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by the Republic of Poland of the highest rank. It is well known that celebrations such as their preparation require financial expenditure. Please tell us how this problem will be solved: Do you, for example. will a multi-annual programme be set up, financed by successive national budgets? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u241	Thank you. Now you are asking Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have such a question and concerns. I'm afraid there's a grammatical error in the title. The name of the country of the Republic of Poland is a changed noun, in this case clearly stated in the passive. Simple prepositions combine with the nouns given in the passive. In this case, there should be a preposition by. So... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: There it is.]] ...the name should, in my opinion, look so that instead of the Committee of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland it should be: by the Republic of Poland. That's the first thing. Second thing. Take this under advisement and think about it. I have a serious objection to one more thing. The draft shall be defined in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 the composition of the celebration committee, this composition completely ignores the environment, ladies and gentlemen, historians. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Historians especially those who deal with the period of partitions and regaining independence in 1918. All I have to ask is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u243	Thank you very much. Now the question you are asking is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u244	Last question, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u245	... New Year's Eve Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u246	...to turn to you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u247	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u248	...to the Polish Historical Society to indicate their representatives on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! As I said in my speech, the bill should include the name and Roman Dmowski, and Korfante, and Paderewski, and Witos, and of course Józef Piłsudski. They were the founding fathers of our independence, they were the co-founders of our independence, they perpetuated our independence. As I said, from the left side of the room, to the right side, we, Poles, were united, we were fighting, we were arguing, but because of this 20th anniversary of the interwar, Versailles, concepts during World War I - it built the identity of this best Polish generation, which so beautifully, proved great during World War II. As well as the soldiers who were cursed, also those who later built, built, rebuilt Poland by the Western Institute. That's why we as a Kukiz club15 are making an amendment to add the names of these people to the bill, and I have a question, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether the applicant agrees with this initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u250	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As for the fact that one should celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, no one has any doubts. The only problem is not to take advantage of this opportunity to get the propaganda of PiS-owska to take over all the celebrations again and show that they are the only ones who should celebrate this holiday with dignity. I have this question: wasn't the reason for this committee to be set up also to give the President a job to do in addition to skiing in winter, water sports and signing all the PiS laws without reflection? Because constitutionally he should be responsible with the government for foreign policy, and the situation is that we do not have an ambassador in France for many months. As far as defense policy is concerned, the President can't even talk to the generals in person. If this is what the President's activity is going to be like, then please, let's actually set up this committee, and the President will have something to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u252	The question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, it is a pity that, contrary to what was happening in the committee, some Members here have not avoided political blasphemy. But such an important thing and the question to the Minister: In addition to this project to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, were there any other projects that would talk about it as a whole? Do the President's Office, but maybe the government also know about some other projects, how could it be solemnly combined with the overwhelming majority of Poles to celebrate? It is hard to imagine the appointment of a body, an institution to coordinate it on a national scale and not including the most important people in the country. I understand that some of you do not have to agree with the policies of these people, but they have been elected in democratic elections and it is difficult for them not to participate in ceremonial celebrations. I was hoping, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure we'll agree on that, too, in this courtroom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u254	Thank you. The question is asked by Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This list of names of creators of Polish independence includes a representative of the Polish democratic independent left, which was Ignacy Daszyński. It must be remembered that the Polish democratic left also brought its action, its thought and its work to build independent Poland. Ignacy Daszyński, on October 3, 1918, in his last speech in the Austrian Seym, said: All Poles agree that they want national law for all three partitions created after the partition of Poland - all three partitions are to be joined together and declared as an independent state, and this union and this independence must take place on the way of international law, at the international peace congress. During the night of 6 to 7 November 1918 the Provisional Government was established in Lublin [[♪ The bell ♪]] People's Republic of Poland with Ignacy Daszyński as Prime Minister, who on 14 November...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u256	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u257	...subscribed in the name of unity to Józef Piłsudski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u258	The question is now asked by Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is in the context of the practice of appointing, in fact, the President's refusal to appoint various representatives, such as those elected by the National Council for the Judicial Tribunal of Judges. This concerns Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No There is a provision that the committee shall consist of persons designated by the President from among the representatives of the churches, religious unions, culture, science and trade unions. How will this be done in practice? Because if there's an environment of culture, it's the cultural environment that should indicate a representative and the president should set it up. On the other hand, this record indicates that the president will choose plums that tastes right for him. What do you mean, Minister, it's gonna look like this? This is a very serious matter. 'Cause I wouldn't want it to be a fantasy if there were representatives, just like a flower for a goat. The environment should have the right [[♪ The bell ♪]] select your own representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u260	The question is asked by Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u261	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! As the Endecja association operating within the Kukiz club15, we have tabled an amendment to include names such as Roman Dmowski in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. We believe that these names must be taken into account, and I would like to ask if there is a chance that the President will lean on it. On the other hand, with regard to the Members of the opposition who traditionally pour out a sewer of nonsense, for their apologies, in the High House, speaking about the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, I have this appeal to the High House, so that we simply do not comment on this anymore, because these are such disgusting words that are mixed with the independence of the Republic of Poland, that it is not really worth that we should fund Poles in public space such an embarrassing spectacle in the context of independence of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u262	The question is asked by Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! This is a very good and much needed initiative of President Andrzej Duda, so very different from the previous president, who offered marches with an eagle of chocolate on a purple background, were such marches in 2013. President Andrzej Duda's initiative to include all the political and social environments in the organisation of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence deserves praise and I must tell you that it is highly accepted by society. Polish society is waiting for consent, unity and community at such celebrations. On November 11 and May 3 we should celebrate these important events for Poland. On the other hand, my question is: What extent will social organisations, pro-defense organisations, propatriotic organisations have to participate in the committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which for many years make sure that these great Polish national holidays...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u264	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u265	...in the right way to commemorate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u266	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Sadurska, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for all these substantive statements concerning the presidential draft law on the National Celebrations of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your comments, thank you for all those votes. I also have the impression that some people now, speaking on the stand, are doing some politics instead of talking about what we should all have in common when we have the celebration of the 100th anniversary in front of our eyes. The work in committees, as the rapporteur put it, was very substantive. I also thank you from this point on for all the votes made to ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mrs Sledzińska-Catarasinska, for pointing out the amendment that should be tabled. In accordance with the declaration - I said that this is my honorary commitment - during the committee's deliberations such an amendment in cooperation with the Legislative Office of the Sejm we have prepared. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the answers to your questions. Mrs Sledzińska-Catarasinska raised what we talked about during the committee's deliberations, a change of title. This legislative amendment was rejected by the High Committee. On the other hand, we all the time stress that, due to our rank, we cannot flatten this initiative only to technicians, but only to the committee. We are talking about the great national celebrations of the century of independence. This law - the continuation of the answer to this question relates to the answer to the question of one of the Members - of course it has a certain period, i.e. the temporary law in force in the years 2017 Of course, if the legislators prefer the Sejm, it will be the Parliament's will that this law be continued so that the committee can continue to work, then an initiative will be needed. Mr Jaskoła from the Kukiz Poselski Club15 talked about disabling certain groups. Let me put it this way: the President's initiative and the President's will is to make this committee very broad, so that it is made up of both government representatives and parliamentary groups that did not get into Parliament. As I have just said, as Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska pointed out at the committee meeting, this law will apply after the next parliamentary elections. Then I just... It's about making this representation as wide as possible. The honourable Member notes that this committee should include veteran environments, scouting environments, other environments that, on their banners, can be said to have the preservation, commemoration of a free, independent homeland. And that's what's in the mouth. 3 to Article 4, this broad representation, a broad representation of non-political people, people representing social environments, representatives of churches, trade unions, cultural and scientific environments - this is also the answer for the Member who asked about historians - science, trade unions, combatants' organisations and other social organizations, the committee added cultural institutions, or people deserved for the Polish State. This is a broad directory and, as you have noticed, an unlimited directory. Of course, the President will point to these people, I understand from the institutions - how Parliament will adopt this law, and the President will sign this law, then we will talk about how this committee will be formed - and from among those who will express their will and willingness to work on this committee. Another point that you have raised several times in this House is the addition of individual fathers to regain our freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, in the explanatory memorandum, in order not to distinguish, so as not to ignore any name, we wrote about the symbol, we wrote about this person, who clearly all, from the youngest to the oldest, is associated with Poland's regaining independence, which became a historical symbol. We wrote, we mentioned only one name - Józef Piłsudski. But that doesn't mean we'll forget about other people. We're not gonna add more names to the justification, because there's not even a possibility, the bill doesn't contain any names. But I am convinced that during the work of the committee, during these various celebrations the actions of various people, who in the 20s, from 1917 to 1921 and later contributed to Poland's regaining and perpetuating independence, will be commemorated. Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus asked for dates. She asked why it was years like this, but it was wrongly colliding with the electoral calendar. We have no control over the electoral calendar. The electoral calendar is the same as the elections, as it is the constitution, saying that the term of office lasts so many years in parliament or individual local governments or in the case of the President. On the other hand, these dates also took place for several reasons. First of all, because I didn't tell you about it, this bill is compatible with the government program. The government program is also designed in this way, for such years. But this did not come from the case, because, Mrs, since 1917 and even before, since 1916. - and really all the time, because this is also indicated by uprisings, but now we are talking mainly about the year 1917 - a great march for independence began. And here we can talk about the uprising of the National Committee in Paris with Dmowski at the head, we can talk about the creation of the Regency Council, we need to talk about 1918, then we go through the Silesian Uprisings, the Wielkopolska Uprising, we also talk about the Polish-Bolshevik War. These are all the historical events in our history that shaped it, so that today we can say that we live in free Poland, that Poland regained freedom and then fought for it. Your next questions are questions about other regional initiatives, about cooperation with local communities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is it. There will be a big celebration committee, a committee, you can say, a central, bringing together different people, different institutions. There's a government program celebrating the 100th anniversary of independence. But the celebration of independence is also a holiday for every Pole. Every person who wants to get involved in their local environment, in local governments, in their groups, in the celebration of this holiday is really very desirable, because the 100th anniversary of the free Polish state, which after 123 years regained independence, is a holiday for all of us. Sadly, I accepted some of the comments. Despite everything that is going on in politics, despite all these different turbulences in the case of such initiatives, we should show that we are all together, that we can all be happy that Poland regained its independence 100 years ago. And even such an initiative is used for politics. Let me put it briefly: to the policy in this very bad issue, I think, the policy in such a bad way. And, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like once again to thank all those who support this bill. Thank you for all your votes. I am convinced that when the celebration committee is established, when it is established, when it begins to work, we will be able to show that the achievements of our fathers, the achievements of all those who created a free, independent homeland who fought for it, were not wasted. And we will pay tribute to them on this committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u268	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of the Republic supports the presidential bill on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland and states that it is a project that is compatible with the project that we are just finishing with the process within the government, a multi-annual government programme, which I believe will already be sent to the High House in March and will also be prosecuted. In November, Prime Minister Beata Szydło decided to appoint a government representative to celebrate the 100th anniversary of independence in the rank of Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and we started working on a multi-annual government programme Indeed, as the Minister mentioned, this programme will be for the years 2017/12021, for a very simple reason. We believe that the recovery of independence by Poland 100 years ago was a process, the final one can be seen in 1921. This is especially about establishing the final eastern border of the Republic of Poland, but also the last Silesian uprising. All these things that took place between 1917 and 1921 should be taken into account in these celebrations. My place, for example. In Pomerania, the day of February 10th is emotionally the most experienced due to Poland's marriage to the sea and Poland's access to the sea in 1920. So such events should also be covered by this programme, the 100th anniversaries of these events. Here were questions, yes, addressed to the Minister, about this bill, but also general. There were questions about how these celebrations would take place or what dimension they would have. I think that the committee organized by your President will also think about this and make various proposals. But in the government program, that's what I'm going to say right now, there will be three dimensions to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of independence. There will be an international dimension, very important because we want the world to know as much as possible about the Polish experience from 100 years ago and about the Polish historical fate. We are going to animate various events in the world related to this anniversary. But we also want these celebrations, together with countries especially Central and Eastern Europe, which have either regained independence at that time, or for the first time in history have built up their statehood, because it is, I believe, compatible with the foreign policy of the government, which is trying to create political subjectivity from the region of Central and Eastern Europe in a world game or in a European game. I think that sharing the joy of a joint anniversary will also be important not only for us, but also for our neighbours. Of course, there will also be this national component, i.e. various events of national importance. Here, I believe, the President will play a key role, but within this government programme we will also want to launch a very strong regional or local component, which will be supported, which will even be supported financially. So supporting various initiatives related to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, bottom-up ideas that are born at local or regional level. Each voivode will be appointed a special agent for voivodship. the celebration of the century of independence, which will absorb and present local initiatives of all kinds, so that we can support these different ideas as well. There will also be a specific budget for the implementation of this multiannual government programme. This, of course, is currently being processed and maybe I shouldn't be talking about sums, but we are looking for about PLN 200 million for the entire 5 years. Of course, a number of these funds will be earmarked for 2018. For 2017, for the current year, we have secured 12 million PLN for various events that will already take place this year. Events, you can say, will be hard to open new institutions that will talk about different parts of our history, about various parts of our history, but probably the most important thing will be opening just as part of the celebrations of the century of independence of the Polish History Museum, a museum synthesizing 1000 years of Polish history experience. We are realising this now at a high pace and we want to see that at the end of 2018, just on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, it can even open this museum initially, have a building built and present a preliminary exhibition there. But that's not all. From the research that we carried out on the historical awareness of Poles - very interesting studies, I could talk about them for 2 hours - it follows that on the simple question, who was the most important Pole in the 1000-year history of Poland, Poles answer that in the first place the figure of John Paul II, in the second place the figure of Józef Piłsudski becomes the figure of Józef Piłsudski. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't have museums dedicated to either character or character. That is why we have accelerated this, these initiatives have also accelerated, so that in 2018 we will open the large Museum of John Paul II and Primate Wyszyński in Warsaw and the Museum of Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek, but we have also taken the initiative with President Białystok and with the regional authorities of Lublin, that during these years we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence also to establish the Museum of Memory of Sibir and the Museum of Eastern Land of the Old Republic. It seems to us that these fragments of Polish history, Polish fate should be told in more detail, and such museums will also arise. Finally, next to the Museum of Polish History at the Warsaw Citadel, I think that around 2020 - it will also be a good anniversary of the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle and victory over the Bolsheviks - will be opened modern, in the new buildings of the Polish Military Museum. So the 100th anniversary of regaining independence will be connected not only with the so-called. soft events, events, events, celebrations, but also opening of new institutions, which will work for years ahead to consolidate Polish historical consciousness, not only for us, but also for outsiders who will be interested in Polish history or visit us and want to learn something new about this country. I think that the main objective of both the presidential law and this law, which the government will soon send to the state, will be to try - and I stress - to try - to build a sense of community on the basis of a shared experience of the joy of success that our ancestors achieved in the form of just regaining independence 100 years ago and building then, in the years 1918 to 1939, a very interesting, modern state. To this shared experience and building on this historical sensitivity of the community, we should encourage everyone. It will probably be like this - we see this also after the quality of some speeches today in the Sejm - that not everyone will accept this offer and will be willing to approach it, to say it gently, skeptically or they will also want to seek conflict in this field, but on our part, on the part of today's governing camp, this offer is. Let's build, but let's try to build a community around this shared experience of history, because the diagnosis we have made on this government programme shows, and we all know that we have a very low level of mutual social trust in Poland - unfortunately this mutual distrust is also encouraged by the world of politics - but also low trust in the state and its institutions. I think that on the occasion of these celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, the success which our ancestors then, 100 years ago, achieved, connected with what state you built then and what generation in this country raised, which during World War II and the years of the Polish People's Republic gave testimony to the pursuit of freedom and independence, it is worth, recalling that story 100 years ago, also trying to restore today a sense of respect for the state and its institutions as values. Because, in fact, Polish patriots years ago, during the partitions, but also during the struggle to maintain Polish independence, what did they fight for? In fact, they fought for the state. This is worth recalling on this 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u270	Thank you. Now on behalf of the rapporteurs... Would you like to speak? Please, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a few sentences. The dilemma, whether the bill is to be about the committee or about the celebrations, was partially considered at the committee meeting. At that time, we thought that celebrations were more important, and the Committee was a tool that might somehow help achieve this goal. Do you want to put names in the bill? In fact, that thread didn't show up at the committee meeting. Only the name of Józef Piłsudski appeared in the justification. Rather, most of the debaters believed that the process and the moment of regaining independence by Poland should be highlighted, not just names, because there will always be a dispute over how many of these names should appear. But of course, the committee will take care of it. The same goes for enumerating environments, organisations, institutions. Rather, efforts were made to ensure that the catalogue was as broad as possible, so that the President could invite the widest possible number of people representing different social positions. As regards the years of the celebration, it was clearly pointed out that the process of regaining independence did not end on 11 November 1918. It lasted at least until the formation of borders or the adoption of the first full constitution of the pre-war Republic. It is difficult to comment on the motion to reject this law in its entirety. The Commission will, of course, also take care of this. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u272	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Recovering of Independence of the Republic of Poland presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, prints 1093 and 1272. The project assumes the creation of a Committee of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland composed of the highest authorities, representatives of political parties and groups, representatives of churches and other religious associations, trade unions, organizations of combatants and other social organizations or people particularly worthy of the Polish State. To this group, by means of an amendment, the Committee on Culture and Media has rightly added representatives of cultural and scientific circles, who will certainly support the work of the Committee with their authority and substance. The establishment of the committee aims to guarantee the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence of the highest possible rank in order to commemorate this extremely important anniversary of events from 1918, as well as events from subsequent years, during which independence was preserved throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Poland, such as the Polish-Bolshevik War, the Wielkopolska Uprising or the three Silesian Uprisings. The importance of organising the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by the Republic, in which representatives of all political groups, social organisations and state and local authorities would take part over political divisions, is borne out by the conclusions of the study of the National Centre for Culture conducted by TNS Polska, which was included in the presentation of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage presented by Minister Jarosław Sellin at the meeting of the Parliamentary Group for Dignity, Community and Inclusion in 2018 of the 100th anniversary of Polish Independence Recovery which took place on 1 December 2016. By the way, Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle have joined the envoy. by declaring personal participation in the preparation of the 100th anniversary. The most important conclusion in our assessment, mentioned in the program rather not by accident as the first one, is: In Poland there is a lack of sense of a strong community. Poles still feel that they share more than they do. It is precisely the efforts to strengthen the sense of the civic community that should be a priority for the activities of public authorities, including our parliamentary work. That is why it is all the more acceptable to approve of the intention, which guides the project's applicant, the President of the Republic of Poland. It is the intention to encourage the construction of a national community, to break barriers, to break prejudices, to break things that divide us, through the organization of the feast of this joyful 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. An organization in the sense of community, such as when they rose to the heights of national unity the fathers of independence who gained it: Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Wincenty Witos, Ignacy Daszyński, Ignacy Jan Paderewski and other great figures who could shake hands so that Poland, after 123 years when it was not on the map of the world, could regain independence so that we could be proud of our homeland as future generations. Therefore, once again from this speaker I ask for reflection to all those who seem to want to celebrate together, but nevertheless they draw arguments which rather aggravate the political dispute, do not create a sense of national unity. It shouldn't be a party celebration, it shouldn't be an ideological celebration. The only idea that we should have in common during the celebration of this holiday is the independent Republic. And we should all put aside prejudice, anse, offensive issues that once touched someone. The President is really coming up with a great, good initiative and it needs to be respected. Absolutely everyone, 100% We should be involved in preparing and participating in these celebrations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle with satisfaction supported by the President of the Republic of Poland's draft Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u274	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks (prints No 1257 and No 1261). I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present a report by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks. The Commission examined the draft at its meeting on 9 February. One amendment has been accepted and the committee recommends that it accept it. The amendment concerns the change of nomenclature. The word "modernization" is replaced by the terms "construction" or "development" or "redevelopment." This amendment also applies to point 23 of the Amending Act. This point is after the change: the extension or reconstruction of the line 220 kV Blaits - Łagisza. In conclusion, the purpose of making changes to the nomenclature is to minimise the risk of not taking some investments into account by the transmission specialty regime and is based on a mixed interpretation of the above mentioned. concepts by building supervisors and administrative courts, which may result in a twofold legal qualification of the work planned by the transmission system operator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u276	So briefly. Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Iwona Arent will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks. The project, first of all, changes its name: "modernization" to "development" or "redevelopment." This is important due to the inconsistent interpretation of both concepts by construction supervisory authorities and administrative courts. Secondly, it points to new investments in transmission networks, i.e. the construction of the Kozienice - Love line, between the Warsaw agglomeration and the Siedlce, Skawina - the incision of the Tarnów - Tucznawa and Rzeszów - Tucznawa lines, as well as the extension or reconstruction of the Blazynia - Łagisza, Kozienice - Rożki, Rożki - Kielce lines. The works carried out are strategic from the point of view of energy supply to Warsaw. The region's energy security is currently based on one 40-year electricity line. In Europe, the standard is to power such an area with at least two independent 400 kV connections. Therefore, apart from the construction of the 400 kV line of the relations of Love - Siedlce - Uwirzanów and the power station Uwirzanów located in the municipality of Siedlce, it is necessary to build the 400 kV line of Kozienice - Siedlce - Uwirzanów. Larger lines are also needed to produce energy from Kozienice Power Plant, as soon a new block and power plant capacity will increase by 1/3 and also the international project is being implemented in parallel with the Polish-Lithuanian electricity connection, which covers 11 investments carried out in the north-eastern part of Poland. It concerns the construction or modernisation of stations and electricity lines. The task of the project is to connect the National Energy System with the transmission system of Lithuania and strengthen the Polish transmission network. The biggest dispute is the route of energy transmission from Kozienice Power Plant. The construction of a new line is necessary, regardless of the option chosen. There were two proposals, each protested by the residents. The first proposal, which is no longer valid, is the construction of a new line 400 kV Kozienice - Oltarzew by the municipalities: Białobrzegi, Grójec, Głowaczów, Jasiec, Promna and Stromiec. The second, current, is the construction of the Kozienice-Love line. I would like to mention that there is already one 400 kV line on this route. The discussion is based on the choice of option rather than the mere assertion that it should arise. Some people say that it is unnecessary because the current solutions are sufficient. However, such voices are unreasonable, because there is no doubt that the line is needed, because - as I mentioned earlier - it is about the energy security of Warsaw, about the new Kozienice Power Plant block, as well as about the electricity project of the connection between Poland and Lithuania. When it comes to whether the line will be built from Kozienice to Love or from Kozienice to Altar, no matter how to lead it, there will still be dissatisfaction and some proposal needs to be chosen. Plus, there's still time. The arguments of the opponents of both options are similar: health effects, too little distance from homes. We need to expropriate dozens of house owners. People are afraid they'll be deceived. And here the government, I address the Minister, needs to make sure that people get adequate compensation so they can move to other homes. They should be allocated enough money to make people feel secure. The argument of all sides is also to build lines elsewhere, because there are a lot of people living with us, on the basis of: build with your neighbor. Both strike, block roads, send letters, appeals to our offices as well. You have to understand the residents of the municipalities in which the investment is to be carried out, because nobody wants to have a network of the highest voltages nearby. But there's no gold in this situation. Energy must be transferred because it's about security. [[♪ The bell ♪]] energy of all inhabitants of the Warsaw agglomeration. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice believes that the project is necessary, urgent, and will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u278	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks, contained in prints 1257 and 1261. High Izbo! The main objective of Poland's energy policy is to ensure the energy security of the country and to ensure continuous coverage of energy demand, and therefore not only the generation, but the transmission and security of supplies enabling sustainable development of the country and economic growth should be a priority for each government. A particular task in this area is to expand the national transmission system in order to create tension around the largest centres of major cities, as well as to remove generation capacity from newly built investments, investment units. With regard to the proposed amendment of the Act of 24 July 2015, on which I had the honour to present and conduct the report, this amendment is currently extending the catalogue contained in the annex to this Act by five new investments, and this is justified and caused, as I have already mentioned, the need to extend full power from Kozienice Power Plant in order to power large urban agglomerations: Warsaw, Krakow and north-eastern Poland. These are investments already mentioned here, but I will repeat: modernization of the line 400 kV Kozienice - Love, construction of the line 400 kV between the Warsaw agglomeration and Siedlce, construction of the line 400 kV Skawina - Tarnów - Tucznawa and Rzeszów - Tucznawa, modernization of the line 220 kV Kozienice - Rożeki and modernization of the line 220 kV Rożeki - Kielce. The extension of this catalogue of public target investments with the highest strategic priority and the application of specific legal solutions to them justify speeding up the implementation procedures, with the preparation of entire investments. Therefore, it is unique to treat such investments, e.g. this sacred right of ownership, and interference in this right in this case has its reasons. We have a fresh memory, at least I, of the economic perturbations caused by the blackout in 2015 and not only when it actually happened to us at the big heat. And with all this in mind, and especially the country's energy security, the Civic Platform Club will support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 26 January 2017, a draft law amending the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the field of transmission networks entered the Polish Sejm. I present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 after the discussions of the Energy and Treasury Committee held on 9 February 2017 on this draft law. The list of strategic investments in transmission networks in the submitted parliamentary proposal will be extended by five points: the modernization of the line 400 kV Kozienice - Love, 220 kV Kozienice - Rożki, Rożki - Kielce and the construction of the line Skawina - Tarnów - Tucznawa and Rzeszów - Tucznawa, the construction of the line 400 kV together with the change of the low-voltage network system between the Warsaw agglomeration and the Siedlce. During the committee's deliberations, there was a focus, among others. on the definition of concepts: reconstruction, expansion and modernisation. This affects the qualifications of the work during the construction of the investment. Representatives of the Ministry of Energy focused on the issue of the timely execution of contracts and when the so-called. Specialist. It is worth recalling at this point the doubt of Robert Mordak, the architect, the urbanist who expressed doubts as regards the secrecy of electricity grids. Precise protection of information in this area is conducive to speculation in the real estate and land trade. In general, in the Polish spatial policy, there are doubts about the principles of carrying out such investments. The State's energy policy is enshrined in the document entitled: Poland's energy policy until 2030. It is indicated that the network loss rate in transmission and distribution for Polish electricity transmission networks needs to be reduced. This is to be done, among others. modernisation and construction of new networks and the development of distributed energy. Some communities indicate that the energy generation sector is stagnating. According to the Kukiz Club15, energy security is a state policy and strategy, a kind of priority. Electricity must be produced in a stable manner and must be distributed to the final consumer. Several issues are important, such as the production of energy in an environmentally friendly way or the ability to store energy. Construction of transmission networks is in the interest of Poland. The Act describes the procedures for preparing strategic investments in transmission networks, including: those relating to the acquisition of legal titles for real estate, administrative procedures for their implementation and financing of investments. No provisions of the law may be adopted without public consultation. At the stage of planning, as well as the execution of the investor, in particular if it is a company of the State Treasury, such as Polskie Nieci Elektroenergetyczne SA, together with the contractors must remember this. If PSE is granted the right to dispose of real estate for construction purposes, only on the basis of a decision to determine the location of the strategic investment in the transmission network. It is issued by a voivode, an off-road state administration body, upon request of the construction of an energy line. The responsibility lies with the government of the Republic, but also with the local government. The location of the transfer investment may be included in the study of the conditions and directions of spatial development of the municipality, in the local spatial planning plan of the municipality or in the decision on the conditions of construction and land development, building permit. The localisation decision gives legal title to the use of real estate for construction purposes. The Act aims to increase the level of security of power supply to urban agglomerations. Strategic investments in transmission networks are public objectives within the meaning of the Real Estate Management Act of 21 August 1997. The absence of these investments may result in restrictions on power removal from the power plant. Of course, the Kukiz15 club is very much in favour of modernising and developing energy networks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u282	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club Modern about the draft law amending the law on preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks. Ladies and gentlemen, the primary law is an attempt to reconcile the need to modernise and build new elements of energy networks and protect citizens' rights, including fundamental, constitutionally protected property rights. The proposed amendment is in fact an extension of the list of strategic transmission networks to the Kozienice-Losna project, the construction of the 400 kV line between the Warsaw agglomeration and the Siedlce, the construction of the 400 kV line Skawina - Tarnów, Rzeszów - Tucznawa line and the modernisation of the 220 kV line Kozienice - Rożeki and Rożeki - Kielce line. The main benefits of applying the provisions of the Act currently in force are the limitation of the number of permits necessary for the implementation of the investment - a comprehensive decision to determine the location of investments in the transmission network linking the aspects of the localisation, division and expropriation decision - a concentration of competence to issue a localisation decision and a building permit in the hands of one authority, in this case the voivodeships of the region in which the longest segment of the investment is located, shortening the duration of the procedures necessary to obtain the required decisions, the rigour of immediate feasibility for the decision issued at first instance. Unfortunately, such a procedure means, at the same time, a limitation of civil rights, which I mentioned at the outset. The wording of the Article may confirm the radical limitation of these rights. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5 Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks: Decisions referred to in paragraph 1 may not be repealed in proceedings before a higher authority and before an administrative court. 1 or find them void in its entirety if only part of the decision concerning strategic investment in the transmission network, real estate or land is affected by the defect, the land through which the investment is carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! The modern process is in favour of seeking a compromise between the need to build infrastructure, which is not questioned by me, and the interests of citizens, in particular the protection of this inalienable constitutionally guaranteed property right. The best method in my opinion here is public consultation, meetings with representatives of different environments, consultations with residents, which aim to find an optimal solution from the point of view of the location costs of these investments, but also to minimise environmental damage or damage caused to residents, land-owners in this area. Thank you very much. [[Are you for or against it?]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u284	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party on this project, I would like to say that we absolutely agree with those thesis that were presented in part of the speeches - or with some of those that were in previous speeches - saying that Warsaw is suffering from a shortage of energy, that the growing Kozienice Power Plant needs to be able to transfer this energy to final customers. On the other hand, I would like to show in this bill, in this project a number of imperfections, flaws or even bad things that need not be forgotten, which need to be clearly mentioned. Firstly, there are doubts as to why this is a parliamentary project. The practice in this term of office shows that if a parliamentary project appears, it is to avoid consultation in order to make rapid changes so that no one can notice them, often under the cover of the night, so that others cannot speak in a credible way, even if they support analyses and expertise. That is my impression, too, because very few Members knew about this project in the Parliament hall, not many Members even from the committee that dealt with it, knew that such a project would appear. There is also such an opinion about this project that it is nothing more than an extraordinary political outburst. Absolutely not denying those issues that I mentioned at the beginning, I would like to say clearly and clearly that there was indeed a huge dispute over the course of the line between Kozienice and Altarzew. The two options that were presented were massively protested, but also because they were protested that the consultation process, which should take place in this area, was inadequate to the gravity of the problem. Self-governments say that they were absolutely not informed about the course of this line, let alone that the inhabitants were not informed, they most often learned from the Internet, from journalists or from people who were closer to this phenomenon. Very often, the investor - energy networks - did not participate in the consultation, did not participate in the meetings, and so there were many problems. Another option was proposed, the PiS representative said that the Kozienice - Altarzew variant had already been postponed, i.e. it was thrown out that he was no longer considered. If that were true, this point would have disappeared from the annex to the bill and we wouldn't have seen that course of the line. So he is considered and will probably be implemented someday, and this must be made clear and clear to those who have protested so far. But probably less evil or less social resistance was chosen, namely the attempt to transfer this line from Kozienice, led by other municipalities, another corridor to deliver energy to Warsaw, the Kozienice - Miłosna corridor. I, directly interested in the course of this line, but also inhabitants of this area, locals from this area, no further We just found out a few days ago. So the basic question is: Why not just now? Why is this bill being filed in such an express mode? Why is there no consultation? I speak here with the voice of the mayors of this area, who have absolutely no knowledge of this so far. I speak with the voice especially of those inhabitants who, from day to day, have noticed, virtually, above their windows, above their homes, above their farms, huge pillars, at which will hang wires sending 400 kV of energy. This is not a category of things that are easy and worthy to be underestimated. None of us, with high-ranking targets in our heads, want anything like this to happen to us. And not many of the protesters say it's best to give it to a neighbor, give it to someone else. So I ask, why so expressively? Why in such express mode? And why doesn't anybody even discuss with residents, with local governments, to choose such an optimal variant of this line, in the first, second or now in this third compartment, in order to first of all not to violate the values of the most important for people - private property, the right to a decent life? Incidentally, as some experts listen to, I have the impression that the same ones who talked a few years ago about the harmfulness of wind farms for the inhabitants, it turns out that today they are talking about the harmlessness of the 400 kV line for the inhabitants. We come to some paranoia here, also in terms of the quality of these expertises. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! It cannot be resolved quickly and it cannot be concluded that those who are protesting today are not right that they are some kind of freak, they are not aware of the seriousness of the situation. It's because they realize this seriousness that they're protesting. In this regard, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, seeing a number of shortcomings in this project, but above all the fundamental shortcomings, lack of public consultation, failure to take into account the public opinion, cannot give this project the kind of support that was announced in the declarations of other clubs, because it is for many people the question of their continued functioning in the area concerned, conducting business activities, agricultural activities, but also the issue of [[♪ The bell ♪]] bankruptcy or potential bankruptcy of many companies. And even the most reliable compensation can't compensate those people for their losses. Thank you very much. [[What's that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u286	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item... Ah, let's get to the questions. The first question is asked by Anna Sobeck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u287	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project under consideration today aims to facilitate investment that is key to securing current and future energy needs, among others. Warsaw agglomeration. As always, however, there is a question of reflection on these tasks, which would have been if we had not built these lines. And why hasn't the Civic Platform built these lines for eight years so far? Why couldn't she build them for so long? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u288	Thank you. And I ask you to ask Małgorzata Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current law facilitates the implementation of strategic investments, shortens the procedures for obtaining decisions, gives immediate enforcement to decisions issued at first instance. However, in connection with strategic investments in transmission networks, local and often huge social conflicts are emerging, so I would like to draw attention to the energy resort and to Mr Suski, who wants to speed up the list of strategic investments in these amendments to the Act, to the lack of effective tools to inform citizens about such plans and their consequences. In general, the operation of high-voltage power lines by private landowners results in a decrease in the value of these properties and properties in the area and problems in land trading. Often, wages for establishing service are also unsatisfactory. What solutions will the energy resort propose to reduce the risk of social conflicts? How can landowners located near strategic investments be compensated? These are often symbolic amounts that [[♪ The bell ♪]] they don't satisfy the owners of these properties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u290	Thank you, Member. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u291	Thank you very much, Marshal. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister - I left this question to myself, in the course of the questions, to direct them directly to you - why this is not a government project, it is a parliamentary project, which was raised by a colleague from PSL, speaking on behalf of the club. However, I have a really complex question. I'm talking about the so-called law. energy corridors. Even as you were in the opposition, Minister, we have talked repeatedly about this project submitted by Law and Justice and this project submitted by the Civic Platform. Here, Mrs Sobecka, I will say that we have built a great deal, but very much ahead of us, we are developing all the time, Mrs Sobecka, and that is why these investments will always be up to date. Corridor law, so-called law. energy corridors allow for comprehensive, comprehensive solutions. There we solve the problem of transmission service and compensation. A specific compensation calculation algorithm was proposed. It was a bit controversial, because some people said it might be unconstitutional, but it solved the problem of transmission comprehensively. That is why I have a question for the Minister whether the Ministry is working on this project, whether we will solve this problem with specifics and add it to this investment catalogue, because I do not recommend it, it is not [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's the right way. Don't go that way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u292	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u293	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! As has already been said here, the construction of high-voltage transmission networks arouses huge emotions among property owners, which are located on the route of planned energy lines. We all remember the protests of the inhabitants of the agglomeration of Warsaw connected with the construction of the planned Kozienice - Oltarzew line. I have a question for the Minister. What instruments does the Ministry have in the light of the enlargement of this law of plans for new lines and probably related new social protests in order to offset this undoubtedly the priority of the country's energy security, in breach of citizens' property rights, the fall in property value and the harmful impact of these high-voltage lines? Second question. Why does this law have the form of a parliamentary project? Is it precisely to avoid public consultation and with residents and local authorities, through which these new high-voltage lines will run? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u294	Thank you. Mr. Krzysztof Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the Supreme Audit Chamber's report, the threat of electricity supply may not be caused by the poor condition of the transmission networks, but by the need to switch off power blocks or interruptions in their operation. Does the simplification of the procedures for granting the required authorisations for the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks relate to the list set out in the Act? Are these electricity networks included in projects of common interest of the European Union? Is it true that the implementation, completion and financing of specific investments of Polish Electricity Networks, the electricity transmission system operator, is financed by EU funds? Are settlement dates at risk? It's also a very important matter. Last question: Should these networks also serve to transit electricity between selected countries of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u296	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Two questions. Firstly, the issue of the impact of high voltage lines on citizens' health. Does the Minister have analyses or studies in this area, because it is known that Polish standards regarding the distance at which housing is located are quite liberal in relation to similar regulations in other countries? Do we have a position here? Second line. I would like information on the consultation on the Kozienice-Ołtarzew line, as this consultation took place from your point of view, the conclusions of this consultation. I know that the Minister was also personally involved in this process. Finally, the third point. Is this decision to change the course of the Kozienice - Love line the final decision? A few days ago, you announced that this is still an analysis option. What is the state of play in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u298	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As for the fact that transmission networks really need to be expanded, there is no doubt about it, and this is something that needs to be done. Not only should you build new ones, but you also need to remember about the old ones that are already very decapitalized. It'd be good to freshen it up a little bit. On the other hand, the law, which is being processed, is a law which, of course, extends the scope of those activities which the government intends to carry out. This law has to do with it, that it can actually carry out the entire investment process quite quickly, because there are appropriate records there. The only question is: Is there a lot of excitement in the situation in which the protests will take place - and we know that already these locational indications that were initially proposed - the ministry or government will be willing, when certain things are also economically viable, to derogate from the proposed routes based on these protests? Because it would be appropriate, even though the law could circumvent these protests, to take into account the opinion of both local governments and residents. Is the government and the ministry open to such consultations that, in some situations, may even lead to a change in the course of the line? Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u300	Mr Sylvester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Like my previous speaker, Mr Sitarski, I am talking about putting our transmission networks into a larger scheme of European networks. We have been talking a lot about energy security for many years. This includes gas safety, fuel safety, but also energy security. I come from the city myself - like Marshal Brudziński - where a few years ago we had blackout, the city had no energy for three years... We've seen exactly what might happen if we continue to neglect the transmission networks. There could be a tragedy. I have a specific question that is actually relevant to international networks. Whether this law, whether we in our spatial planning, in our, I do not know, strategic thought, when typing into the strategic development plans of the Polish country we see... How many of these networks do we see, and do they still have to be planned? Do we have a finished, completed project here, or do we still have inter-ministerial arrangements at some point or between embassies? That's the question. On the other hand, we know that there is a second problem. Through our country, for example. Germany sends its energy from the north of Germany to the south of Germany, some of the energy is transmitted by Poland. Are we here too... Is this under some kind of arrangement, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or is it just someone's own self-will? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u302	Thank you. And Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to inform the representatives of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, who are so concerned about the development of high, low, medium voltage energy networks, that if you had not blocked these investments for the last eight years - because you voted against this parent law that we are updating today - that would probably be more. And I personally declare to Mrs Sobecka that I will pass on the brochure on how many things we have done in these eight years. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister in view of the fact that the issue of receiving a block in Kozienice is really forcing extra-fast energy distribution measures. I would like to ask you about the first issue connected with the termination of the contract for the construction of the Kozienice - Oltarzew line, with the extraction of power from Kozienice to the Oltarzew station. As we know, it happened at the end, I mean, in the third quarter or at the turn of the third and fourth quarters of last year. Mr Kłossowski, President of PSE, says: We do not give up the plan to connect Kozienice Power Plant. This investment is crucial and justifies the seriousness of... At what stage, Minister, is this a failure by the PSE Management Board to implement this line? As for the second case, which has been raised several times here, I could refer to it in general, too, because these are difficult things. We built highways, we know what the problem is, [[♪ The bell ♪]] also based on special regulations. How do you intend to maintain this balance, the balance between constitutional property rights and the achievement of a legitimate public objective? What does it look like in practice? Indeed, these protests of various local communities are increasing, so it seems to me that it would be good to prepare for it responsibly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u304	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Just a few more questions. Firstly, in the project during the process in the Seym, the terminology changed in part, namely the modernisation of the line was replaced by the construction of the line. What effect does this have on the progress of the entire investment process in terms of timing, but also on the consultation that should be carried out with local authorities and the local community? And that's the basic question. Is it possible to deviate from today's course, i.e. to change the course of this line and the position of the poles, due to the fact that it is a construction rather than modernization? Finally, who and what compensation can he count on? Can they be counted only on those on whose properties, parcels will be located a pillar, or on those who lose due to the conduct of a line over a given property, a given parcel, a given company, a given holding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u306	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Piotr Naimski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna try to answer the questions you're asking here, and I'm gonna group them up a little bit. Maybe I can answer the recurring question first about why this is a parliamentary project. This is a draft amendment of a special law and this specialty of the law also affects the speciality of the mode of amendment. And we really care about time. We also believe that public consultations, which are of course necessary for the construction of this type of linear investment, will have to be carried out. They will be carried out, but at the stage of implementation, not the amendment of a special law. A special law is a legal regulation that will apply, it will be able to apply, in fact, when it is actually necessary. I would like to say that the fact that a line is in a special regulation does not necessarily mean that the implementation of this investment will be carried out on the basis of this special law. We try, Polish Power Grids, but also Gaz-System, for various linear projects in the country in the first place normal modes. It's obvious this is the way it's supposed to be. The special procedure is used and is used in some cases when the deadlines can actually be compromised and have an impact on the issues that are relevant to you. This important issue for you in this case may indeed be the threat of removing new power or new power from the Kozienice Power Plant. Here I will refer to the question that was related to it, how it is actually, because transmission networks are transmission networks, and the danger of safety concerns may come from the fact that one of the blocks will turn off, one of the power plants will fail. It could come from something else. It could be because we're going to build a power plant that we can't, we're not going to be able to bring out power, and the power deficit in the power balance for a certain period of time is not going to be covered by the new investment. For this reason, these transmission networks related to new investments in energy blocks are considered strategic. With regard to our connections to the European energy network, which has been raised in a number of questions, we have these interconnectors. They are necessary for us on the one hand, we need them, because in cases of a particular power deficit in Poland we have the possibility of temporary temporary imports from countries or neighbouring networks, but at the same time creates this, and one of the Members mentioned this too, certain problems. It's the so-called. The circular flows that we are dealing with at a time when we are uncontrollably affected by wind energy from northern Germany, which disrupts our energy network and through our energy network is transferred to the Czech Republic and then to Bavaria or Austria in a way, I say, wild. This is still the subject of discussions between regulators, sorry, Polish, German and Czech operators. In short, it is on the European forum. This problem is still unsolved. So that international connections are needed, but their control is necessary, and that is obvious. If I am already on this issue, Polish energy networks implement certain transmission networks with support from European funds, but in this case this is not anticipated. As far as compensation is concerned, compensation shall be governed by law. The special act also provides for a special compensation procedure. It is obvious that all this will be carried out, as always must be carried out, in accordance with the applicable law. It's the law that tells you exactly how it's gonna be done. Everyone who's interested knows that. Regarding the issue of this particular planned line from Kozienice to Love, the extension line, there is a one-track 400-kilometer line. This modernization, the expansion is to be related to the reconstruction of it into a two-track line. This is a situation connected, perhaps by the way, with a change in nomenclature, so to speak, from modernization to construction. This is indeed the result of the Construction Law. We prefer to standardize it. Generally speaking, the word "modernization" is subject to certain interpretations, and the word "construction" is a clear word, defined and defined in other laws. Hence, there is this provision introducing uniformity. If I may say two words, I will say two words about the Kozienice-Altar line. The Kozienice - Oltarzew line stays on the list in the annex to the special act, because in the end there is no final decision at the level of the investor, i.e. Polish energy networks. The contract with ZUE has been amicably terminated because the investor has come to the conclusion that the terms of the contract cannot be met by the ZEU. The EU has acknowledged that it is unable to fulfil these conditions because it has been amicablely resolved. At this point, I will remain at this level of information. This happened independently, I can say, from the protests of local governments or residents of the areas on the planned routes of this line. In parallel, additional analyses were carried out for several months with the participation of the contractor and it turned out that this cannot be done as planned, as we found it a year ago with a piece of it. The option on the other side of the Vistula is an alternative option. He seems to be very interesting. Studies on this issue are being carried out. We care very much about time, therefore this amendment of the special act in a special, because of the Members' mode. Excuse me, but... Actually, I think that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u308	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Zubowski, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u309	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. The average age of transmission networks in Poland is over 30 years - generation capacity - and the losses on delivery are about 8% , twice as high as in the western countries. So I guess there's no doubt that we're simply forced to make some investments. I just want to add one more thing. On the part of the Polish People's Party, there were allegations concerning the introduction of amendments to the law in the form of a parliamentary project. I would just like to remind you that the project that we are changing has also been introduced in parliamentary mode, and it was a project by PSL. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u310	Thank you. The applicant's representative, Mr Marek Suski, also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would first of all like to thank all the representatives of the clubs on behalf of the applicants. Of course, in addition to our club, the other clubs did not make a clear negative statement, in fact outside of PSL. This bill, you might say, is extremely necessary. There were a lot of questions here about what would have happened if we hadn't built this line. Exactly - a threat to the energy security of the Warsaw agglomeration. But, ladies and gentlemen, there have also been a few questions about what the public consultation and criticism of this proposal looked like, which really opens up the possibility of finding an alternative route for the highly protested variant of the Kozienice Altarzew. The most surprising thing is that this criticism came from the club PSL, whose Marshal Struzik proposed this course in an extremely protested spatial development plan. Mr Maliszewski is not here. We both live in the area through which this line is to pass, and we are both looking for the least difficult solution for the inhabitants, and the solution that was proposed just by Marshal Struzik of PSL, was undoubtedly extremely burdensome and prepared in a quite, I would say, socially unacceptable. When the big protests began, the PSL state also changed its option to the so-called. a social option that has been passed through other municipalities, where huge protests have also begun, and which has not been consulted either. As we hear here from Mr Maliszewski that this bill has not been properly consulted with the mayors and mayors, I can say that I have seen the mayors and mayors of the communes prepared by the PSL states in the variant of Ołtarzew - Kozienice or another passage, Kozienice - Warka - Jasieniec - Grójec - Mszczonów. All the uncles came and said that they had not been consulted on this option, that they had also learned that it had fallen on them like thunder from the sky. So we can say that we are repairing what he has not done, among others. PSL. And that's it. I wanted to answer those charges. I think Mr Maliszewski knew what it was like because he did not stay here to hear the answers because he knew that the answer would be devastating for them. But returning to the tone of responsibility, I would like once again to thank all those who, in their responsibility for the development of the country, for the possibility of extracting energy from Kozienice and bringing it to the Warsaw agglomeration despite some criticism and comments, said that they would support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u312	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to the next points. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act of Law... [[Voices from the room: Resolution!]] Excuse me, High House. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the field of transmission networks, print no. 1257. The proposed amendment to the Law of 24 July 2015 on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks aims to extend the list of strategic investments in transmission networks set out in the Annex to the Act, which are of key importance in ensuring the energy security of the country. Applicants point to the need to carry out these tasks mainly because of the construction of a new 1075 MW carbon block in Kozienice Power Plant, which increases the installed capacity of the power plant by more than 30%. The investment will allow power to be removed from the power plant, which will increase the power transmission capacity towards Warsaw and the north-eastern part of the country with all the criteria for reliable operation of the network. This will have a positive impact on the development of the Warsaw agglomeration and the north-eastern part of Poland, which is included in deficit areas in terms of coverage of power and electricity demand due to the small number of generation sources. In addition, the investment will partially increase the level of security of power supply for the Krakow agglomeration. According to the applicants, the procedated special act should lead to a reduction in the number of administrative decisions taken due to the optimisation of the process of issuing them by excluding certain provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure in scope. Moreover, the revenue of the state budget and local government units is expected to increase as a result of the increase in income from PIT, CIT, VAT and revenue from local taxes and charges. It is also important that these strategic investments in the construction of electricity transmission lines will not be financed by the state budget, which means that this regulation will not affect the public finance sector. It is also important that the conditions for stable economic development of the country will be created by improving the quality and reliability of electricity supply and thus the development of transmission networks will directly contribute to the increase in the volume and scope of production of local enterprises. I am convinced that these factors will compensate for any inconvenience to the inhabitants of the areas through which the electricity lines will run. In the view of the applicants, this regulation will give the regions instruments to make better use of their assets, including the use of EU funds. Regions will increase their competitiveness in attracting investors and will have additional opportunities to shape the labour market. This in turn will positively boost entrepreneurship and employment through the development of existing and the emergence of new economic operators. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle share the arguments of the applicants and support the draft law amending the law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks, together with the amendment of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u314	That's to point 19. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law on National Tax Administration and the Act on National Tax Administration. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned items 26th and 27th agenda, i.e. the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Patent Advocates, as well as the report of the Committee on Health on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki (prints 1099 and 1271). I would like to ask Anna Elizabeth Soboba to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u315	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the work on the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki on the 30th anniversary of his death. During the work of the commission, Robert Telus presented the biography and importance of the work of God's servant Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki, who contributed to the consolidation of the most important social attitudes of Poles. On 2 December 2016, Draft Resolution No 1099 entered the Sejm and was then addressed to the first reading in the Committee on Culture and Media, where it was discussed in detail. The Committee on Culture and Media adopted the resolution unanimously. Father Franciszek Blaclinicki was born on 24 March 1921 in Rybnik. During World War II he fought with the Nazi invader and stayed in the concentration camp in Oświęcim for 14 months, of which he spent 9 months in the penal company. In March 1942, he was sentenced to death by beheading for conspiracy against the Nazi Reich. After more than 4.5 months of waiting for the execution of the sentence, he was pardoned, and the death penalty was replaced with 10 years in prison after the end of the war. During his stay in the convict's unit, Francis Blaclinicki's sudden, miraculous conversion to personal faith in Christ, combined with his decision to give his life in his service, was accomplished. After the end of the war, he joined the Silesian Seminary in Krakow. He organized and ran a catechetical centre, and since 1957 - social anti-alcoholic action Mon. The Crusade of Abstinence, which took on the character of a religious-moral renewal movement based on spirituality o. Maximilian Kolby. In 1963 Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki re-run the Oase Light-Life Retreat. The beginnings of the history of the movement go back to the first oasis, i.e. the retreat of a retreat of a survival character, which took place in 1954 with the participation of altar boys. The formation work started in the retreat oasis was continued in a small group in the parish. Father Franciszek Blaclinicki as the founder of the movement has developed the necessary assistance for it. In this way the oasis has developed into a movement called the Light-Life Movement, which aims to raise mature Christians. Despite various external difficulties, the Light-Life Movement has developed very quickly in Poland and has penetrated beyond Poland - Bulgaria, Brazil, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Germany, Austria, it is also present in Belarus, Ukraine and Latvia since 2006 - Ireland and the United Kingdom, as well as in the United States, China and Canada. It currently operates in more than 30 countries, making it an international movement. Father Franciszek Blaclinicki died suddenly in Carlsberg on 27 February 1987. On 9 December 1995, his beatification process began. He left a rich scientific, popular and scientific and ascetic-formative achievements. On 17 February 1994, he was honoured posthumously with the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland, and on 5 May 1995 he received the Auschwitz Cross posthumously. The 30th anniversary of the death of God's servant Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki is a great event in the history of Poland. His life and activities throughout the period of the Polish People's Republic show that he was not only a holy priest, but also a great patriot, who was an educator in the freedom of Poles. In view of the above, the Committee on Culture and Media calls for the commemoration of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki on the 30th anniversary of his death. As I said at the beginning, the committee unanimously adopted a resolution of the Polish Parliament on the commemoration of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki on the 30th anniversary of his death: On the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki, Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to this great patriot, soldier, clergyman and social activist. Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki devoted his entire life to the welfare of his homeland. He fought as a soldier in the September campaign, acted in conspiracy, was imprisoned in a concentration camp, persecuted by communist security services. His social activities were based on universal values, shaped the moral attitudes of the nation. As the creator of the Light - Life Movement, he raised young people and adults in the spirit of patriotism, morality and responsibility. Sejm of the Republic of Poland - appreciating the merits of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki for the Polish Nation and his contribution to the moral development of many generations - he pays tribute to his memory. So much for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u316	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members! We, of course, support this resolution as a law and justice club. The members of the Law and Justice Club, his Members, are the applicants for this resolution. The idea was born in the Parliamentary Group of Members and Sympathists of the Movement of Light-Life and Action of the Catholic Association of Catholic Families and, above all, those Members signed their proposal on this matter. We support this resolution because we know as members and sympathizers of the Movement of Light-Life activities Fr. Blaclinicki, whom we used to call and call father in the movement. To this resolution, which the rapporteur Anna Sobeck has read, I would like to make a small amendment to the hands of Mr Marshal. One paragraph we would like to add would be: On the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki received honorary patronage from the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. And that's the amendment to your marshal's hand I'm making. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u318	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Bogusław Sonik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! The Civic Platform supports the draft resolution. In February 2017, the 30th anniversary of the death of a prominent theologian, soldier, priest and patriot Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. He was born in Rybnik, during the Second World War he took part in the defensive war in 1939, then connected with the conspiracy. He was arrested by the Gestapo in 1942, sentenced to death. While awaiting execution, Fr. Balnicki survived his conversion. After the war, he joined the seminary and received priestly ordination in 1950. He was the initiator and activist of the social movement of the Abstinence Crusade for anti-alcoholic activities. In 1961 he was arrested on the charge of spreading false information about the persecution of the Church in Poland and was imprisoned in the same prison in Katowice, where he was imprisoned during World War II and where he was converted. It is worth paying attention to the special theology that Fr. Balnicki, based on the assumption of peaceful liberation from the communist regime. He was the founder of the Light-Life Movement. During the period of the Polish People's Republic he was under surveillance by the Security Service. The security services were working through their associates, they were SB agents. The outbreak of martial law found him in Rome, but he could no longer return to Poland. He therefore settled in the German Carlsberg and in 1982 founded the Christian Service for the Liberation of Nations directed to the nations of Eastern Europe fighting to gain sovereignty towards the Soviet Union. He died in Carlsberg in 1987, and the IPN investigation showed that the possible cause of death was poisoning, not, as previously reported, pulmonary embolism. The beatification process is currently underway, which was launched in 1995 and is close to completion. Pope Francis signed a decree about the heroicity of his virtues. In connection with the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Francisz Blaclinicki I'd like to [[♪ The bell ♪]] the initiators should pay attention to the inaccurate wording set out in the above mentioned above. a resolution, perhaps you will still be able to correct it. It says he was in a concentration camp. In addition, the justification for the draft resolution included a sentence, also inaccurate: imprisoned in the concentration camp in Oświęcim. I would like to point out that the official name of this memorial is the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum, a former German concentration camp. The oasis movement was salt in the eyes of the communist authorities. They followed the organizers, imposed mandates, used other types of harassment towards hosts who gave hospitality to oazovics, but the communists were not able to stop the dynamics of the development of the work of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which the Holy Spirit evidently led throughout his life, and Fr. Balnicki read and implemented God's plan to free man from evil and from structural oppression. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u320	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak. Mr Józwiak made a statement in writing. In that case, Mr Grzegorz Furgo. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Father Franciszek Blaclinicki, the oppressor of God's Kingdom - John Paul spoke of him as II. Born in Rybnik in 1921 in a large family of Józef and Maria Blaclinicki. He was an active boy scout when he was a kid. In 1938, he graduated and entered military service. As an 18-year-old boy after the September defeat, he founded a conspiracy organization in Tarnowskie Góry. In 1940, he fell into the hands of the Gestapo. After a few weeks of interrogation, he was transported to the concentration camp in Oświęcim, where he stayed for 14 months at 1201, including 9 months in the penal company and almost a month in the bunker. He was transferred from Oświęcim to the Zabrze detention center, then Katowice. In 1942, he received a death sentence by beheading for conspiracy activities against the Reich. He spent the next few months in custody, awaiting execution of the death sentence, but was pardoned, and the death penalty was converted to 10 years of heavy prison after the end of the war. Until then, he was to be in Nazi labor camps and prisons. On April 17, 1945, he was released by the American army. During his stay in custody, there was an event about which he later referred to as the most important event in his life. He decided to become a priest. After the end of the war, he joined the Silesian Spiritual Seminary in Krakow and studied at the Faculty of Theology at the Jagiellonian University. In 1950 he was ordained priest. His activity, so hated by the regime at that time, began in the early 1950s, creating structures for the Christian renewal movement. He opened a catechetical center, started an anti-alcoholic action - the Crusade of Abstinence, which took on the character of the movement of religious and moral renewal based on spirituality o. Maximilian Kolby. 3 years of activity of this movement were enough for the government of the Polish People's Republic to eliminate the headquarters of the Crusade of Abstinence in Katowice, while Fr. Blaclinicki was arrested and sentenced to 13 months in prison with a suspension for 3 years. Since 1961, Fr. Blaclinicki continues his studies at the Catholic University of Lublin, where he also PhDs. He publishes about 100 scientific and popular works, works as an assistant and assistant at KUL. He resigns from employment as a sign of protest against the failure by the Ministry of Education to approve his habilitation work. In 1963 Fr. Balnicki re-run an oasis retreat. This is how a movement called the Light-Life Movement was born today, whose purpose was to raise good Christians and realize them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The post-op vision of the Church as a community. Can I have a second? Because I... Thank you. Father Blaclinicki led a mild revolution without hatred and violence. By accepting love, he brought thousands of young people to the Church. From his church he made the church open, with retreats in the open air, trips to the mountains, a free discussion about faith. All this under the care of cardinals. Wojtyła, who protected the movement of oazowa from the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. The Light-Life movement also inspired members of the Catholic Church in Slovakia, in the Czech Republic, Germany, Belarus and Lithuania. During the period of "Solidarity" Fr. Balnicki established an Independent Christian Social Service to promote the idea of a nonviolent liberation movement. The martial law found him in Rome, he never returned to Poland again. He settled in Carlsberg in the Polish Marianum Centre. He conducted pastoral work among Polish emigrants, founded the Christian Service for the Liberation of Nations, an association bringing together Poles and representatives of the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe around the idea of sovereignty of the internal unity of nations in the fight for liberation. He died in Carlsberg on February 27, 1987. On February 17, 1994, he was posthumously decorated with the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland and shortly after that Auschwitz Cross. On 9 December 1995, his beatification process began. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Marshal, for the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u322	Thank you. Members of Margaret Zwierzan and Krystian Jarubas have written their speeches in writing, which is why we are moving on to questions. You are the first question to be asked by Mr Kurzepa. There you go, two minutes for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! Madame Member of the Requestor! I welcome the initiative to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki, especially that in the community of the universal Church his charism and proselytical vision are constantly desirable and valid. It seems that the achievements of Fr. Blaclinicki and the multitudes of us who engaged in the Movement of Light-Life gave rise to the refreshing trend in the Church, as defined by St. John Paul II as a spring in the Church, continued today, among others. by the current of the new evangelization which I am a representative of. This initiative should therefore be welcomed and supported with satisfaction. Therefore, the question remains about the possibility of linking it to another, namely with the proclamation of the year 2017 of concern about sobriety of the nation, after all Fr. Balnicki was the creator of the Crusade of Human Liberation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u324	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Anna Soboba a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u325	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one very short question and I address it to the representative of the applicants. I would like to ask: What impact did Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u326	Mr Andrzej Kryj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to address my question to Mr Robert Telus as the representative of the applicants. It is a special thing, it is wonderful that the Polish Parliament will adopt such a resolution, a resolution commemorating the figure of Fr. Blaclinicki - a great patriot, a great man, a unique priest endowed with extraordinary charisma, creators of the oasis movement, movement of light-life. It is good that we will take this resolution, but I would like to ask the question: What other forms of commemoration of this character, which is so important for hundreds of thousands of Poles, are intended to emphasize this figure in order to bring it closer to a wide range of Poles in order to have a positive impact on our society by showing this figure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u328	Thank you, sir. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for your questions, but I would still like to thank all the parliamentary clubs who so agree with this resolution. It is a great honor for us as members of the Light-Life Movement - the Home Church, that so according to all clubs support this resolution, and therefore also support the celebration of Fr Franciszek Blaclinicki and the works he created. On the question that Mr Andrzej Kryj asked, many points were prepared for the celebration of this anniversary on the 30th anniversary of death, among others. On 18 March here, under the patronage of the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda will hold a scientific conference on the social movement of the oasis, as well as the activities of Fr. Balnicki. On the same day there will also be a gala in the Ministry of Economy in the hall, where prizes will be given to people who have particularly deserved the movement, who have particularly deserved to promote the work of Fr. Balnicki. Events are also being prepared in specific cities that are linked to Fr. Francis, or vice versa, with whom Fr. Francis was connected, among others. There will be such an event in Kościenek, also in Tarnowskie Góry, in Katowice and of course, as I said, in Warsaw. To answer Mrs Sobecka's question, I would like to say that the impact of science, so to speak, Fr. Blaclinicki for society, for young people was very large, i.e. First of all, this priest had great charisma, he dragged along during these difficult times, when such works were heavily persecuted, many young people who formed and today can be said, also now form in the Light-Life Movement. At the moment, it is estimated that millions of people have already passed through the Light-Life Movement, who have formed and formed, but also have different functions in society, transferring the values they have acquired in this movement to their activities. I would also like to highlight this part of Father Blaclinicki's activities in Stalinist times. When all Catholic organizations were liquidated, Fr. Francis found opportunities to take up educational work with children and young people, working with altar boys. After October 1956, he became involved in the creation of a great work of religious and moral renewal, the Crusade of Abstinence, to which about 100,000 joined. Abstinents. The sobering of customs - not only sobering in terms of alcohol, but sobering of customs - has resulted in the liquidation by the authorities of the Crusade headquarters in Katowice, while Fr. Balnicki went to prison and was tried for his struggle to liberate his country from drunkenness. Interestingly, he was tried in the same room where the Germans sentenced him to death for fighting for the liberation of Poland 20 years ago. Father Blaclinicki started his studies and work at the Catholic University of Lublin, where he received a PhD and habilitation, twice not approved by the state authorities for political reasons. He developed scientific and pastoral work throughout the country, building a centered Oasis Movement of the Living Church, which was called the Movement of Light-Life, and whose branch is also the Home Church. In this activity he was particularly supported by cardinals. Wojtyła and later Pope John Paul II. Retreat oasiss in Poland included the evangelization of hundreds of thousands of children, young people, adults and whole families, which today results in social responsibility. Today oasis takes place in many countries, for curiosity I will say that among others. in countries like China. In 1979 Fr. Blaclinicki along with the Movement of Light-Life, inspired by the teaching of John Paul II, initiated a great movement to build a culture of free life - the Crusade of the Liberation of Man raising up to sobriety and social-political engagement. The next social works of Father Blaclinicki were related to the breakthrough of Solidarity - evangelization of working environments and the Independent Christian Social Service established in 1981. The martial law was found by Fr. Blaclinicki on his trip to a foreign symposium. Seeing the great pastoral needs of the emigration of martial law, he settled in a Polish center in Carlsberg, creating a center for evangelization, doing apostolic work there. He established the Christian Service for the Liberation of Nations, uniting old and new emigration. He collaborated with emigration from other Eastern European countries, thus preparing a post-Sovieticum overcoming the post-Sovietist order. In this way he created the trend of Polish liberation theology, which was part of the world's non-violence movement, which means liberation without violence. Father Blaclinicki was under surveillance by a multiplayer specifically established in Nowy Sącz - it is estimated that more than 200 officers - the SB cell, also abroad, and as a wanted by the martial law authorities with a BOLO, which was only cancelled in 1995, had a closed return to the country. He died suddenly in 1987. And here one of the Members also pointed out that there are many doubts about his death in Carlsberg, because it turned out that the closest family, the marriage that worked with Fr. Balnicki, they were security officers. His pastoral initiatives also bring fruit in social life today, among others. By raising free people. His beatification process started in 1995 in Katowice led to the announcement in Rome on 1 October 2015 of a decree on the heroicity of virtues constituting the basic stage of the future beatification. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As a member - along with my wife and children - of the Church's Home Movement, the Oaz Movement - I will conclude my speech with the call of Fr. Blaclinicki, as well as all members of the Light-Life Movement: for the figure of Fr. Blaclinicki and for his work - praise the Lord. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u330	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed... I'm sorry, ma'am. Anna Sobecka, please, the draftsman of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u331	Thank you, Marshal. I just wanted to thank all of you for your beautiful speeches and thank you for working on this resolution. And I wanted to share with you this reflection, because I come to the conclusion that we need to present the great holy Poles more often, so that they become models for us to follow and form our behaviours. In reply to Mr Kurzepa on the crusade of sobriety, I must say that today the Committee on Culture and Media voted a resolution giving the title to the year 2017, it is to be a year of concern for the sobriety of the nation, as we will probably talk about at the next session of the Sejm. In conclusion, I just wanted to quote the words of our great St. John Paul II, who spoke of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki: His many talents of mind and heart, some particular charism that God gave him, gave up the construction of God's Kingdom. He built them with prayer, apostolicism, suffering, and built them with such determination that we rightly think of him as the oppressor of this Kingdom. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u332	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club PSL supports the draft resolution on commemorating the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. Father Blaclinicki fought as a soldier during World War II, in occupied Poland he acted in conspiracy, he was sent to a concentration camp where he was on death row, in the post-war period he was repressed by communist security services. For many years, the clergyman has been interested in publicists and historians. As some of them say, he was a visionary - already in the early 1980s he predicted the peaceful breakup of the world behind the iron curtain. The communist authorities practically surveillance him from the beginning, he was one of the most hated by them Polish clergymen. The surveillance didn't stop even when the priest went abroad. Father Blaclinicki was also the founder of the Light-Life oasis. The resolution proposed by the applicants is a tribute to the dedicated person Fr. Blaclinicki for his contribution to the moral development of many generations of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u334	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz 15 Club on the resolution on the commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. Father Franciszek Blaclinicki is a character with an extremely rich résumé, and at the same time, it can be said without any hesitation, a form of great format, which should serve us all as an example. Born in 1921 in a large Silesian family, he devoted his entire life to the benefit of society and the nation. He did not run away from the duties that stood before him as a Pole - during World War II he participated in the September campaign until the end. He was captured, fled, and devoted himself to his conspiracy. After the arrest by the Gestapo, he was imprisoned in Auschwitz. He received the death penalty and, awaiting his sentence, survived the conversion. After the end of the war, he joined the Silesian Seminary in Krakow and received priestly ordinations. As a priest, he focused all his energy on working for the nation - he devoted himself to working with young people and adults, shaping their attitudes in the spirit of patriotic and Catholic values. Because of his activities, he was under surveillance by the SB, and his death may not have been accidental. Recalling the figure of Fr. Franciszek Blaclnicki and remembering his activities, we also recall the most beautiful model of social and patriotic attitude, which is not only worth it, but even should be brought closer to Poles, both the older ones and the younger ones. The attitude that combines, in my opinion, the most important virtues for our nation: the virtue of the sense of responsibility for the homeland and other people, deep patriotism and equally deep faith. Thanks to these virtues, the social activity of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki was based on universal values: truth, responsibility, respect for life and love for another man, deep love for the country and nation. His faith, patriotism, courage and wonderful attitude became a model for the vast number of Poles, whom Fr. Balnicki served his entire adult life, but also for those who were no longer lucky to meet him personally. Given the merit of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki, whom he put on the side of the service of the nation and at the same time raising the nation, his undisputed courage and steadfastness with which he went through the Hell of World War II and the times of communism, as well as his contribution to the moral development of many generations of Poles and the unexplained death, there is no doubt that it is our duty to honor him. On behalf of the Kukiz 15 Club, I would therefore like to express my deepest support for the resolution on commemorating the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u335	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo! On the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to pay tribute to this great patriot, soldier, clergyman and social activist. Father Franciszek Blaclinicki does not need to be introduced to anyone, but it is worth highlighting his participation in the September campaign, the creation of anti-Hitler conspiracy or the imprisonment in the concentration camp. In the face of death, he discovered a path of faith that he never lost. He extended his love for God as part of the Oaz Children of God and the Movement of Light-Life. I particularly admire Fr. Blaclinicki for establishing the Crusade of Abstinence - the Abstinence Movement, whose idea should be close to each of us during this particular period - in the year of the National Congress of Sobriety, therefore commemorating the resolution of the anniversary of the death of a priest by the Polish Sejm has a double meaning. Special attention has been paid to the subjectivity of man, and his openness, poverty, and willingness to help others deserve special recognition. He didn't even forget about society or his homeland for a moment. Father Blaclinicki is a symbol of courage, because without fear of consequences, he criticized the Pałtan system of subjugation of the Soviet Union to the eastern part of our continent, which many others did not have the courage to do. It looked as if he was the only one who predicted the negative effects of the Soviet presence in Poland. Father Franciszek Blaclinicki is a great authority, and his universal words: "Life can only be a source in love" should always guide each one of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u336	As amendments to the proposed resolution were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this proposal after the text of the amendments has been delivered to the Members. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Employment of Temporary Workers and some other laws (Print No 1274). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and some other laws contained in print no. 1274. The drafting of the bill submitted due to the legal arrangements which are important for the functioning of the labour market and the reduction of irregularities in both the functioning of the employment agencies and temporary employment agencies, the employment of temporary workers or outsourcing was preceded by extensive consultations with the social partners and other stakeholders active in the temporary labour market. These consultations have recently been held at the Social Dialogue Council in the Labour Law Problem Team. The findings resulting from the work of this team have completed a period of more than 2 years of various activities on the analysis of the requests made and the effects of their possible introduction into the legal order and on the temporary labour market. The social partners involved in the consultation considered it appropriate to undertake specific legislative work in the areas covered by the draft law, indicating that this would be an effective means of achieving the intended objective of raising the standards of temporary work and combating abuse in this area. I would like to stress that many of the solutions adopted in the draft law are the result of an agreement or compromise between representatives of environments interested in the development of the temporary labour market in Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Temporary employment contracts are seen in the labour market as a very flexible and relatively low financial burden on the employment model. The result is an increasing use of this form of work by companies and a rapid, continuous development of the temporary labour market. The number of temporary employment agencies and users' companies is increasing and the number of temporary workers is increasing. Unfortunately, at the same time there is information about the abuse of this form of employment and the non-compliance with the rights of temporary workers. The draft law is therefore intended to introduce regulations to improve the employment conditions of temporary workers, to increase the protection of the employment agency's clients, as well as the legal security of temporary employment agencies and employers of users and, as a result, to improve the standards of temporary employment. The legal solutions proposed in the proposed bill should also improve the effectiveness of the control activities carried out by the State Labour Inspection in the area of broadly understood temporary work. I will now come to the discussion of the most important solutions contained in the bill. They relate in particular to the provisions of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and the Act on the Promotion of Employment and Employment Market Institutions. The key proposal from the point of view of the proposed law is to specify precisely in the provisions of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers the limits of temporary employment, the current arrangements in this respect. they are insufficient and do not prevent the creation of successive temporary agency only for the purpose of ensuring that the same temporary worker can be repeatedly directed to the performance of temporary work for the same employer of the user. Such a phenomenon is often called the doughnuting of temporary employment agencies. The operation of such agencies in practice leads to a deterioration of the substance of temporary work, making the institution for the temporary use of a person's work a model based on the continuous use of such work in cases where the work should and may be carried out by its own employees of the user's employer. The project therefore assumes a limit of 18 months of temporary work carried out over a period of 36 consecutive calendar months, both in the case of directing the same temporary worker to the user's employer concerned, and in the case of the use of the same temporary worker by a specific employer. This limit will therefore apply regardless of whether the referral to the employer is made from one or more temporary employment agencies. This limit will also apply to the performance of temporary work under civil law agreements, as well as where a person performs such work under both a contract of employment and a contract of civil law. I hope that the proposed regulation on the limits of temporary work will reduce the phenomenon of the agency's doughnuting and thus restore the proper, temporary nature of such work. Ensuring the proper application of the proposed rules on temporary work limits requires the introduction of arrangements enabling the temporary agency to determine whether the applicant has been working for the user's employer in the last 36 calendar months, on the basis of which and for how long. This will be served by the proposed amendments to the provisions on the content of the work certificates issued by the temporary agency, as well as new arrangements for the issuing of certificates by such agencies on the performance of temporary work by the person concerned on the basis of civil law agreements. It is also important to propose a change, according to which the temporary staff member will have much easier contact with the temporary agency employing him. At present such contact is difficult, because the temporary worker most often does not know where and how he could contact his legal employer, the agency of temporary employment. Because of the specific nature of the temporary work, he keeps in constant contact with the employer of the user, testifying to his work. The draft therefore requires the temporary agency to provide the temporary staff member with contact details to the agency that employs him and to provide information on any modification of such data. Such a solution should improve the legal situation of temporary workers and enable them to establish direct contact with the agency, e.g. if necessary, explain the current concerns about the work they provide. Another major change in the provisions of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers is the proposal that the contract of employment with a pregnant temporary worker should be extended until the date of birth if such contract is to be terminated after the expiry of the third month of pregnancy. I admit that during the drafting of the bill, this solution was controversial, although the proposal to cover such workers with specific legal protection was not contested. We have sought different alternatives, taking into account in particular the organisational and financial consequences of extending the contract until the date of birth, which may arise on the part of temporary employment agencies and employers of users. I think that a fair assessment of the new rules will only be possible after a certain period of time. The draft submitted also provides for amendments to the rules on how to calculate the remuneration for temporary staff leave periods and the monetary equivalent for such leave. The need to clarify these provisions was notified by all interested parties to the temporary labour market as well as by the State Labour Inspection. The specific nature of temporary work justifies the application in this respect of certain exceptions in relation to the regulations covered by workers engaged in work under the Labour Code. However, these exceptions should be precisely enough to ensure that, in practice, there are no doubts as to how to calculate the remuneration for the temporary worker's rest period or the amount of his equivalent for such leave. The proposed law contains such regulations. New regulations determining the criminal liability of both temporary employment agencies and the employer of the user for violating certain provisions of the Act also serve to increase the effectiveness of the checks carried out by the State Labour Inspection. This concerns, in particular, non-compliance with the rules on temporary work limits and the assignment of temporary work to a worker who cannot be carried out by him. It is also proposed to extend the liability of the user's employer to cases of failure to keep records of the working time of the temporary worker and to prevent temporary use of rest leave. In order to increase the effectiveness of the proposed solutions and to not differentiate sanctions against employers of users and temporary employment agencies for offences against the rights of temporary staff, the proposed law provides for a fine to be fixed at the same level as laid down in the Labour Code for offences against workers' rights, i.e. 1 000. PLN up to 30,000. zł. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed bill also contains amendments to the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions concerning the employment agencies' activities. The proposed amendments aim to increase the level of protection of persons using employment agencies' services and to improve the effectiveness of the State Labour Inspection's control activities in the fight against abuse and pathology in the field of the employment agencies' activities. To this end, two types of employment agencies have been introduced: temporary employment services and employment services, personal advice and career guidance. Both types of agencies will receive different certificates. Secondly, an obligation to register employment agencies for foreign entrepreneurs from the European Union providing temporary work has been introduced. The adoption of such a solution will increase the level of protection of persons using temporary employment services, as a number of obligations and sanctions relating to failure to fulfil these obligations are imposed on the employment agency, together with the entry in the employment agency's register. The furthest and most severe sanction is the removal of the employment agency from the above mentioned. the register, which is equivalent to the prohibition on the establishment of employment agencies. Thirdly, there is an obligation to certify the service of directing to work foreigners to entities operating in Poland and new rules for the provision of this service. Such a solution is intended to prevent the current pathology of the labour market by importing and employing foreign nationals by illegal employment agencies. Employment agencies will be required, inter alia. to conclude a written contract with a foreigner addressed to work, informing the foreigner and the entity to which the foreigner is directed to work, among others. about the rules concerning the residence and work of foreigners in Poland, keeping a list of entities to which foreigners are directed, and the list of foreigners to work. Fourthly, the Marshal of the voivodship was given the opportunity to check, every quarter, the arrears of employment agencies providing employment services for temporary social security contributions for employees. The verification will be carried out through the electronic systems set up and made available by the Minister responsible for Labour, using the electronic system of the Social Insurance Institution. Fifthly, the obligation to have an establishment for the provision of employment agency services has been restored, as requested by the State Labour Inspection. Sixthly, the scope of data submitted by employment agencies has been extended, among others. a consequence of the introduction of a separate service for the directing to work of foreigners. After the seventh, there was an obligation for the Marshals of voivodships to keep a list of foreign entrepreneurs from the countries of the European Union providing services in the field of employment mediation, personal advice or vocational guidance in Poland - within the framework of a notification to the Marshal of the voivodship. After eight o'clock, higher penalties were imposed for illegal service provided by employment agencies and for violations of the law against persons employed by them or employed as temporary workers - from 3 000. Up to 100,000. PLN depending on the type of service of the employment agency - and penalties have been imposed for failing to fulfil the new obligations imposed by the employment agency. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are assuming a relatively rapid entry into force of the proposed changes, as in principle the new rules would start to apply on 1 June this year. It is important that on the temporary labour market it is necessary to bring about the application and compliance of new legislation on the employment of temporary workers as soon as possible, including on the limits of temporary work. The rapid application of new legal solutions is also intended to be subject to transitional provisions, according to which new solutions will be applied in principle to temporary employment contracts on the date of entry into force of the Act. This will also apply to the limits of temporary work. We assume that the period of temporary work carried out on the basis of contracts on the date of the entry into force of the Act, starting on that date, would be included in the limits of the temporary work provided for in the new provisions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A detailed description of the changes is contained in the explanatory memorandum of the draft together with the impact assessment and the consultation report of the social partners. I therefore request that the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws, contained in print No. 1274, be referred to for further work in the Sejm committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u338	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Mosiński will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the presentation to the High House of the Declaration of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice on the Government draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws contained in the Seym printing No 1274. After 8 years of government, the coalition of PO and PSL left us high unemployment and a fragmented labour market. [[What are you saying, sir? What high unemployment?]] Temporary employment agencies operating in the unchanged legal area have contributed significantly to this situation. Unfortunately, after a few years it turned out that the establishment of a temporary employment agency as well as the idea of the temporary employment of workers as a platform for exploitation, I repeat, a platform for exploitation, accompanied by a wave of criticism and protests. It wasn't meant to be. In fact, the existing law of July 2003 has become a de facto tool for the exploitation of temporary workers. Currently more than 6.5 thousand are registered in Poland. employment agencies and the number of agencies employed is more than 800,000. employees known as pre-eds. And one of the most frequently cited allegations relating to temporary work is to contribute to pre-criminalisation, i.e. increasing insecurity of work, poverty and reduction of life opportunities for whole groups working under unstable conditions. These prefects represent a large part of the society called working poor. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is regrettable that, for many years, the PO-PSL coalition has not undertaken the work of updating the 2003 Act. Perhaps the inertia of PO and PSL politicians in this case was a silent permission for different ointments of pseudo-employers and ordinary exploiters of temporary workers. I am entitled to such an assumption that during the period of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, both the State Labour Inspection and the NSZZ In 2012, NSZZ.Solidarity submitted a draft amendment to the Act. But, as it was in practice, the parliamentary majority at that time passed such initiatives through a political destroyer. The anti-social policy of the coalition of PO and PSL has also become a cause for the collapse of social dialogue in Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club PiS welcomes the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers. Thus, we confirm our positive approach to solving complex and unsolved social problems by the coalition of PO and PSL. We positively evaluate the solutions recommended in the draft law, including planned intervention tools, and expected results. What is the main purpose of the proposed changes? First of all, increase the standards of temporary employment, the conditions of temporary employment and the legal security of employers using temporary agency services. You can specify from the change directory, among others. introducing more protection for pregnant women in temporary employment, which will mean applying Article to them. 177 § 3 of the Labour Code. The extension of the contract until the date of birth also means that some women will be entitled to maternity benefits which they would not have had if they had not been employed on the day of birth. The introduction of sanctions, i.e. fines, for failure by temporary agency to comply with certain provisions of the Act, are actions in the right direction. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The failure to take any action for 8 years of the PO-PSL coalition's government entitles to claim that care for the unemployed and temporary workers was theoretical care, just as the theoretical was the Polish state. Let me remind you that the term "theoretical state" fell during the conversation of two prominent politicians of the Civic Platform. Thanks to the rule of law and justice, we civilise social relations, raise the minimum wage and set a minimum hourly rate, which is very important also for temporary workers. We are building a strong economical state, as well as a country aimed at the needs of families and poorest groups of Poles. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the Government draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws, Parliamentary Printing No. 1274, be sent to work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u340	Thank you, sir. Mrs Isabella Catherine I'm gonna have to ask you to speak up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the government's draft amendment to the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws, as described in Seym Print No. 1274. This project represents very important changes in the provision of temporary employment services. It follows from the justification that the new rules have only been prepared to improve the situation of workers. It's worth noticing. The project is not intended to support the temporary employment industry, but to protect the interests of workers. It can therefore be concluded that the other parties concerned by the legislation, i.e. temporary employment agencies or undertakings benefiting from the services of such agencies, do not make any substantive or substantiated requests for existing legislation. However, the truth is quite different, because problems concerning complex law, burdensome documents or financial burdens are quite often signalled not only by temporary employment agencies but also by other groups of entrepreneurs. What, then, can company owners expect from the revision that has been discussed today? It follows from the justification that the government will add documents to them to fill in and store them, and will also seek further money to support the broadly understood pro-family policy. Especially worth looking at the last case. Temporary employment agencies will pay remuneration as well as ZUS contributions for certain pregnant workers, even though they will not have employment offers for them. The draft impact assessment states that this can actually affect young, not just pregnant women. Their employment by the temporary agency will be subject to the risk of additional costs. I do not have to stress here that the labour market is less women-friendly than men. It is therefore important to consider this problem very carefully, but in the assessment itself we read further that it is actually a small group of workers that nothing will happen. Indeed, this argument is difficult to deal with in a logical way. On behalf of the entire Civic Platform, I would like to stress with full determination that it is not our intention to defend dishonest employers. Nor do we believe that entrepreneurs are to be better protected by the State than those employed. However, we are all obliged to consider all the arguments and to look at the possible consequences of decisions when making law. The project under discussion today has very concrete effects. There is a danger that some of them will be reversed than the employer would like. I therefore request that the law be referred to the Parliamentary Committees for further work in order to clarify any doubts and possible amendments to the proposed solution. Because I still have time, Mr Mosiński... [[I'm listening, my friend.]] ...I'd like to tell you that unemployment has been falling since 2014, and you're just drawing on what the Civic Platform has done. [[Bullshit.]] As for social dialogue, see how many laws you have introduced have been assessed or passed by the social dialogue committee. You don't like dialogue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u342	Mr Jarosław Porwich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws, i.e. print project No 1274. The public discussion on this law focuses only on the application to temporary workers of articles. 177 § 3 of the Labour Code, i.e. the obligation to renew the employment contract concluded for a limited period of more than 1 month until the date of birth if the contract were terminated after the end of the third month of pregnancy. The public debate focuses only on the fact that this right will be abused - women will be employed massly for a few days after the third month of pregnancy in order to have a six-month salary and maternity benefits. For me, it is ridiculous for all organizations to assume that this law will be abused. It is painful for me to treat Poles as a fraud who will want to extort remuneration and benefits. Remember, trust works both ways. If you Poles do not trust, you will never gain trust. If you want to look for solutions, compromise on this issue, please do so, we propose to re-work this regulation in the committee. I would also like to raise a second point about what you are doing in this project, namely the legalisation of circumvention. Minister, did you or anyone in your department go to the trouble of reading the justification for the original draft Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers of 2003? Are you able to tell the Minister what the ratio legis of this regulation was? Was it intended to allow temporary staff to be recruited under civil law agreements? If the Minister doesn't know, I'd be happy to answer. Quote from the explanatory memorandum of the 2003 project: In the light of the entire regulation, the temporary employment agency will be able to carry out job placement tasks for temporary workers only as their employer within the meaning of the Labour Code. On the other hand, the temporary employment agency will be able to carry out job placement tasks as a party to a contract of employment or a civil law contract concluded with them in relation to persons aged 16 and 26 who are pupils or students and to persons who receive a pension. Another quote from the explanatory memorandum: The proposed law provides for a contract of employment as a basis for a legal relationship between a temporary worker and a temporary employment agency. Alternative application of the civil law agreement would only be possible for pupils, students, pensioners and pensioners. After the amendment, the law of civil law contracts was limited only to persons aged 16 to 18 years. What's the conclusion? The purpose of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers was not to allow them to be recruited under civil law agreements. The mere fact that the agencies are doing this is because the 2003 Act is vague and does not contain a provision which would prohibit it directly. It must be said out loud - people employed in temporary employment agencies are very often people who are unable to find themselves in the labour market, are inefficient, move in a thicket of bureaucracy and regulations. They want to work and earn money, they often do not realize how unfavorable it is for them to enter into civil law contracts. For me, the provision you intend to introduce into the article. 7th bill, sounds funny. How do you want to allow a temporary employment agency under a civil law contract to direct non-workers of such an agency to do work, even if it is temporary work? Temporary work is a special type of work done for the employer of the user and can only be carried out in the three cases indicated in the act, but remains the work. How can you hire an employee to do work under a civil law contract? The fact that the State Labour Inspection does not properly carry out its tasks does not entitle us to legalize what has so far been an act of infradem legis. We are only able to agree to legalise the conclusion of civil law contracts by the agencies if the performance of the contractor or contractor is not a job, but will actually be a commission or a work, while you know very well how abused both forms are. Each of us has a family or friends person who worked in the garbage can who provided work under a civil law contract. No paid leave, no minimum wage, etc., etc. Is this really what we want to condemn Poles who, in view of the complex situation in the labour market, are looking for employment in temporary employment agencies? On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I hope that this project will be worked in a reliable and responsible way in committee. We're calling for an improvement in the situation of temporary workers, and this project is going to do a lot of that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it also contains regulations that cannot be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u344	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project we are discussing here shows that this government is not aware of the realities of the modern labour market or simply does not want to listen. I was wondering if the government wanted to do well or if it just didn't know how to do it. It is a pity that it does not count for the opinion of the interested parties. I would like to point out here that many reservations have been raised during the consultation, which have not been taken into account. Or rather, the ruling party deliberately makes life difficult for workers and entrepreneurs, without paying attention to their opinion and to the risks that generate their idea. As regards the fact that the law on temporary workers should be amended, there is no doubt as years of practice show that pathologies which are in this area should be eliminated and eliminated through correct legal provisions. But when designing a solution, you have to essentially ask yourself two questions. The first concerns the objective, the second concerns the measure. So what is the purpose of the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers? It is intended to allow flexible employment according to the needs of the market. Volatility affects many industries, not only seasonal production, but above all the service sector. The employment of temporary workers allows for a quick response to the need when it appears. Temporary work is an opportunity for many people who return to the labour market after a long break, are just entering the labour market or have problems finding a permanent job. It is also an opportunity to find additional activities. The essence of temporary work is therefore the possibility of quick, flexible employment, for a certain period of time, depending on the needs. Regulation is a means of achieving this objective, which will allow market players to coordinate employers offering temporary work and workers willing to take up it. Employment agencies perform this function. The law that we make should therefore create favourable conditions, safe for each of the parties involved. However, the proposed amendment imposes a disproportionate burden on these actors, completely inadequate to the specific characteristics of the temporary labour market. Firstly, and here I fully agree with my previous speakers, it is extremely irresponsible to impose an obligation on temporary agencies to extend the period of employment of pregnant women. According to the government's idea, the temporary employment contract in case of pregnancy is to be automatically extended until the date of birth. Only seemingly seems to create safe conditions for future mothers. In practice, this generates disproportionate, additional costs for the agency, and thus primarily reduces the chances of temporary employment for women. It's 300,000 today. Temporary workers are women before the age of 44. Which agency will now want to hire a woman in the year of birth if she doesn't really know what time she's making a contract? This is a completely reckless direction. A number of comments in this context have already been made at the stage of the public consultation. And it's really amazing how you're immune to the voices of reason, experts, public opinion. I stress that these comments are not directed against pregnant women. Women who are pregnant should be protected. On the contrary, it is to protect their interests, to protect against the risk that they will not find temporary employment because of their gender and age. Providing basic material security for pregnant women should be an important element of family policies. There is such a mechanism in Polish legislation that provides protection for pregnant persons in the event of their employer's liquidation or bankruptcy. And here, at this point, there is an appeal to the government to consider introducing a similar solution, and in this case, rather than pretending to provide assistance, in practice making the situation of women worse on the labour market. And such solutions currently proposed by the government should never be put in place. In this respect, the Modern Club will, of course, submit an amendment in the course of further work. Secondly, what is the same kind of work? You are trying to ban the employment of temporary workers for the same type of work as the worker who was fired, based on a very vague formulation. It's very dangerous, because it leaves a large field of arbitrary assessment to the control officer. This provision is too broad and inexactly defined by the prohibition area. The scope of interpretation is very large, so there is also a large area for abuse. You impose a fine on those who do not comply with this regulation of employers and agencies, but in fact you do not say when this penalty is at stake. It's very dangerous. The impact will be really easy to predict - agencies and employers will be afraid to hire workers. Because I'm running out of time, and the notes to this bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is much, modern is in favour of referring the bill to further work in committees, these comments will be presented to you in the form of amendments in the course of further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u346	Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan have made their statements in writing. Then we'll proceed with the questions. Mr Paweł Bańkowski is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u347	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the justification of the draft law, the main objective of the proposed amendments is to increase the standards of temporary employment, the conditions of employment of temporary workers and the legal security of employers of users using temporary agency services. However, from the common position of employers' organisations represented in the Social Dialogue Council, which was sent to the hands of the Marshal on 20 February, it follows that the amendments proposed in the Act will lead to a deterioration of the situation of women in the labour market in Poland, which is already very difficult. It should be emphasized that statistically four Poles out of ten working age do not work or seek work. The problem of low professional activity is particularly true for women under the age of 24 and those in the 55+ group. Employers argue that the introduction of increased cost risks associated with their employment in the form of temporary work will certainly limit women's access to the labour market. In addition, changes in temporary employment will further increase the process of professional inactivation, and so remaining in our country at a very high level. And questions, Minister. Does the Minister share the concerns expressed by employers in this letter regarding the labour market for women in Poland? Please inform whether and how the proposed changes will affect the increase in women's participation in Poland. And thirdly, what action has already been taken and what the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy intends to take to stimulate growth [[♪ The bell ♪]] professional activity in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u348	Thank you. I ask Mr Stefan Romecki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the proposed amendments is to improve the standards of temporary work, to improve the conditions of employment of temporary workers and to improve the legal security of employers of users using temporary agency services. This change is regarded as beneficial, protecting temporary workers, minimising areas for circumvention and abuse of fundamental rights. However, I am concerned about the wording of the proposed article. 27a, a criminal provision. I ask you to answer the question of how to interpret and use the wording Please indicate how such agencies will be responsible for the action referred to in Article. 27a. On the basis of the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment? In addition, I ask you to answer the question whether the Minister knows what the ratio legis of the 2003 Act was. I'm talking about the admissibility of civil law agreements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u350	Thank you. I will ask Mrs Margaret Navel to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The temporary labour market has grown to a huge extent in Poland. In 2015 almost 6 thousand were active in Poland. employment agencies. The number of temporary workers is also constantly increasing. Under the new law, all employment contracts with pregnant women, even very short, which would be terminated after the end of the third month of pregnancy, will be extended until the date of birth. Minister! Women account for 47% all temporary staff. Nearly half of them are under 26. In practice, it may turn out that the increase in the risk associated with the employment of this group of workers will deprive them of a friendly tool that has so far effectively allowed entry or return to the labour market. In the course of the work on amendments to the Act, employers proposed other rational solutions that could eliminate abuses and prevent the risks posed by amendments to this Act to women. I wanted to ask the Minister: What are the reasons why employers' proposals have not been taken into account? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u352	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Izabela Mrzygłocka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear that labour law rules are an expression of a compromise between an employer and an employee. And as always, in the case of compromise, both parties are not quite satisfied. The role of the legislator is to create rules that balance the rights and obligations of individual labour market participants. Depending on the economic situation sometimes we need to be more supportive of an entrepreneur who creates new jobs, and sometimes we need to protect people employed when they can be exploited by the company. As I have already said, the amendment discussed today is very unilateral in line with the intention of the government. The attached documents state that the new rules are intended to put an end to confirmed cases of fraud, the consequences of which are borne only by workers. approx. 6.5 thousand registered in Poland. employment agencies. Hence my question: How many of them found such bad practices, whether in a few or in a dozen or in a few thousand? This is very important because the new rules will apply to everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u354	Thank you. And Mrs Elżbieta Duda, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u355	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! At present, unemployment is falling even faster than expected. Nearly half of Polish entrepreneurs already have difficulty finding employees. It is important that the Polish labour market becomes more attractive to foreigners. Therefore, I would like to ask: Will the law in principle improve their situation on the Polish labour market? This is particularly important due to Brussels' expected abolition of visas for Ukrainians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u356	Thank you. On this list, the list of people enrolled in the vote has been exhausted. That is why I ask you to take the floor of Minister Stanisław Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this discussion, for these questions. The discussion shows that the votes are divided. You could say that if there are supporters and opponents, then you have to... I think this measure we've chosen is correct, and that's how I judge these discussions. Two years of discussions, consultations, social partners meetings, dozens of discussions. We have not exactly worked out solutions - I share this view - but also the parties were not in line with the solutions, both the employers' and trade union sides. This is why we have tried to adopt solutions that meet the majority of the proposals that have been agreed with the social partners. First line. Maybe I should start by saying that the Member asked about the issue of non-compliance, which concerns the agency of temporary employment. On 20 February - I have the most recent data - there are 7753 temporary agency, which is as you can see, this growth is huge. It follows from these reasons that it is easy for the agency to establish, as well as the agencies, not always comply with the rules of law. In 2015, because this is the data - by 2016 we will, I think, be hearing in the Chief Labour Inspector's statement tomorrow - 232 inspections carried out in temporary work agencies in 176 found irregularities, i.e. 78% Controlled. 233 inspections in the temporary employers in 175 found irregularities, i.e. 75%, in more than 75% of the controls in this respect were found fraud. So the problem was powerful and this problem was highlighted by both union organisations and employers' organisations, which is not that one party thought there was something wrong and the other did not. Everyone agreed. that these laws need to be amended and improved so that these abuses do not occur, especially those temporary employment agencies that are functioning properly on the market, and from the number of agencies created it is clear that this growth has caused many agencies to malfunction. The second issue, which has been raised several times here, concerns the protection of pregnant women after 3 months of employment. Let me just remind you that today in the code in the article. Article 177 (3) shall apply. Who's working on the employment contract... A woman who is pregnant after a 3-month period cannot be fired from work. He's got this protective period. Here we act similarly: we also give protection to women as part of a temporary agency. It was a trade union request. In fact, employers did not agree that they did not agree, but were looking for another payer. Oh, yeah, I'd like that. named it, pointing to the Social Insurance Institution. This was not accepted, but we also know that the consequence of this change in the case of e.g. a longer sick leave, are the costs that go to the Social Insurance Institution. It's not that the agency will only bear any costs, it'll just spread out in some way. So that this solution should protect, give greater protection to mothers, future mothers, women who are pregnant. With regard to issues relating to foreigners, this matter, which you are asking about, is also a lot of pathology in this area through the agencies. These changes in the bill are supposed to put an end to it. A revision of the law on the implementation of the Seasonal Directive is also being prepared. We hope that these solutions will be adopted by the Council of Ministers in the near future and that a change will also be made in this respect. As far as the question on penalties is concerned, there are similar solutions to those which are currently in the case of penalties resulting from the Labour Code, i.e. the Labour Inspector imposes these penalties, and this is possible in the procedure of a mandate, up to a maximum of 1 000. Up to 2,000. PLN, and in the case of recidivism - up to 5 thousand. zł. Punishment of up to 30,000. zł at the request of the labour inspector may be imposed only in the form of a fine, by judicial procedure. So that I think that we will be able to address the rest of the comments or any amendments already at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u358	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government proposal for a law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers is intended to increase the standards of temporary employment, the conditions of employment of temporary workers and the legal security of employers of users using temporary agency services. We read such assumptions as the right one. One of the major changes proposed is the obligation under which the employer will have to submit to the Agency for review and at its request the content of the internal rules relating to the remuneration of employees and to provide information on possible changes to the remuneration rules. Importantly, the Agency will be required to inform employees in writing of the content of the arrangements between the agency and the employer of the user. A similar requirement applies to information which will allow temporary staff to have direct contact with the Agency's representatives. It will also be a novelty, among other things. the obligation for the employer to keep records of persons temporarily employed under employment contracts and civil law contracts. In the opinion of the PSL Parliamentary Club, these are changes in the right direction, and we will therefore vote in favour of further work on the committee after reading the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws. This amendment aims to improve the standards of temporary work and to increase the protection of workers in this capacity. In view of the violations and abuse of temporary work by employers in this respect, I consider it necessary to make changes. The provision allowing temporary staff to be employed by employment agencies for 18 months within 36 months is currently on the agenda. Among the practices used are the employment of the same employee by various agencies created specifically for this purpose or a slight modification of the name of the position held by him. Being aware of the negative impact these practices have, not only on the sense of safety of workers working for years on temporary contracts, but also on our economy as a whole, I am pleased with the changes initiated in this project. Among them is, above all, the limitation of the employer's employment opportunities for a period of 18 months over the next 36 months, regardless of the number of agencies that direct it and whether a temporary employment contract or a civil law contract would be signed with it. This is certainly a good solution, limiting the possibility of abuse. In my view, it is important in this amendment to clarify what kind of work employers cannot entrust as part of temporary work. Equally important are the provisions facilitating the State Labour Inspection to carry out appropriate checks. This is, among others, the case. the obligation of the employer to keep records of temporary workers, which, in my opinion, will have a very beneficial effect on the protection of workers' rights. However, I am not entirely convinced of the proposed introduction of protection for pregnant temporary workers. Under the new regulations, their contracts will have to be extended. I share the arguments of the opponents of such a solution. In my opinion, this is also contrary to the idea of temporary work. It can help to discourage employers from employing women in this form in the fear that they will be forced to extend their employment when the work is done. Consequently, this may limit women's access to the labour market. However, there is no doubt that this amendment contains a number of changes which I consider necessary. They are undoubtedly also expected by Polish temporary workers. I hope that further work on this project will resolve my doubts. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the further process of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u361	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws, contained in print No. 1274, to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration and the Act on National Tax Administration (prints Nos 1297 and 1313). I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The report on the government draft law amending the Law The provisions introducing the Act on National Tax Administration and the Act on National Tax Administration, print no.1297, are contained in print No. 1313. The Sejm at its 36th meeting on 22 February 2017, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The aim of the proposed law is primarily to introduce adjustment changes related to the fact that the Act of 16 November on National Tax Administration and the Law introducing the Act on National Tax Administration were examined in Parliament at the same time as the laws indicated in this project and it was not possible to agree on their content. This law introduced additional arrangements to improve tax collection, so-called. a package of sealing solutions, including financial collateral solutions. The proposed amendment clarifies and determines the status of employees of the KAS, matters relating to checks due to retirement or incapacity. It aims to adapt human resource management solutions in the customs and treasury service to those that operate in other uniform services. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 23 February 2017, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u363	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Luke Schreiber to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many discussions about the National Tax Administration have already been held in this Chamber, and we have also held them during this term of office of the Sejm during the work of the committee and the subcommittee. Today we are dealing, as the rapporteur said, with adjustments. This time they do not cause such, I think, a heated discussion, but in the course of the committee's work also in addition to a number of technical issues, which are fully agreed upon, there is especially one issue that can arouse some emotions, otherwise understandable. I know it, I see it, and I understand that from customs officers, from tax officials in such a large reform, there are natural concerns in the planned major changes, but I also see how great the determination of the Minister and the entire Ministry is that all of this will take place as little pain for all employees as possible and as often as possible to meet them. I know how many conversations take place not only here in Warsaw, but also in each of our voivodships, in many cities, I see how common sense is also often approach, and I hope that we all agree that the Act on National Tax Administration is necessary, is needed. Finally, we need to take another step towards bringing the VAT mob and all kinds of fraud to bear another blow. This is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government bill and agrees to the opinion of the finance committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u365	Thank you. Mr Janusz Cichoń, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on this submission and, in principle, the committee's report on the amendment of the law introducing the provisions on the National Civil Platform and the National Civil Platform Act. At the start, I would like to say that we believe that this is, however, a law that generates enormous risks in terms of the security of public finances, and we do not share the opinion of the Member and his optimism in this regard. This is not enough, as part of the debate at first reading, I have pointed out the solutions put forward here, which are actually conducive to fraud and will certainly be used by dishonest entrepreneurs to avoid taxation. I'm shocked, by the way, that there is no response from the Minister on this matter so far. I am talking here about corrections following the checks of customs offices, which, with such arrangements as are prescribed in this law, can be carried out, practically, indefinitely and be a way of avoiding, in fact, fulfilling tax obligations. And it's not the only flaw. In general, this bill, as I said, generates enormous threats, in our opinion. Not much, she's unprepared. March 1 is the date of entry into force of this law. Today is 23 February, and we are working on amending the law, and this is on issues that are of fundamental importance to the functioning of the whole administration. If we are talking about excluding tax officials from the civil service corps, we are bringing them back today, then there are a lot of questions about how to prepare the implementation of this reform. The question, therefore, is whether cooperation with the ZUS was established or whether the notification of the tax administration was prepared. In fact, it will be 7 days after creation. If not, those employees won't be insured. Are there working rules that should be consulted and agreed, really, with trade unions? Are there rules of award in the civil service? The tax administration is outside the civil service by means of a solution that we adopted in November, 16 November. These are questions I know the answer to, by the way. We're deep in the woods. The implementation of the bill is practically unprepared. We have problems with the IT system, with its consolidation, with regulations that are actually essential for this administration to function normally, for example. an occupational welfare fund, but also the rules for the award of officers. These are fundamental issues. There are also no documents necessary for the functioning of offices, such as mandatory procedures under the Civil Service Act, i.e. individual professional development programme, recruitment regulations, descriptions, evaluation of workplaces. There are also accounting issues. There are a lot of things that haven't been done so far, and I'll remind you that Wednesday next week the bill is due to enter into force. The basis for putting things together is that today, from a formal point of view, we're just going to generate it. This is an example of absolute carelessness and lack of responsibility for what you do. This is putting the state at risk of enormous losses, because this bill, the way in which this bill is proceded, once again, creates enormous threats to the security of public finances. In addition, there are also solutions that illustrate how you treat the social side. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are questions concerning the limitation of the right to check-in or the reduction of the payout period from 6 to 3 months to those officers who are transferred to lower posts. That's not what you promised, and that's not what the solutions used to be. I don't want to discuss how rational these are anymore...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u367	Thank you, sir, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u368	...and this is an example of how unfair you are to this social side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u369	Thank you. I ask Mr Blaze Parda to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the procession is very fast, express. A few days ago the project came in, the print came in, yesterday we had our first reading, the committee, today the second reading, there will be a committee soon if there are amendments. Everything is so planned that the committee's meeting is due at an hour. 18. Tomorrow at hours. 9 a.m. vote, of course. If you want, you can. Or maybe I have to say, if you have to, you do. Maybe that would be more appropriate. We all have a problem with this project being a parliamentary project from the beginning, not a government project. It was huge in terms of the number of pages, the matter, and the weight of the subject was very important, heavy. And it is a pity that the state that the Polish government could not take on such a subject. Maybe he was too weak, maybe he was too small for such complicated matter that he gave it all to the Members of the Law and Justice, who had quickly settled the matter, but not quite, because it turned out that some mistakes, some shortcomings had arisen. During the process of this project there were also other projects in the Sejm. It didn't all come together out there, which is why we have to make a decision today in express mode at this meeting. Also an extraordinary Senate meeting so that this can work properly. It's a good thing you realized at this point that it wasn't later, but we have to say to ourselves: stop this legal process. Give it time. We're in no hurry, no one gets paid to write more pages or more letters. If we want people to respect us as Members and the law that we are creating, then we need to do it calmly, consult people, present it widely. In this mode each time after 4 years someone will come and turn the law completely the other way. Members often, the government, too, are not able to capture many things here, let alone citizens and people who are then at the bottom facing these huge changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u371	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration and the Act on National Tax Administration. It is necessary once again to correct the misinformation that we have received from the PIS Members that this bill is supposed to be introduced in order to make the necessary changes in relation to those laws which have been co-ordinated. Unfortunately no, this law is simply another unsuccessful attempt to improve those legislative books which were adopted on 16 November 2016 and were just introducing the National Tax Administration. I'm not going to make all these arguments anymore, because they're not going any further. How they fell out of that podium yesterday. And I'm going to focus on two elements. During the questions I raised one of these aspects. This applies to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4a, where the state, in translating this alleged conspiracy of two briefings, de facto deprives workers of their right to compensation for dismissal of their work by hiding themselves from the fact that they will receive a retirement pension. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a provision in the Labour Code which states that, in the case of specific conditions relating to the dismissal of a worker, when this exemption is made for reasons beyond his control, he is entitled to discharge. He shall also be entitled to this briefing if he is entitled to a pension. These aren't any other new regulations. As a result of the reform of the administration, you are releasing those workers who have acquired the right to retirement. They should also have the right to an exemption from work, because these are two different titles, two different legal titles. Don't make a mistake. There's no doubles here. These are two different legal titles, two different grounds for payment of checks. You're normally hurting these workers in the world. What's more, you risk being sued for labour courts and your employees win. Because it's not like that, Minister, if you change the bill, you'll change the terms of your employment contracts. These conditions continue to exist and the courts will rule on these rights on the basis of a contract of employment. The same applies to Customs officers who are then transferred to a lower post. At the moment, you are offering them compensation of the same salary for a period of 3 months, when the Customs Service Act resulted in a period of 6 months. These six months will be under the employment agreement of these officers. They'll go to court and win. Not only will you pay additionally this money, but you will also expose taxpayers to additional costs related to both entry and legal services. That will be the case, Minister, the effect. I'm asking for reason again. The modern proposal for change was simply to remove these two unfortunate rules. I therefore make these proposals. Here to see Mr Schreiber. Unfortunately, Mr President, this will not be a blow to the VAT mafia, these changes will be a blow to the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u373	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on government billings, prints no. 1297 and 1313. This procedated project introduces changes to several legal acts, not - as in the title - only to two, because in fact to seven different laws. Indeed, in two cases, these changes are due to the fact that at the same time the laws on KAS were treated with others. This is about the law on the tax on goods and services, which was passed on 1 December. The second project concerns the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws of 30 November 2016. These are the only two cases justified and resulting from the coincidence of the legislative process, so-called. adjustment. All other changes, on the other hand, must be said directly, from the enormous negligence and irregularities imposed by the party ruling on the whole course of the legislative process, on the creation of a new law as a result of the revolution in the tax administration and customs system, because it is difficult not to call it a revolution instead of a reform. The substantive analysis of the proposed changes at the meeting of the finance committee today confirms this preliminary assessment of the project submitted, as well as the assessment of this law on the National Tax Administration adopted in a hurry at the end of last year. The Buro Legislative Sejm prepared for today's committee meeting a whole package of changes to the proposed government changes. Legally, once the committee has accepted these proposed additions, the codification of provisions and legislative changes would be acceptable. However, it is difficult to agree with the merhology of some of the solutions proposed almost at the last minute, all the more so because this is a very important, very sensitive matter, because it concerns workers being fired. Let me remind you, these two first drafts of the law on KAS from the end of last year are typical of PiS personnel projects, and such were very many last year. The laws on KAS also result in the exemption from the law of 65 thousand. employees of tax offices and Customs, so they will touch many employees. As the Minister informed us today at the finance committee meeting, only in the Customs Service will 2.5 thousand be released. Officers, and many more will be civilized, demoted from their degrees or functions. It is for them that changes are made in this draft that result from the special rules on termination of employment, since the period of entitlement to remuneration collected on the previously occupied post is reduced from 6 months to 3 months. And workers who decide to retire or retire will receive only retirement pension, without dismissal. And it is in the name of social justice, as the Minister said today, that workers will suffer the consequences of the structural changes introduced by the PiS state. The representatives of the trade unions at the meeting reported that dramatic things were happening in the framework of this reform, but the customs officers were not allowed to talk about it, and this was postponed on 9 March this year. Draft changes in this area are unacceptable. The law in these particularly sensitive labour matters should be stable, not changed overnight in the situation of interruption of employment, not because of the employee's fault. In all my speeches so far concerning the laws on the Polish Academy of Sciences, I have tried to objectively assess the situation and the proposals for changes. The projects have not been properly prepared from the outset, without an analysis of the effects of the changes, without evaluations, arrangements and consultations. Yesterday I called not to go into these bad ideas because they are missing the goal of improving tax collection. And this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're serving as the primary target. At the very beginning, the Supreme Court said that the project was not fit for legislative work and this assessment is still valid. I'm sure this project isn't gonna cure the situation. The mess and chaos must go on because the PiS knows better. But we don't have to accept that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u375	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Mr Mirosław Pampuch is the first to ask a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question for you. One of the main arguments relating to the implementation of the reform of customs and fiscal services was that we are dealing with a very fragmented administration here. Would you like to approximate here the High House in connection with this reform, as long as customs and fiscal units are reduced by the fragmentation of tax administrations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u377	Thank you. And Mr Luke Schreiber, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u378	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot of unfair or even false words came out here, hence my questions. Regarding the rules of procedure, my question to the Minister: Are they not related to the statute? Do I have incorrect information that such arrangements are ongoing at local level and will they enter into force on 1 March? Next issue: Was the damage mentioned by the Member the first increase in the last year for tax administration staff in 8 years, the establishment of a minimum wage of PLN 2850, the further planned increase of up to PLN 3 000. Evil and bonuses? Is it worth recalling what competitions were like during the time of the theoretical state of PO-PSL in tax offices and how they were decided? And whether in the Polish country - there is this law on National Tax Administration - there is an increase in VAT revenue at the level of 7.8% last year while there was an increase in the VAT gap in Poland between the year [[♪ The bell ♪]] 2007 and 2015 of 9% To the level... [[Mr President, the increase was 2.8, not 7.]] ... 24% ? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u379	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you a few questions to the Minister. Is there a draft regulation on the statute of the tax administration? Are the organizational regulations of the Chamber and the tax office and the customs and treasury office for individual voivodships prepared? Has a catalogue of internal regulations been developed? Has the management control procedure been prepared? I don't hear it being ready. You want to implement a completely unprepared bill. You want to improve what was working well. And the fiscal and fiscal administration for the state budget generated considerable revenue. Nothing matters to you. What you're planning -- you've got the majority of the Seym and you're going through it, you're not listening to anybody. Why aren't you listening to customs? How many employees are you gonna fire, and how much is it gonna cost? What's the cost of these layoffs? Will these employees have everything secured? How many will be out of a job, completely out of a job? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u381	Thank you very much, Member. Since the list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Marian Banasi. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to the question that Mr Silchoń had already asked about the checks being carried out, that customs checks will not be completed if irregularities are found. Well, sir, I wanted to point out an article. 83, which regulates this issue. In the mouth. 3 it is made clear that, in the event of irregularities, customs and treasury checks are transformed into tax proceedings, and this is what the paragraph states. 3: The recast referred to in paragraph 3. 11, shall take place on the date of service of the order for conversion to which the complaint is not served. So this issue is resolved in the law and there is no slightest concern that such checks will be conducted in an infinite manner. Second thing. The question here is how we are prepared for reform, how many units will be reduced. I would like to say that out of the three previous chambers - tax, customs and UKS - there will be a single chamber, which is to say we are reducing from three to one as far as chambers are concerned. In the case of customs offices, customs and treasury offices will be set up, which will also be linked to tax control offices. As far as the tax offices are concerned, they remain unchanged for the time being, and that is why this reform can be carried out in a stable, undisturbed manner, because it is a concern. all of us, so that in this first phase there will be no interference. As regards the effectiveness of our action, I would like to point out that in 2016 there has already been a strong increase in the collection of all taxes in 2015: customs, CIT, PIT, excise duty, what our services do, and in January this year in the case of VAT, that is almost 25% increase. I would also like to point out that in December we were able to pay back VAT to businesses almost for the amount of PLN 6 billion, which you also know very well. This shows how efficient we are without fully implemented structures. As regards the question about the risk of losing work for workers, I stress what I said at the very beginning at the time of the procedure of this law in committees. We don't provide for redundancies on the basis that we just like it so much. At the moment, we've decided almost 5,000. workers are at retirement age, and if there are needs - life will show - these people will naturally retire and positions will be reduced, so that there is no slightest concern that we will make some large exemptions in this regard. However, with regard to the briefings that you were talking about, there would be a coincidence in pension payments and the termination of the employment relationship. I stressed this at the committee meeting and I would stress for the second time that it would be unfair from the point of view of society and the public and other professional groups, where there are no such solutions and situations, and we are standardizing certain things that were not adapted to normality. We want this issue actually to be resolved in a fair way and not to raise protests and reservations of other social groups, and that is why such solutions are also included in this legislative amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I've told you everything. Oh, with regard to the preparation of statutes, regulations - yes, ma'am, all regulations are practically complete, we have the statutes, regulations and there are no slightest threats that on 1 March we will not be prepared all the provisions that are needed for the functioning of our service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u383	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. As amendments to the proposed bill were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to submit a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts (Print No 1248). I ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 11 January 2017 on the submission to the Sejm of a draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The draft law is the implementation of the request made in the petition P9/23/16 submitted to the Senate on 21 March 2016. The petitioner asked for an amendment to the article. 95 of the Law of 30 August 2002. The law on proceedings before administrative courts, which states that only adults are allowed to enter the courtroom in public, apart from the parties and the persons called, and that only the persons called are allowed access to confidential meetings. The petitioner proposed adding to the article. 95 Law on proceedings before administrative courts § 2 as follows: The Court of First Instance may authorise the presence at a public hearing of a minor who has completed 13. A year old. The Senate of the Republic of Poland adopted a draft amendment to the Law on the Law of Procedure before administrative courts without limitation of the age in which a minor, with the consent of the chairman of the formation of the court, could be present at a public hearing. The draft law establishes the possibility for minors to attend the hearing without specifying the lower age limit. Such a solution ensures the freedom of decision of the President, who will take it individually, taking into account inter alia. the smooth course of the meeting or the possible demoralisation of the minor by the content presented during the meeting. In addition, the provision is intended to sanction the practice of giving parents with young children permission to enter the courtroom. It was fully justified by the Higher Chamber that the Code of Civil Procedure should be amended in the same way, since it would be unreasonable to regulate this matter differently in civil and judicial procedures. At this point, it should be added that, under the current criminal procedure, the rules do not limit the participation of minors in legal proceedings where cases are much more drastic and dramatic than in civil and judicial proceedings. High Seym! The proposed amendments lead to the implementation of one of the fundamental principles and constitutional guarantees, namely the principle of transparency of hearings, which has been guaranteed in the Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution and Article. 6 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Publicity of proceedings means that a court hearing is generally accessible to the public and, in principle, everyone has the right to enter the courtroom. The public's presence during the proceedings is intended to ensure that public scrutiny of the manner in which decisions given by the court are to be processed and enforced. Exclusion of disclosure in accordance with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution may take place because of the morality, security of the state and public order and because of the protection of the private life of the parties or other important private interest. Minors shall have the right to have an opinion. They should know how judicial authority works, which will contribute to shaping their own views. Young people are extremely active players in public life, are interested in social activities, take initiatives for the local environment. The educational value is not without significance for the proposed change. Many matters important to the community are settled in Polish courts. Allowing minors to enter the courtroom will prepare them for active participation in public life. The project was sent to the following parties for an opinion: the Minister of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the National Judicial Council, the Association of Polish Judges, the National Council of Legal Counsels, the Supreme Bar Council, the National Council of Curators and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. The Minister of Justice's opinion was positive. The Supreme Administrative Court and the National Judicial Board have not submitted comments on the draft. In his opinion, the Supreme Court pointed out that children's access to court should be restricted for their benefit. In addition, the presence of children in the courtroom undermines the seriousness of the court and may affect the quality of the explanations or testimony of the parent. According to the Supreme Court, a minor should have access to the courtroom after a certain age. The opinion identifies an example of 16 years of age. Further work on the law according to the Supreme Court should be preceded by the opinion of specialists in development psychology. I'll admit I'm a little surprised by this opinion and this radical opposition from the Supreme Court to the presence of minors in court. I don't think there are things happening in courtrooms in civil and administrative matters that are so shocking that they threaten the trauma and demoralization of minors. He also wonders that the Supreme Court challenged the preparation of Polish judges to assess the state of mental development and emotional maturity of the youth. The other requested entities did not submit their views on the project. She presented her opinion on the project to the Public Prosecutor General of the State Treasury, who did not comment, and to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child who assessed the project positively. The proposed vacathio legis of this law is 14 days. 87 senators took part in the Senate vote, 85 of which voted in favour of the project and 2 abstained. No one was against it. I ask the High Sejm to adopt the draft law proposed by the Senate in the proposed wording. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u385	Thank you, sir. Sorry, senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And first, please take the floor of Mr Arkadius Mularczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u386	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. As you have already stated, the proposal concerns the possibility, with the agreement of the President of the hearing, of the participation of a minor in a judicial session in administrative proceedings and in civil proceedings. In principle, the proposed amendment, which is the result of the petition, deserves justification. Educational values, social values, the value of informing the public, to which also minors belong, about the hearings, about what is happening in court, how these hearings are going, how the parties are treated, how the hearings are going - in my opinion this can bring positive results. I believe that there is no justification for such a drastic restriction as has been so far. My amazement is also the opinion of the Supreme Court, which shows that the participation of a minor in the trial can be a traumatic experience for her. I must say that it is incomprehensible to me how participating in the hearing as an observer can be a traumatic experience for a minor. Similarly, opinions such as the fact that the minor's participation can reconcile the seriousness of the court and hinder the conduct of the hearing are not justified at all. I do not know what it is to reconcile the seriousness of the court - if a minor obstructs the trial, then it is possible for him to apply such order as to other persons who hinder judicial proceedings. For these reasons, I believe that the project deserves recognition. There is no reason for 15-, 16-, 17- or 18-year-olds not to participate as observers or participants in court proceedings. I take the opinion of the Supreme Court as slightly curiad and I feel that in the judiciary, in the Supreme Court, there is some, I don't know, impression or feeling of a besieged claim that every parliamentary initiative, every government initiative, is an attack on the independence and independence of the judiciary. This is certainly not the case, which is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the proposed amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u387	Thank you, sir. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The subject of the proposed act is to allow minors to participate as a public at meetings of open courts dealing with administrative and civil proceedings. Participation of a minor, i.e. a person who has completed 13. a year of age would be subject to authorisation as a public. The President of the formation of the hearing shall be responsible for the conduct of the meeting, as intended by the proposed legislative act. Such a solution seems to ensure the freedom of decision of the President, who will assess individually the possibilities of the minor who would take part in such hearings, and the possible risks associated with the course of proceedings and its possible interference whether or not he considered any concerns about the demoralisation of the minor by the content of such a meeting. The minor, as we all know, is equipped with a limited legal capacity, so that he can act alone in the scope of the Civil Code in general and carry out the specified legal activities. The consent of its representatives shall be required to carry out certain legal acts. For these legal acts, minors shall also have procedural capacity. Therefore, since it is possible for a minor to participate in legal transactions as a party, it is all the more appropriate to allow such persons to participate as a public in the situations set out in the Act. The parliamentary club proposes that the project be submitted for further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u389	Thank you. And I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Chrobak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What is the state of citizens' knowledge of the law and mechanisms of action of the state, everyone sees. There's a huge deficit here that's deeper than that. This is due to the lack of law schooling lessons, which should accompany students already in the last primary school classes and gain intensity in high school. It is rare that students go to the courtroom for educational purposes to see that this is a completely different reality than in popular programs. In our view, young citizens should be given the opportunity to learn how power works. Since they can visit the centres of the legislative authority - the Sejm and the Senate or the executive - e.g. The Presidential Palace should also have access to the third power and watch closely how justice is done. In order to build the authority of the profession, whether it be a judge or a prosecutor, it is necessary to start from scratch, as in our Western neighbours. And it must be emphasized that this is about building authority, not of any corporation, but of the authority of the state authority, which is also exercised in courts. The Senacki project implements this postulate. I would also like to draw attention here to the argument that strengthens our support for the project. It is important to remember that in Polish civil law, with the age of 13, the ability to act is acquired. Thus, a 13-year-old may, taking into account certain limitations, be a party to the trial, a 17-year-old may, in turn, be charged with criminal prosecution. In all proceedings, minors may have witness status. So why not the audience? We often have citizens who are victimized by ordinary sneaks and swindlers who use their still low legal awareness. It is terrifying that there are many young people among those making these applications who are not responsible for the fact that the school does not give them adequate legal knowledge. A young man has many legal agreements on a daily basis, not knowing how important it is to be aware of the law in their lives. Therefore, in line with the principle: better prevention than treatment, the system of legal education needs to be developed. In summary, however, we have here a small step that opens up opportunities for legal education for young people. Little - I emphasize - step. Several months ago, the Association of Judges Iustitia conducted an educational action for children, so-called. It's a first aid kit. Prosecutors from the Trade Union of Prosecutors and Workers of the Public Prosecutor's Office have also carried out legal education activities for young people on several occasions, teaching law in high school and middle school. It is time for such a system medicine cabinet to finally prepare the Polish state. Enough with the legal education of illiterate people. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u391	Thank you. And I ask that Mrs Barbara Dolniak speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With regard to the project presented, it must be stated that it is essential to answer the question whether the rules on the presence of minors as a public in court rooms should be shaped in the same way, regardless of the subject matter of the proceedings. The content of the project leads to the conclusion that yes. However, this position seems to raise doubts. The basis for this project was the citizens' petition to the Senate, which concerned only proceedings before administrative courts, with an indication of age. These were supposed to be people who had finished 13. A year old. The Senate amended this proposal by extending the possibility for minors to take part in proceedings before administrative courts, but also before common courts in civil matters without any lower age limit, if the chairman of the formation of the court so permits. In order to justify the petition, it was pointed out that the right to have an opinion on matters relevant to the State or the local environment, on which an observation of the hearing before an administrative court may be affected, also applies to minors. The judicial system of the administrative courts shall constitute a judicial review of the legality of the activities of the public administration. It cannot, of course, be denied that this is linked to the protection of citizens' personal rights, but the private element here is to a lesser extent than in civil matters. Given the nature of the cases before administrative courts, it can be concluded that participation in these hearings to a greater extent than in typical civil cases can be seen as part of civic education. It also appears that the educational value could be achieved on the assumption that minors are people who are approaching adulthood, who have already been prepared in civic education classes to deal with a specific case, known on the ground, relevant to the local community, and not just for a narrow circle of natural persons in dispute. Moreover, referring to civil matters, it should be pointed out that the regulation of substantive law and procedural rules are difficult, very often even for students themselves. It must also be remembered that civil or criminal proceedings often take a very long time. What will be the educational value for a young man who will come to one trial, the first or the middle? There's not gonna be any education here about court proceedings, court proceedings. There will be no possibility of acquiring knowledge e.g. on the rights of minors of parents in courtrooms by other minors, as such cases are recognised without the participation of the public. It is also unacceptable to argue in the justification of the proposal that children should be taken to trial because their parents had nothing to do with them. Ladies and gentlemen, it's okay... Even if you ignore the seriousness of the court, it doesn't matter. I will refer here to the Member from Law and Justice: How to punish a minor: by arrest or fine, Mr? Because that's the punishment for someone breaking order in the courtroom. [[Slap him, slap him.]] Mr President, you forget that we are in court in this case and that children must not be beaten. Education enabling a child to learn about his rights and principles in the functioning of the justice system should be conducted in a thoughtful manner, taking into account age-changing perceptive possibilities, established on the basis of knowledge of developmental psychology and pedagogy rather than intuitively. Therefore, the decision to extend the catalogue of persons entitled to enter the Chamber to a public hearing, in this case minors, should be preceded by a consultation of experts and an examination of the practice of applying the Article. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] provides for a period of three months before the entry into force of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] whichever is the later. which provides for such participation, as it may consequently prove that it is the rules of criminal proceedings that require correction in this respect, and not the matching of other procedures with those contained in the c.p.k. The decision to allow a minor to be present in a courtroom should be a matter for the chairman of the formation of the court, but it would be important that this decision be not discretionary but justified by educational considerations. This proposal requires discussion, therefore the Modern Commission asks us to refer it to the committee so that we can discuss it there. The point is not to deprive young people of access to the trial, but to ensure that participation in such a trial of a young man involves educational opportunities, not just curiosity and coming to the trial. Because what is the curiosity here, I apologize for the criminal proceedings at one trial or civil proceedings at one of the various trials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u393	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk. Member - in writing. In that case, Mr Ireneus will gain. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and the Law on Administrative Courts. The draft envisages an amendment to the article. 152 Code of Civil Procedure and Art. 95 Law on proceedings before administrative courts in so far as it is necessary to allow minors to participate as public at open court meetings, subject to authorisation from the chairman of the formation of the court. In the section on judicial administrative proceedings, this is the implementation of the request made in the petition of the Republic of Poland to the Senate on 21 March 2016. It is worth noting here that during this term of office of the Sejm projects are increasingly appearing to implement proposals included in petitions submitted by citizens and non-governmental organisations. This should be welcomed because it is a sign of serious treatment of the citizens of the Republic of Poland, which has a positive impact on their confidence in the work of Parliament. The Free and Solidarni Circle welcomes the submitted project. It is undoubtedly appropriate to agree with the petitioner that the participation of minors in public meetings will have educational value for them. This argument is also raised by many representatives of the legal community, among others. more widely known in public space from the media program, Judge Anna Maria Wesołowska, who often invited young people to court. In one statement, she stated, among other things, that: The courtroom is an excellent school of life, the cheapest preventive action in terms of the crime of young people. In court, young people learn from other people's mistakes. In your opinion, the presence of the public, including minors, is also beneficial for judges who are better prepared for the hearing, trying to speak in a more understandable way. Similarly, representatives of the well-known Court Watch Poland Foundation, which has been conducting the civil judicial monitoring action for years, believe. In the opinion of this foundation, contact with the court is the best form of legal education. It is also worth noting that since 1998 the provision on the participation of minors in meetings with the agreement of the chairman of the formation of the court has been in force in the criminal procedure. That's what Art talks about. 356 § 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that the President may authorise the presence of minors and persons obliged to bear arms at the trial. It seems that, since this type of regulation unreservedly operates in a criminal procedure, it is all the more appropriate for it to also appear in a civil and judicial and administrative procedure. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support the bill submitted and request that it be sent to the committees for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u395	Thank you. Only Małgorzata Płępek joined the question. Please ask me to ask you a question. One and a half minutes. [[I have a question too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The solution introduced by the amendments to the Civil Code is the exercise of the right of the minor to information. According to the draft, the authorisation of the minor to participate in the trial will be granted in the form of an order from which he will have an appeal to the judicial court. I wanted to ask you here to clarify: Who will have the opportunity to appeal to the court ruling on the authorisation of a minor to take part in the hearing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u397	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u398	During this debate, the issue of the participation of minors in criminal proceedings was raised, with reference to the article. 356 § 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I wanted to ask the Ministry's representative if the Ministry collects data on the number of minors involved in criminal proceedings. What kind of cases were they? Did this participation involve attendance at all or only at certain trials? Did the chairman refuse to participate, and if so, for what reasons and why? Was there an appeal to the court... because it was to the court, which is to the court: in the criminal court it is with the jury, and in the civil court it is to the judge of the court, which means the same judge will answer in this matter. I would like to ask: Does the Ministry of Justice have any research that will show us how this possibility is used in criminal proceedings, i.e. in proceedings that give rise to greater interest than civil proceedings? Is this even being used and to what extent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u399	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Michalak asked for the opportunity to speak. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u400	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At the outset, it should be pointed out that the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on the Procedure of Administrative Courts, which has been adopted by the High Chamber today, introduces a new quality of participation of children in public life. The source of inspiration for the project was the individual petition submitted by Tymon Radzik, a student of middle school in Zielona Góra. It concerned the possibility for minors to participate in public hearings in administrative courts. According to Art. 95 Rights of legal proceedings before administrative courts have the right to participate in a public hearing, apart from the parties and persons called upon, only adults. Thus, minors are not allowed to enter the courtroom and cannot observe the proceedings unless, of course, they are either a party or a person called by the court. The view expressed by the teenage petitioner should be shared: there are a lot of minors who are interested in social activity, civil society and the promotion of their local environment and even the whole country. Many matters relevant to the community are dealt with in administrative courts which shape the legal situation in public administration proceedings. On the other hand, I would merely mention that the Ombudsman referred in two cases to the Supreme Administrative Court cassation actions for decisions issued by the voivodship administrative courts. These cases concerned infringement of the right of the author of the petition to have access to public information. These facts point to an increasing awareness of their own subjectivity, their civic involvement, their willingness to co-create social and economic life and their active participation in public life. Let me remind you that human rights begin with the rights of a child. The right of the child is therefore among others. the right to information about how power works and the right to shape its own views. It is also part of the right to information, to have opinions and freedom of speech. I am pleased to note that today's draft amendment to the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on the Procedure of Administrative Courts does not only meet this petition, but fills the legal gap - the right of the child to participate in judicial proceedings in civil matters on the rights of the public. In view of the above, the Ombudsman supports the project in its entirety. It gives minors the right to be present in public at public hearings in respect of civil proceedings before a general court and in administrative matters decided by an administrative court. This strengthens the subjectivity of the child, enabling active participation in public life, gaining knowledge and experience in civil and administrative matters that are of interest to him. This promotes respect for the law and strengthens the sense of justice in children. The proposed change is the implementation of the child's right to information. This law shapes the development of the child, is important to meet his educational needs, his schooling obligation or his preparation for active life in civil society. It is also the exercise of the right of the child to participate, free expression of his own views and the right to be heard, which allows the minor to participate in forms of social activity such as. activities in youth councils, participation in public consultations or participation in public dialogue. In the view of the Ombudsman, the proposal rightly does not introduce an age restriction for a minor. The President of the proceedings, allowing a minor to be present at a public court hearing, will assess whether the access of the minor to the court is intended to exercise the right of the child to information and to freely formulate opinions on the action of the judicial authority and to develop his own views on whether he or she infringes the interests of the child or undermines the seriousness of the court and whether he or she can influence the quality of the explanations or testimony of the persons heard in the proceedings. It should be stressed that the proposed regulation is in line with the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the recommendations of the United Nations Children's Rights Committee of 29 October 2015. It is also compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Not only does it complete the legal regulations in force in the Polish criminal procedure for almost 50 years, but it refines them. For these reasons, the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts in the assessment of the Ombudsman deserves to be welcomed and accepted, as I also ask your Members. It is always worth creating a law that does not only have a preventive function, but also, not less important, educational. It is particularly important to create such a law for young citizens. Young people are paying close attention to the functioning of the state, and some who are good and important want to participate actively in this process. Janusz Korczak, speaking of children, pointed to the right direction, whether it was wise or not. The Polish legislator must not forget this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u401	Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u402	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In short, I am presenting a position which is not yet the official position of the government, because the arrangements are still in progress, but everything points out that, because we are a leading director, the position will be what I am privileged to present to the High House today, and it is a positive position, of course, regarding the Senate initiative. As has been said many times here, the principle resulting from the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution and the resulting Article. 9 Civil Procedure Code as well as Art. 10 The rights of proceedings before administrative courts are the transparency of court meetings, which means the availability of those meetings to the public. This principle is expressed in the Code of Civil Procedure Article. 152, first sentence, and in the Law on proceedings before administrative courts, Article. 95th sentence first. Only public hearings are available to the public, of course. All adults who are also not interested in the case are admitted to the court outside the parties and other participants of the proceedings and those who are called by the court. Taking into account the ratio legis solution resulting from Article. 152 c.p.c. and Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 95 Rights of legal proceedings before administrative courts should be followed by the concept of regulation allowing the presence of minors at the court meeting. There are no reasonable grounds to restrict minors' observation of civil or judicial proceedings, especially since many courts and many judges are already working with educational institutions, increasing the legal awareness of young people, including through visits to courts and courtrooms. That's what the Kukiz club rep was talking about today. The observation by minors of a real civil or judicial and administrative process could contribute to the realization of the image of the courts, often by media, which is far from reality. The draft correctly recycles the solution adopted on the basis of Article. 356 § 2 k.p.k., without introducing an age limit for minors who may attend open court hearings as public. It does not appear that there are arguments of a systemic and axiological nature in favour of the introduction into the c.p.c. and p.p.s.a. arrangements which would exclude the possibility of taking part in a court meeting of minors who have not completed 13. the year of age. Those who have completed 13. A year of age, they have, in fact, limited legal capacity to enter into contracts which are commonly concluded in minor current everyday life cases - Article. 20 Civil Code, and may also carry out certain procedural activities - art. 17 Civil Code, Contrario or Art. 18 § Article 2 and Article 2 However, this requirement is not necessary for the participation of a minor in a court meeting only as an observer, i.e. as an audience, and it has been mentioned several times in this Chamber. Undoubtedly, from the point of view of the good and transparency of justice, the proposals contained in the Senate project must be assessed positively. As I have already mentioned, the government's position is not formally adopted yet, but the draft position contains a positive assessment of the proposed solutions and therefore further work on printing 1248 is recommended. Thank you very much. I don't know, Mr. Marshal, if I have to answer the question, because we, as a government, are not the authors of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u403	If you feel the need, Minister, go ahead. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Of course, I can answer very briefly to Marshal Dolnyak of Modern. No, we don't do any of that kind of research, statistics. I think the question is rhetorical, because as a judge by profession, I also do this profession. As a rule, although I am now in a different role - he knows very well that in courtrooms we do not check the audience, we do not count the audience, we do not check the identity cards or other documents. It is therefore not possible to keep actual records of the one you asked for. We don't do research either. Research into those issues that you are referring to might actually be justified if the Ministry of Justice had ever made any complaint about how criminal courts use the possibility of Article. 356 k.p.k. There has never been any complaint to the Ministry of Justice over the years, and therefore there is no problem because otherwise the Ministry of Justice would have been signalled, and I am convinced that there will also not exist if we also have a criminal solution in judicial and civil proceedings. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. However, your answer raised the need for correction here. [[I literally have two sentences, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I asked because the above provision was invoked in this Chamber, indicating that there was a possibility for minors to participate in criminal proceedings, and I was therefore curious whether any information was being kept in this regard, and any information was collected to assess the educational value of the participation of minors. On the other hand, I didn't think that in criminal matters, so it's even hard for me to judge. On the other hand, it seems to me that there is no problem here to collect such information, because it is difficult for the judge not to notice that there are children in the courtroom, and then to check, because that's where it starts at all, who is in this courtroom, also in the civil or administrative process. So it's no problem to see if there's also a minor child. My question came up because I was wondering if there was a possibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] an assessment of this situation in relation to criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u405	Thank you. I hope that all the doubts have been explained in the same way. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our position on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The aim of this project is to allow minors to participate in open court meetings. In any event, the court's consent to the participation of a minor would be necessary. The draft implements the petition submitted to the Senate in March 2016. The petitioner pointed out that, in the current legal state, the President's consent to the presence of minors in the courtroom only in criminal proceedings, whereas the courts deal with a number of matters relevant to the community and observe the conduct of public hearings would have educational advantages and would prepare minors for active participation in public life. In the opinion of the draftsman, such a solution ensures the freedom of decision of the chairman of the formation of the court, who will take an individual decision, taking into account inter alia. the smooth course of the meeting or the possible demoralisation of the minor by the content presented during the meeting. It is also intended to allow parents and children with whom there is no other care to enter the courtroom when the parent takes part in the hearing, e.g. as a party or as a witness. According to the draft, the authorisation will be granted in the form of an order from which it will have recourse to the court of judgment. The provisions on the authorisation of a minor to participate in a public hearing issued outside the hearing will be open to challenge, but the chairman may revoke or amend them if the circumstances of the case change. Giving minors the right to be present, in their capacity as public, in open civil proceedings before a general court and in administrative matters decided by an administrative court, shall be fully supported by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. On the other hand, the Supreme Court, in its opinion on the project, considers that children's access to the court should be restricted for their benefit. In addition, the presence of children in the courtroom undermines the seriousness of the court and may affect the quality of the explanations or testimony of the parent. According to the Supreme Court, a minor should have access to the courtroom after a certain age (the opinion indicates an example of the age of 16 years). High Izbo! In our view, allowing minors to attend court meetings will strengthen the subjectivity of children, enabling them to participate actively in public life, to gain knowledge and experience in civil and administrative matters. It will also help to shape respect for the law and strengthen the sense of justice in children. The proposed change is the implementation of the right of the child to information, which is essential to meet the educational needs, the school obligation or the preparation of the child for an active life in civil society. With regard to the arguments of the Supreme Court, paying attention to the protection of the child's welfare, we believe that the child's well-being will be sufficiently protected by the opinion of the President, who will each issue a decision on the admission of minors to the courtroom. High Izbo, on behalf of the PSL Members' Club, I request that the project be directed to further work on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u407	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Senate's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, contained in print No. 1248, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications in order to consider. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]] Good morning again. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Code Act (Print No 1198). I will ask Mr Andrzej Maciejewski to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Print No. 1198 is a printing of an amendment to the Civil Code. In fact, this is an amendment that concerns the article. 385, an article that is closely linked to something that all political forces in the Polish Parliament are fighting for, i.e. those EU rights, the rights that we should respect. We are talking about EU rights. The law of the European Union, material law and politics clearly emphasises this, it speaks about consumer rights, because that is exactly what I want to propose to the High House on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. What do we read about the rights of the European Union's consumer, whom we are a member of and whose flag stands in this room next to the Polish one? As regards the terms of the agreements relating to the provisions of Directive 93/13, on those conditions which infringe the principles of justice. The Directive sets out a number of minimum requirements for both the conditions for concluding contracts and the consequences of applying non-compliant provisions in them. It requires that any provision of contracts concluded with consumers should be written in a clear and simple language, attention, clear and simple language, and this is fattened here, and in case of doubt as to their interpretation - that courts should apply, attention, and this is fattened, interpretation for the benefit of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, interpretation in favour of consumers in the event of any doubt. It is Union law, Directive 93/13. In addition, it introduces the principle of preventive control of contractual patterns used in trade with consumers for the presence of so-called "consumers." Abusive clauses. For our proposal concerns abusive clauses and Directive 93/13 of the European Union concerns abusive clauses, i.e. breaching the legitimate interests of those entities in the form that they are, as it were, imposed on consumers unilaterally, without negotiations. The principle of mutual trust is violated and this results in an important and unjustified imbalance of rights and obligations with a clear disadvantage for consumers. Recognizing the abusibility of a given clause causes, attention, and this is also fattened in this book, ineffective towards consumers, although the remaining provisions of the contract retain their commitment. It's European Union law. Why am I talking about this, ladies and gentlemen? Because when we look at our print, print No. 1198, and we look under our various opinions, I sometimes have doubts whether we are still in the Polish People's Republic, whether we are really and seriously a country of the European Union not in categories B, C, only A. Because from what I read in these justifications, which are attached to our printing, it turns out that we ourselves, Polish political class, Polish elites, disqualify ourselves as members of the Union, bring ourselves to the periphery. I stress this and I say it with full awareness to make it clear: all the forces here, in Parliament, which speak so much about the European Union, let them start seriously implementing the fundamental rights, the rights of consumers, those at the level of the European Union that are expected and required of us as members. Now that we look at the analysis of the Sejm Analysis Office, we read: Art. 385 The Civil Code contains an interpretation rule which, in the event of doubts arising from the application of the Article. 385 instructs the court to regard the contractual provisions contained in this catalogue as inadmissible. And let me remind you what I just read: any doubt in the law works for the consumer. And that's confirmed by the Sejm Analysis Bureau. Moreover, the Office for Sejm Analysis clearly points out that the amendment, our proposal, takes account of the case-law just set out in Directive 93/13. And clearly the Sejm Analysis Office, ladies and gentlemen, stresses and reminds, and agrees that our proposal is in line with EU law, complies with Directive 93/13 and, attention, there are no social costs, which is very important in the course of our work. Ladies and gentlemen, she speaks of abusive clauses, she mentions, as you know, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Moreover, indexed loans and loans are denominated here in the terms of the model contract considered not permitted by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. We want, through this amendment, to bring about such legal legitimacy to help courts - to help courts make difficult decisions. Because we also need to be aware that the judges have a very large thematic spread of the cases they deal with, from divorce, the theft of the bike, to loans, loans, inheritances. The essence of the proposal is to give the courts such a tool, so that things last for a short time, were finally interpreted clearly in Poland, and at the same time they did not push our compatriots, citizens, residents of Poland into unnecessary costs. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this, because, as you already know, and this opinion has already appeared in public space, President Kaczyński announced that there will not be a law dedicated to the solution of the so-called. problems, I call it: goldsmiths, and some say: franchise - pseudocredit currency, which were really derivatives. And at this point we really as political forces say: check. We say: I check, not only for the Law and Justice, but also for the Civic, Modern, PSL Platform. Why? Since we don't have the strength and political will to sit down and mend the problem over 500,000. Polish families are talking about 700,000. Polish families, and we cannot do this in a statutory, dedicated law, what stands in the way of dealing with this matter under the law of the Civil Code, which is a fundamental tool in working in court. All I'm saying is, since we're pushing citizens to court anyway, if they're gonna have to lay out a lot of money... I've heard that after this information, the barrister rates went up. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really big money. We're talking about a minimum of 10,000. zł. These are lower rates when it comes to collective actions. If we do not arm the courts, which - everyone here agrees - are experiencing a crisis, are inefficient, have problems in resolving cases, have problems technical and administrative, and decision-making, that means that someone consciously pushes citizens into even bigger problems and they will never be solved. Or let's do what Kukiz offers.15. Let's take our countrymen seriously. Let's give them a chance to prosecute law and justice in court if this House can't handle it in a man's way. Ladies and gentlemen, the Consumer Federation is in favor of a positive assessment, the UOKiK is in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, what scared me most about the analysis of documents attached under our print is a letter from the President of the National Bank of Poland. While I can understand the relationship of Leviathan, I can understand the Polish Bank Association - of course the ratings are negative, because what they could be - I do not understand the opinion of the President of the National Bank of Poland, because if someone has read it carefully, then at school such a thing is called work not on the subject. Work isn't about work, it's a job where someone confused the subject with the issue and wrote everything he knows without the substance of the problem. I'll prove it in a minute. I say this consciously before the speeches of the clubs, in order to point out to my fellow Members that if someone wants to emphasize the National Bank of Poland strongly here, there are so many flowers here, that after this reading I had doubts whether it was a letter from the President of the National Bank of Poland or a hidden lobbyist of financers and private banks. We are talking about the constitutional body, the President of the National Bank of Poland. These are examples of flowers, which, ladies and gentlemen, are covered in this letter under parliamentary printing. Well, we read that, for example, so-called. catalogues contained in Article. 385 Civil Code Act - note, it is written really - are not a black list, but are a list of grey. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a joke. If there is an art. 385 and there are clearly indicated provisions which should not be included in civil contracts, and the President is firming that this is not a black list, but it is a list of "gray," such small legal loops, it raises some doubts, what the President really writes. Let's move on. The proposed law will not render the provisions of the contract invalid by law. The proposed amendment therefore does not bring anything new to the legal situation. I would point out that the President in one place points out that this printing does not actually bring anything, but we read further that when assessing the compatibility of the project, it should be stated that the entry of the proposed changes would lead to a mass - note, s. 4, that is still the letter from the President - the conversion of the denominated, indexed credits at the rate of borrowing while maintaining the reference interest rates, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, on the one hand, you say that nothing changes here, on the other hand, the President of the National Bank of Poland speaks about some transactions. There's no word in the article about currency conversion, there's no word about currency, there's no word, there's no word, there's a pattern, there's no algorithm. From what we read here, there are heresy. I feel like somebody made a cut-paste. How to Read Chapter II More : Economic comments, it can be seen that someone from the law evaluating the President's law on the so-called. spreads exactly did cut-paste, mindlessly pasting the stupidities that are contradictory and cause the caricature to actually come out, there is ridicule to the constitutional body. We're moving on with those flowers you're pointing out to the president. According to the National Bank of Poland's assessment, the potential direct cost - and before we read, of course nothing will change - would be higher than the estimated costs associated with the implementation of presidential proposals, etc. And now, attention, again interesting questions. Cost, and I say profit. Now what? Word against word? What costs? In the title of what, if there is no word in the proposed law about the conversions, the redemptions, there is nothing other than what is in the EU Directive 93/13? This is the directive, which - by the way - by October ub. r. was additionally mistranslated. Actually, the UOKiK October 13th Ub. Finally, it published the correctly translated directive. Question: "Did you not know that Poland is a member of the European Union, that there is Directive 93/13?" Let's move on. The changes proposed in this project would potentially generate significantly higher costs and thus pose a significantly greater threat to the stability of the financial system. Now, watch out, let's move on. Let me remind you that we're still talking about the Civil Code. And the President of the National Bank of Poland turns into a one-man court and already knows that there will be great costs - as I said, there are no costs indicated here, no figures, there is no indication - and at the same time the President writes about things that have nothing to do with reality. In his speech, the President confuses indexed and denominated loans with foreign currency loans because he talks about currency conversions. Elementary economic errors, and a year bows down. The President here speaks of a fair exchange rate, of some currency prices, while the financial spokesman in the printed report - just to remind you - clearly indicates and speaks at p. 4: Loans denominated in foreign currencies are commonly referred to as currency loans in Poland. However, this is not a correct term, since the vast majority of them were never currency credits. I keep quoting the financial officer's report. The specificity of the Polish market in foreign currency loans requires clarification of concepts - and here these concepts - currency credit, foreign currency credit, value-linked credit - indexed foreign currency exchange rate. The loans granted in Poland on a large scale in the years 2005 to 2008 - attention, most importantly - were not strictly foreign loans, because in reality there was no transfer of foreign currency from the bank to the borrower. Why am I talking about this, and I'm stressing it? Exactly. Because the President not only doesn't distinguish it, he doesn't know that indexed and denominated loans aren't currency loans, but he doesn't understand that there's no such thing, and unfortunately he's lying somewhere. I repeat once again: if I read this in the letter of the Polish Bank Association, I would understand it because the Polish Bank Association, the banks finally live out of something, must watch out for the hand that feeds, but such a letter coming out of the National Bank of Poland is simply a mockery. We're reading another flower from the president's handwriting. The financial consequences of the proposed law also depend to a large extent on the level of the exchange rate - I repeat once again: the exchange rate, but I ask what the Civil Code has to do with it, where the word is not mentioned about the exchange rate - at the time of actual conversion. Ladies and gentlemen, the word "translation" sounded here, while, as I have just read in the report of the financial officer, there is nothing to override. What do you want to do, Mr. President? Goldilocks? Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about some jokes. Let's move on. As indicated earlier, in the event of the implementation of the Act, there may be pressure to weaken the gold, caused, among others, by the fact that the law is implemented. increased demand of banks for Swiss franc. Ladies and gentlemen, your hands are dropping. What Swiss franc? We are talking about indexed and denominated loans, the financial spokesman shows that this has nothing to do with the currency, and the President of the National Bank of Poland wants to buy and sell the currency. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? Is the President running a one-man exchange, or is he representing a serious state institution? I'm starting to regret voting for this gentleman as president because this is a joke. We're moving on with the flowers you're writing out to the president. In addition, the implementation of this scenario would mean - attention - a decrease in profits or losses, and consequently a decrease in capital and a decrease in the ability of banks to carry out credit shares. It should be stressed that in Poland the profits of banks are the basic source of capital creation necessary to increase the credit portfolio. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the National Bank of Poland is concerned about the condition of private banks, not about the fate of citizens who have Polish passports, while this novel of the Civil Code is worried about citizens' rights. She is not worried about the interests of a private bank, because these people did not sign a contract with the state budget, with the President of the National Bank of Poland, only with a private bank, and you are playing the spokesman, the lawyer of private banks. I ask, where does the president really get the money? Another flower. The draft law - attention, this is interesting - does not imply direct involvement of public funds. So we already know more and this confirms what BAS said about the bill that it does not involve public funds. However, it should be noted here that the implementation of this scenario would also have a negative indirect impact on public finances. This would be the result of the negative impact of the decline in bank profits. Mr. President of the National Bank of Poland is concerned about the profits of private banks that regularly pump money into their mothers abroad and have no interest in the Polish budget and Polish GDP. They don't pay taxes, and hard mortgages are billed anyway. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, Mr. President should change the business. Besides, some of them are already going from KNF to private banks. The curly door works, as you can see. We're still reading. This is another flower, which here, ladies and gentlemen, appears - these are specific comments to justify. There were, ladies and gentlemen, all calculations, serious, wise calculations, and now we are in the detailed notes. Financial data of banks from periods of significant gold depreciation vis-à-vis the Swiss franc, e.g. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that there is no evidence that the bank's profits have increased at the time. There was no increase in bank profits. And I ask: And the last year and the miraculous increase in profits, what did it come from, Mr. President of the National Bank of Poland? There was no bank tax at the time. This bank tax has been less than a year and the banks have still shown more than 20% of their profits. Then what does the President of the National Bank of Poland write about? This is due to the fact that the bank, giving credit in foreign currency - another lie, Mr. President, what credit in foreign currency, another lie - must first acquire this currency. So he's talking about currency and again he's talking about monetary operations in the financial market, while the financial spokesman is clearly saying: there was no such action, there were no such operations. Ladies and gentlemen, another flower. Banks are therefore not making any exchange rate gains. Ladies and gentlemen, what are spreads? And what are the operations, the derivatives that are played between banks? You mean what? The bank's a charity? Mr. President of the National Bank of Poland, I understand that the bank lives with 500+. The main source of their income from these foreign exchange loans - again currency loans are falling, and we are still talking about printing the Civil Code novels, another lie - but there are differences between the interest rate on foreign exchange loans - of course again currency loans - granted to customers and commitments made for their financing and so-called. currency spreads. For the mechanism described above, it is irrelevant that the currencies of the housing loan were often paid and paid in zlotys. The miracle, Mr. President of the National Bank of Poland, became a spokesperson for the banks, became a lawyer and may be boldly asked for a commission after this letter, because unfortunately this opinion is fatal. Under such an opinion, the President has no right to sign himself, the more that - what I said at the beginning - this opinion is not on the subject. This opinion does not concern the novel of the Civil Code. This opinion may have been about the President's proposal, maybe about spreads, maybe even about the PO and Kukiz project regarding the so-called. pseudofranchised loans, but this opinion has nothing to do with what's in print no. 1198. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there's a certain hour of truth ahead of us. Because if the High Chamber - what I have already said - is not willing to dedicate the law to the environment of the victims, then let citizens exercise the rights, the rights of the constitution. I'll just remind you that art. 76 of the Constitution makes it clear that consumer protection is a constitutional value. Moreover, our amendment, our printing has one important thing - this is an interpretation rule. It's not education, it's an interpretation that's supposed to help the judge make a decision without undue delay, which will make people believe in Poland. Let people, Poles believe in Poland, in the sense of fighting for justice, for Polish laws and in the fact that we do not have Poland A, B and C, but we have one Poland. In pointing out, I ask and appeal to all clubs to lean on this printing and allow citizens in courts to pursue their rights. One more important argument is raised in the proposed law, such that the novel relates to the period when these loans were made. I hear the words: the law doesn't work backwards. I just remind you that in the Polish Constitution, and this was confirmed by the tribunal, there are so-called. exceptional events requiring detailed justification. If the case concerns 700,000. Polish families, I think this is an extraordinary event. This is, please, in line with the case law of the Constitutional Court, which refers to a derogation from the principle of non-retroactivity. This is acceptable. Here is a quote: In exceptional circumstances, it is even possible to provide for certain derogations from the lex retro non agit rules if this is justified by the need to implement another constitutional principle, and at the same time it is not possible to implement this principle without retroactive action of the law. The admissibility of a derogation from these constitutional rules depends on the importance of the constitutional values which the law under examination is intended to protect. This is the judgment of 7 February 2001. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I talking about this? The fact that Polish law did not work at the right time is not the fault of the citizens. The fact that Polish courts do not work and this law is not enforced is not the fault of citizens. The fact that there was no political will in the Polish Parliament to solve this problem is not the fault of the citizens. The fact that Directive 93/13 has not been consistently guarded as a sanctity in consumer rights is not the fault of citizens. This is a failure of the Polish state. As Members, we have an opportunity to rehabilitate. We are talking about a kind of rehabilitation, restoring what has been corrupted by us here in this House. Because if these rules were guarded, if the KNF had acted properly, if the National Bank of Poland had acted properly, and EU law had been taken seriously rather than randomly, there would have been no problem or such discussion today and no one would have been sitting here and tired at this hour. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do everything we can to correct this mistake. I think that's what we've all grown up to. I believe in this and I ask all clubs to support our printing, and at the same time I ask and will ask for a timely legislative path to arm the courts with a tool to fight for law and justice for Polish citizens without undue delay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u409	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Waldemar Buda to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u410	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present a position regarding the draft law amending the Civil Code Act, print no. 1198. The proposal concerns the amendment of the Article. 385 Civil Code, which contains a catalogue of contractual clauses which, in the event of doubt, are deemed to be prohibited contractual provisions. The proposal concerns the extension of the catalogue to include records on prohibited indexing and value-added clauses in credit agreements. The intention pursued by the designer is, at least, based on the justification, only to speed up judicial proceedings. That is how it is stated in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another attempt to help all those who have been in credit problems with the provision of indexed or denominated loans, but it must also be borne in mind that this will certainly not solve the whole problem. That is, if we are talking about solving the problem of speeding up judicial procedures and proceedings, we need to consider, first of all, whether these proceedings are actually long, prolonged and whether this solution will actually speed up this particular provision. Today we have such a situation that many customers are referring to the courts in order to recognise the provisions and these clauses, just like those indicated in your project, to be prohibited and at the same time to set new terms of the credit agreement. The problem in court proceedings is therefore two things: firstly, to establish that these clauses are not allowed and, secondly, to establish new terms and conditions for contracts which without those clauses That's it. That's it. That's it. The case law so far shows that it is not a problem of individual assessment of cases and elimination of prohibited clauses, because this can be done, firstly, on the basis of the register of the black one referred to by the Member, that is, the register of the President of the OOKiK, and secondly, on an individual basis, that even without any register, the court has the power to consider the clause to be unlawful and unlawful. On the other hand, the problem arises at the second stage, at the time when it is necessary to determine what is to be put into place in place of those provisions which would be eliminated from the contract between the bank and the client. In this case, there are many doubts, and this project unfortunately does not answer this question, because it concerns this first element, which is precisely the recognition of the clause as inadmissible. This would certainly be faster and more mechanical, but the second stage remains, which would be equally difficult to resolve. The Law and Justice Club is in favour of proceding this project, so as to refine it, rethink it, and above all consolidate it with all those projects that we already have complex and which the subcommittee is developing. In addition, it should be noted that this law could only apply to past situations, i.e. all those contracts already concluded, because not further than yesterday we had a second reading of the mortgage credit law and there are such records that eliminate completely loans that have indexing or denomination clauses. So the question is, should the law be introduced in such a way that only those old issues are concerned? And besides, can these rules actually help here? Thirdly, from the point of view of retroactivity, as the Member has also pointed out, is this simply possible today? Of course, we know the caselaw, which indicates that in exceptional circumstances retroactivity is possible, but in any case it requires individual analysis. And such an examination will probably be subjected to this law after it has been introduced. So we respect this good step and show another element, another mechanism that could help solve the problems of customers who today have them with indexed or denominated credits, but we would like to look at this more widely and including earlier complex projects, therefore [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law and justice club indicates the need for further work in the committee on the draft submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u412	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u413	Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Members' Club, I have the honour to present my position on the proposed act, amending the Civil Code Act. As regards the system of contract law and its compatibility or not with European Union law, unlike the Member who presented the draft on behalf of the Group of Members, I have a slightly different view, because the issue of contract control is dealt with in our system on the level of incorporation, transparency of content, i.e. in this respect we seem to have our right to comply with EU law. And it is hardly a matter of certain unsatisfiedness from the point of view of the imperfections of our law. The problem you're talking about lies in something completely different. It would be appropriate to refer to 1 October 1990 and to the Civil Code of 28 July 1990, which was introduced into the Civil Code, which you mentioned, the provision of the article. 358 § 2. That's the problem. In a commentary to this law, already deceased Prof. Adam Szpunar wrote: There is no better mechanism in the world to drive inflation than to move away from the principle of nominality. That's the problem. Looking for such a bypass to save the situation today certainly deserves simply recognition, only that this project we are talking about is probably not going to achieve the goal, the result that you are talking about in such a worthy way. The proposed act extends the catalogue of 23 clauses currently in force. They are referred to in the literature as black, unlike the previous speaker mentioned, a register of grey clauses of not allowed, of which about 7 thousand. is entered in the register of clauses maintained by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. In the design of the projectors, the introduction of these two additional clauses, which would be subject to credit agreements or loans indexed or denominated in foreign currency, would result in the possibility of relying on these provisions, to those clauses not allowed in the fight against the bank which led to the conclusion of such agreements. But it should be noted that the amended provision, I am talking about the article. 358, appeared as a result of implementing the 1993 Directive on unfair terms in consumer contracts into our law. The 23 clauses currently set out in the Civil Code are exemplary, only exemplary, and are intended to meet the needs of consumer education, because one of the fundamental European consumer rights was to dedicate a certain right to an educated consumer. And those clauses were supposed to educate the consumer. It is proof that their function does not go beyond this value that Sweden has implemented this 1993 directive. Sweden has implemented without indicating an example catalogue of non-authorised clauses and has taken action against Sweden in relation to such implementation. And the determination and justification of this situation indicated that each national state which implements the Unfair Clauses Directive must formulate such a catalogue of exemplary clauses. And different systems do it in different countries. Therefore, it seems that the extension of the catalogue of clauses prohibited by the two clauses mentioned above will not result in this effect being achieved, which you are talking about. At the same time, I have another problem when it comes to justification itself. Please note that in the explanatory memorandum we are talking about two cases. It shall be indicated that the clause does not apply where it relates to contracts subject only to sale. We are also talking about the fact that we refer to the function of interest, that in the case of such loans and loans, these interest rates serve both as remuneration for the use of other people's capital and as a valorisation function. Of course, interest can still perform a number of additional functions. But there is a question about the effectiveness of defending such a thesis, that in this case they have both a function. It seems that the achievements of Judaism, case law, as well as the legal provisions do not allow for such a far-reaching thesis and that this thesis is difficult to defend. I still have doubts about this article. 2. I would not like to discuss the action of the law backwards here, because one might wonder how to do it. As far as extraordinary issues are concerned, such events are not just a constitution, but [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Civil Code in Art. 357 refers to these extraordinary events. We already have, in the light of the case law, the possibility of identifying what such an extraordinary event is. But the problem is that if we look at the assessment of prohibited clauses, it is done by the prism of the article. 358 § 1....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u415	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u416	There are three reasons. And please pay attention to the moment when you assess those events that justify making a plea of unlawful character. And so we do not have to discuss at this point whether the law is working backwards or not, although in the case of contract law it is quite a characteristic feature. We, through other considerations in other regulations, cannot achieve the purpose you are talking about. Thank you very much. So I think you can do this project...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u417	Thank you very much. I'm gonna have to ask you, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u418	...to move forward with the legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u419	... Andrzej Maciejewski, a Kukiz club15, would like to speak on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u420	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Print No 1198 concerns the new Article. 385 Civil Code. In fact, we are talking about a return to implementation with an extension of elements that have not been included in this first implementation. I agree with my previous speakers: there was an implementation in Poland, only in this implementation we did not comply with Directive 93/13. And let me just remind you: this Directive 93/13, after the correct translation, after the publication of the UOKiK on its pages in October 2016, was clearly underlined. I read in point 1: Without prejudice to the provisions of Article. 7, the unfair nature of the terms of the contract shall be determined taking into account the type of goods or services to which the contract relates and with reference at the time of conclusion of the contract to any circumstances relating to the conclusion of the contract and to the other terms of that contract or other contract on which it is dependent. This correction should make it easier for consumers to make claims in courts and to resist the arguments of traders in regard to the recognition of the contract's provisions as abusive. Again, the abusive phrase bows down. The need for correction arises from the fact that some courts interpreted differently the provisions of the Civil Code, in which Article. 385 The Civil Code correctly, as if in accordance with the will of the European legislator, was implemented Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Directive. This applies in particular to consumer claims arising from mortgage agreements indexed or denominated in the Swiss franc, in which the courts tried to justify - and that is exactly what I said and what the club indicates - the abusive nature of the provisions on the calculation of the value of the credit or individual instalments, except that consumers did not demonstrate that the bank had freely or incorrectly calculated those values during the performance of the contract. The consumer - please, this is another element - does not need to prove that the contract is not implemented correctly to demonstrate that the conditions set out in Article are met. 385 Civil Code. The unlawful nature of the contractual clause must be assessed taking into account the circumstances at the time of conclusion of the contract and the manner in which the trader has performed the contract on the basis of the contested contractual provision remains irrelevant to the statement of abusibility. The clause is abusive by law when it is placed in a model rather than when it is confirmed by the competent authority. This corrigendum - and this is the pointa - does not change the legal status of Directive 93/13 and should be applied - note - to all matters which include the abovementioned. a directive, even - and this is important - if the contract was concluded with the trader before publication of the correction. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say one thing: at the Kukiz club15 we want to take the problem seriously and we want to do it according to the law, not according to the will, not according to the law of the street, but according to the law of the Union whose flag stands in the Polish parliament. Therefore, as a club, we will support the work on this novel, and at the same time we will appeal and we will ask your marshal, firstly, to direct this work to a fast path and at the same time not to any finance committee, but to a committee related to the permanent codification subcommittee for civil code matters, because this is a change in the Civil Code and not in financial matters. Thank you very much and I ask for the support of all clubs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u421	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u422	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Code Act, print no. 1198. Before I go to my position on the proposed amendments, let me quote a quote: Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is concerned about the recommendations of the Financial Supervision Commission, so-called. Recommendation S introducing restrictions on access to foreign exchange loans. And further in the position of the PiS we read: The basic justification of the Financial Supervision Commission for the recommendation S, referring to the huge risks associated primarily with sudden currency declines, the possibility of a significant increase in interest rates through foreign central banks, and the possible significant decrease in the value of the zloty, is not confirmed in the data. When did this happen? 1 July 2006 So if the PiS then in power did not block the recommendation of S or mislead hundreds of thousands of citizens, there would be no problem so called. François. During the presidential election, and then after the election, the candidate first and then President Andrzej Duda assured that it is not true that there is no money in the budget to compensate for the cost of credit conversion at the time of borrowing and the draft law will be submitted within 3 months after taking office. It's been two years. Mr. President, where is this bill? Why did you cheat hundreds of thousands of Polish families so cynically? This was also followed by the PiS in the election campaign to Parliament in 2015, again lying to voters to solve the problem of franc credits. We've already had a year and a half of PiS rule. Where are those laws? Instead, Mr Kaczyński mocks the French by sending them to court. In order to resolve this problem on a legal basis, a comprehensive law is needed in which the legitimate demands of the franchise will be taken into account, which also does not destabilize the Polish banking system. And this kind of law can and should be presented by the government. The proposed amendment concerns Article. 385. It is the addition of two points, points 24 and 25, which extend the catalogue of prohibited contractual provisions, firstly, to provisions specifying in foreign currency a loan or a loan that is paid in Polish currency, and provisions indexing or valuerating the exchange rate of foreign currency a loan or a loan defined and paid in Polish currency. In this respect, the opinion of the National Judicial Council that the proposed solutions are contrary to Article should be divided. 385 § 1 of the Civil Code because only contractual provisions which have not been individually established with consumers and do not concern provisions laying down the main contractual rules which have been formulated unambiguously may be regarded as prohibited. It should also be pointed out that at yesterday's meeting of the High House there was a mortgage credit law procedure and supervision of intermediaries and mortgage agents, print No 1287, which will prohibit the granting of credits indexed or denominated in foreign currency to consumers who do not receive income in foreign currency or who do not have larger assets in that currency. The introduction of proposed amendments to the Civil Code would only have a historical dimension without any influence on credit agreements in the future, but the Modern Posel Club, appreciating the importance of the problem associated with these loans, proposes that the bill be passed to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u423	Thank you very much. And Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Code Act, print no. 1198. This project is a prognosis of irregularities that have occurred in our country in relation to the so-called. franc credits that have never been paid or paid in Swiss franc and have been converted into this currency and have caused unimaginable problems for borrowers. The draft proposes to amend the article. 385 Civil Code and consists in extending the statutory catalogue of contractual provisions, the probability of which is very high. And such prohibited provisions shall be deemed to be according to the draft order, first, specifying in the foreign currency a loan or loan which has been paid in Polish currency, and secondly, indexing or value-setting foreign currency a loan or loan specified and paid in Polish currency. It shall be possible for the court to consider the contractual order inadmissible only in the case of a cumulative fulfilment of the two conditions laid down in Article. 385 Civil Code, i.e. the development of consumer rights and obligations in a manner contrary to good practices and gross infringement of his interests. Therefore, the extension of the catalogue by these two provisions proposed in this proposal is, in our view, fully justified. In the case of loans, e.g. so-called. Franc loans, the obligations of the bank's customers were accepted in a manner contrary to good practices, as well as a gross violation of the interests of those borrowers. Referring to the proposal in question to European Union law, it should be referred to Council Directive 93/13/EEC on unfair terms in consumer contracts. Art. 3 of this directive was implemented in the Polish law in precisely Article. 385 Civil Code. According to the designers, the amendments proposed in the current draft are not included in the catalogue of provisions contained in the Directive, but this is not an obstacle to the extension of this catalogue in Polish law, as Member States may adopt stricter legislation in order to ensure a higher degree of consumer protection. In fact, the adoption of the proposed law will only result in the obligation for the Council of Ministers to provide information on this regulation to the European Union. There is still a response to the article. 2 of the project, which states that the provisions introduced also apply to contracts concluded before the date of entry into force of the act and therefore the law has been applied retroactively. This principle of non-retroactivity, according to the Constitutional Court, is the basis of the legal order, but in exceptional circumstances this is acceptable. For this project, the protection of consumer rights is a constitutional value as well as one of the fundamental principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Therefore, my fellow Members, we consider the project to be reasonable, fully justified, eliminating, in part, the unfair behaviour of banks towards borrowers. Our club is in favour of handing over the project for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u425	Thank you very much, Member. Two people entered on the list of people who wanted to ask a question. Would any of you like to sign up? I'm closing the list. In this connection, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, begins. One minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to this law, I have no questions for the Members of the applicants, but rather for the rulers. After Thursday 15 January 2015, when the Swiss franc's exchange rate was freed against the euro, the franc was relatively strengthened. The increase in quotations coincided with the elections in Poland and thus with many promises. The presidential candidate Mr Andrzej Duda then promised the French people that the loan conversion project would be ready within three months of his taking up his post. There was supposed to be help, even a draft of President Duda's bill was delayed, which suggested such help. So? Nothing. Until now, the French have been deprived of this assistance. Now from President Kaczyński his Franciscan voters [[♪ The bell ♪]] They hear they should take matters into their own hands and start fighting in court. Why? Because the solutions that the government would have put in place could have affected the banking system. Helping the franchise was just a slogan for the election of the PiS, for which the voters simply fell for it. Aren't you ashamed to lie to Poles like that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u427	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15, will ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland is such an interesting country that we have a legislature mixed with enforcement, and in fact what is established, the law which is established in Poland depends largely on the good will of the government. Therefore, since the Law and Justice, in general, decided that the franchise had to solve the issue of the loans that they had been granted, I would say, Minister, a short ball from my side: If you leave the franchise alone in the battle square, would you at least give them a tool so that they can carry out judicial proceedings effectively and quickly? As far as I know, about 20 or even 30 grand. The lawsuit is prepped. At this point, if you don't want to help the franchise, it's okay, I can understand it, but maybe you can at least help the judges who are gonna be stuck in these cases because, as I say, 20 or 30 grand. cases waiting to be brought to the Polish courts [[♪ The bell ♪]] and this can cause paralysis of the Polish judicial system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u429	Thank you very much. Both questions are addressed to the Ministry of Finance. On behalf of the Minister, Mr Leszek Skiba will answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very good opportunity to talk about the loans mentioned in the bill. There are many actions that, as we can see, are now being undertaken by the Financial Stability Committee. Some of the solutions are implemented in the Ministry of Finance. There's a spread bill prepared by your president. So we have a series of actions that are going to solve the loan issue referred to in the law. Among other things, the project of the Kukiz club is part of this concern for the issues of loans referred to in the Act15. Indeed, it is worthwhile to examine these issues. Mr Grabowski asked about legal instruments. Indeed, it is worth analysing to what extent this draft law will solve the problem of the loans referred to therein, to what extent this proposed solution will be effective in terms of a number of problems, such as those mentioned by Mr Buda. From this point of view, actually work on this project in the subcommittee... It is particularly worth noting that there is an extraordinary subcommittee on loans nominated or indexed in foreign currency. This is where work is being done on a number of solutions. It is worth noting that both these solutions are important in order to protect the interests of citizens who have taken loans in indexed or denominated currencies, as well as this perspective of financial stability is important and worth looking at this perspective. I would allow myself here, alongside those issues mentioned in the question, to draw attention to one thing that the applicant has spoken about. In fact, I have the impression that some of the words concerning the President of the National Bank of Poland were deeply unfounded because of the fact that the involvement of the National Bank of Poland in solving the problem of loans referred to in this draft law is very serious. It is the National Bank of Poland that has been strongly involved in the work of the Financial Stability Committee in order to ensure that the credit problems mentioned in the draft law are resolved. The President of the National Bank of Poland has repeatedly paid attention to this. In fact, this perspective of an ordinary citizen, an ordinary borrower, who is today exposed to stress, uncertainty about the future, connected with the fact that the foreign currency rate actually affects its future, is deeply taken into account in the context of a broad analysis of the problems of loans nominated or indexed in foreign currency. And from this point of view, the accusation of unilaterality, the misunderstanding of the President of the National Bank of Poland seems to me to be deeply unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u431	Thank you very much. I see the applicant's representative wants to complete his speech and address, I understand, questions, right? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u432	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Maybe to all the clubs first. Firstly, as an applicant, I thank all the clubs very much, because at this point in time it is actually the Sejm project. All the clubs said there was something going on and it was worth it for us to lean on it. I thank all the clubs for their support. Speaking of Mr Leszek Skiba's statement from a moment ago, I do not know if you were late, but I would love to share and print no. 1198, and analyze this printing by the National Bank of Poland. It's a job. Not about that. It's got nothing to do with the print. It is, yes, with 729 printing, presidential printing, Platform printing, calculation, calculation, mixing of terms, conversion, something that has absolutely nothing to do with this printing. Print No 1198 is a printing that goes completely in a different direction towards the Civil Code. Here's what I'm gonna say. As an applicant, please, I would not like this printing to be mixed with the prints that are stuck in the subcommittee, because today there is a problem of billions spread, in this subcommittee there are billions, 50 billion, 180 billion. And actually today is a game of counting how many really billions on a possible so-called. The pseudo-transfer would lose a bank or a private bank, or a dead end, we don't solve the problem. That is why I, as a Member, am still requesting that this should not be directed to this narrow path, which is already in the Special Committee for so-called cases today. set up around-franchise, because we are talking about the amendment of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u433	Mr, but it won't be for this committee, not for this subcommittee, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u434	I see, that's why I'm asking you here about the Vice Minister's question...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u435	But that's not the sub-committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u436	Good. Just a little more punch line. I've got a big favor to ask all the clubs. I understand that the accounts of the damage between you are large, but I would like real solidarity to be on this serious subject. I'm no longer interested in private party tours today, who and when in the campaign said something. Those people up there don't care, they don't really care. These people came because they believed in the Polish state. Please, and here's my hot appeal at the end, let's do it together without going away and personal tours. Thank you very much for your support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u437	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he directs the parliamentary bill amending the Civil Code Act, contained in print No. 1198, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws (Print No 1197). I ask Mr Paweł Szramka to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u438	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of my speech is the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. Why would you even think about changing those rules? Well, I am a driver who travels several thousand kilometers a month, just as most of your fellow Members probably do. It is a natural activity, of which we do not think about it on a daily basis. However, radically our approach changes at a time when an unexpected situation occurs, such as a collision, in which there is no certainty as to who is the perpetrator of the event. With similar problems and with many other problems, drivers from all over Poland applied to the Law Association on the Road, which is the main author of the proposed law, headed by the President of Artur Mezglewski. This project provides a number of traffic-related issues. At present, objective truth does not apply in court. Of course, this does not apply to all judges, but this is how the judiciary behaves in its mass. In many ways, nothing has changed since the commune. Of course, the rules have changed, but practice has not changed. What does that mean? This means that a commanding officer decides who to refer to for punishment and who not to direct him against. It's a bullshit court, and 90% of the cases are court-martialed by an officer. Of course, there are plenty of drivers of croissants who don't plead guilty to the principle, but there are also a whole bunch of wrongly wronged people. The Act consists of two segments: administrative and criminal. The administrative segment, more specifically, concerns traffic control. At present, there is no definition of control, conditions, grounds, and above all, no controlled rights. We propose to civilise these issues without taking away any of the powers of the police. The penalty segment concerns the fact that we introduce the principle of material evidence in infringements cases without effect, i.e. That the testimony of the officer who was in charge couldn't be evidence in the case. It can be a recorded measurement or even a simple video recording. The introduction of such a rule will relieve the courts. Most cases disappear from the courts, they don't get to them at all. If the police don't have proof, they won't file a case in court, and on the other hand, the citizen won't go to court when there's obvious evidence of his guilt. Not only do we relieve the courts, but also the police. It takes a month to prepare an application for punishment, and after our bill it will take 15 minutes. We're gonna re-bureaucratize the police. At the moment, almost all road traffic offences are referred to a pre-emptive procedure. This is a waste of time, because if the citizen has not accepted the mandate, he will also disagree with the court order, which means three months of loss. The Act also provides a simple enforcement of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2016. In colloquially speaking, we remove the administrative mode of driving licenses for driving more than 50 km/h, and we transfer them to criminal law. The driving ban for up to 3 months will be ruled by a court, not by an old lady, not immediately, but in the event of a court determination. We are introducing a new criminal measure in the form of stopping a driver's license, but it will be decided by the court. The guilty will not escape punishment, but he will have the opportunity to fight for his rights in a fair trial. We relieve the police of obligations they shouldn't be burdened with. Instead of wandering the courts, the police will eventually have time to carry out their main tasks. In addition, the Law of 20 June 1997 on Road Traffic makes the following amendments. In the absence of documents presented by the manager, the competent authority shall verify the powers of the manager in the electronic system, possibly in the nearest police unit. The driver of a vehicle who does not show evidence of entitlement to drive shall comply with the instructions of the competent authority to determine the above. allowances, in particular expect the results of the verification, regardless of the duration of the verification operation, and in the case of e.g. the system failure is required to go to the nearest police unit in order to determine the above. allowances. We are introducing a temporary withdrawal of the vehicle - a change that many Poles are waiting for. It shall be carried out at the request of the owner of the vehicle or the body entrusted with the vehicle in accordance with Article. Article 75 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, the governor competent due to the location of the last registration of the vehicle, issuing a decision on the temporary withdrawal of the vehicle. The vehicle may be temporarily withdrawn from service for the period indicated in the application by the owner of the vehicle or the operator entrusted with the vehicle and this period may be extended or shortened by a decision of the competent authority. Of course, the owner of the vehicle or the entity entrusted with the vehicle is obliged to ensure that the vehicle is withdrawn from traffic outside the public road, residential area and traffic zone. The Minister responsible for Transport shall determine, by means of a regulation, the mode and conditions of temporary withdrawal of the vehicle, the amount of the charges depending on the period of withdrawal from traffic not higher than PLN 150 for the decision to temporarily withdraw the vehicle in this respect, having regard to the need to prevent the use of vehicles temporarily withdrawn from traffic and the costs incurred by public administrations. In addition, the concept of routine control will disappear after the law has been implemented. The grounds for stopping a road inspection shall be the reasonable suspicion that a traffic offence has been committed and the reasonable suspicion that participation in the traffic of a particular driver or vehicle poses a risk to other traffic participants. We end with a situation where a good driver moving in a fully functioning car according to traffic regulations from the vending machine becomes a potential suspect for police patrol. The Act clearly sets out the duties and rights of the officer and the person controlled. The course of traffic control shall be recorded using the image recording device and sound. To the article. 130 is added to the paragraph. 1b as follows: Only those formal infringements which have been registered by the recording device, the measuring and checking instrument or other equipment recording the image and sound shall be entered in the records. Here we enter into the main assumption of the law - personal cameras for police officers. Recorded footage is evidence. What a police officer sees is also registered by the device. This allows us radically to avoid any irregularities during the inspection. It disappears almost 80% cases of discourse or improper conduct, both by the police officer carrying out the inspection and by the manager. We also propose that the Act of 5 January 2011 on driving vehicles should introduce the following amendment. To the article. Paragraph 98 of the Act is added. 5a as follows: A driver who has not received any penalty points in a given calendar year shall receive a bonus in the form of 5 positive points as from 1 January of the following year. This idea was supposed to be a kind of distinction for drivers who drive very well and do not get any tickets. This is the record that in turn aroused the most controversy, so we put it under discussion, and if it is the will of the majority, we will not insist on leaving it for strength. The Act of 24 August 2001 introduces the Code of Conduct for Offences, inter alia. Amendment to Article 7, which reads: The police and other authorities in criminal proceedings shall carry out the orders of the court and shall carry out investigations within the limits set out in the Act. In relation to the tasks performed by police officers who act as public prosecutor, the provisions on service liability shall not apply. A very important article is also inserted. The following paragraph 3 shall be added: In court proceedings, participation in proceedings may be declared by a social organisation. That hasn't happened yet. Art. 54 § 7 shall be replaced by the following: "The hearing of the person referred to in paragraph 6 shall be refused if the person concerned signs a declaration that he does not wish to be heard. That person shall be instructed to inform the investigating authority of any change in his/her place of residence or stay lasting more than 7 days. The person may send explanations to the competent authority within 7 days of the withdrawal from the hearing, as to which he should be instructed. The withdrawal from the hearing and the instruction shall be documented by an official note. Then we amend the rule in Article. § 97 § 2: The perpetrator of the offence may refuse to accept a criminal mandate. It may also request that its decision on the adoption of a criminal mandate be postponed within 7 days. You'll ask why. So that the citizen may have time to consider a possible consultation with the legal counsel. Often confused drivers, when they hear from an officer the word "mandat" or to the court, prefer to accept a mandate for peace of mind. In conclusion, as I mentioned at the beginning, this is a project written by citizens for citizens. We are sure that many provisions of the Act will meet with your support, but there will certainly be one that needs to be discussed. That's what we're counting on. I encourage all of us to work together on this project in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u439	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Buczek. You're welcome. Excuse me, Mr Buczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u440	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the presentation of the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the law on road traffic notified by the club Kukiz15. The designers of the proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Law consider it a priority to make it difficult for police officers to operate in the field of road safety, but also to eliminate drunk drivers and road pirates from traffic. In the explanatory memorandum, they criticize police officers and attribute evil intentions to them. They treat cops like potential crooks, incompetent people, unable to operate equipment, uneducated, and even provocative traffic events. The project devotes a great deal of attention to changing the procedures for carrying out road inspections. The introduction of these changes could lead to a drastic violation of road traffic rules in many cases being punishable. There are many contradictions, inconsistencies and unrealistic requirements in the bill. A few examples. The Kukiz Club proposes that the police should not be able, as at present, to carry out routine road inspections. At the same time, it is required to eliminate tired, sleepless and nervous drivers from the movement. How do we determine these phenomena without stopping for routine control? The police would have the right to retain a driver's license that threatens the safety of others. On the road, but this driver will be able to continue driving without a driver's license. Not much, he'll be able to do it for a long time until the court takes away his authority. At the same time, a policeman will have the right to prevent further driving only due to technical defects of the vehicle, even without endangering safety, but only threatening traffic order. Projectors propose a non-living requirement to register with a camera during inspections actually always and all road events. Then the police would practically lose the opportunity to punish for traffic offences. This is a very strict requirement. Just a small loophole, inaccuracies in the recording, and drivers who break the rules will avoid responsibility. Introduction of the so-called negative points, i.e. the principles of five points per year in case of non-punishment for traffic violations, may lead to, for example, After 5 years of driving break - stay abroad or even in prison - the driver will receive a bonus of 25 points. With the current limit of 24 points resulting in sanctions, there could be practically multiple violations of the rules. The proposed changes must be considered pointless and pointless, because the current law gives the possibility to record, record, control and use these materials in the appeal process. Controlled and punished drivers shall have the right to access relevant documentation. The order to record everything is unrealistic and dead. Besides, the police are gradually supplying modern equipment and making such a registration. The data provided in the explanatory memorandum to the bill are separate from reality. Across the country, there are 2 000 road controls. Up to three and a half thousand. Police officers, and also officers of the Road Transport Inspection, Border Guard and Military Police, while designers are talking about 1 000. Officers and 500 police cars. It is certainly necessary to simplify judicial procedures and speed up proceedings, but not by this method. The bill doesn't bring anything important here. It's just a multiplication of being beyond need. Of course, the powers of the police to effectively eliminate drunk drivers from traffic need to be extended. Unfortunately, this project does not solve this problem. A minor matter is the temporary registration of a vehicle up to 3.5 t. Unfortunately, there is a very negative opinion of the Association of Car Recycling Forums due to the extension of the grey zone of dismantling old cars. High Izbo! In conclusion, the bill does not serve [[♪ The bell ♪]] improving road safety or addressing significant problems in this area, and it is not intended to continue to investigate this project. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that the law be rejected in its entirety at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u441	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform, please take the floor of Mr Caesar Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u442	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we start a debate on a law that is probably most often amended in our Seym, over the Law on Road Traffic, we need to know what we are dealing with. I printed it, this is what the text of the Road Traffic Law Act in the version of the uniform text of December ub looks like yesterday. R., Marshal of the Sejm issued a notice. The first 19 pages are footnotes to this law. To understand its contents, you also need to get through these footnotes. The debate on the Road Traffic Law is an important debate and we should not be too hasty to interrupt it. Therefore, in advance of my final request, I appeal to the Law and Justice Club to verify his position. Let's discuss these proposals. They are, of course, mostly controversial; they are largely unacceptable. The proposal for a law was submitted by the applicants with the text of the self-correction. The autorepair was supposed to lighten the text of the project a little bit, but there was also a mistake there, the printer's chopstick caused that some of the proposals were repeated several times. Important opinions were also attached to the project. The Supreme Court's opinion - mostly critical when it comes to matters relating to the procedure that you also want to change, but in part paying attention to solutions worth discussing. There is a critical opinion of the Polish Insurance Association, it concerns this temporary registration of the vehicle. I think it is important to agree with those opinions which point to the possibility of abuse of these rules and thus increase the danger on Polish roads. What is the road code, or Traffic Law, for? That we should travel safely on Polish roads, all users of these roads. I've stopped at 26 million registered motor vehicles. I don't know if the data has changed since then, but we do know that we've registered several hundred thousand vehicles in the last year. We don't know how many have been registered, I don't know the balance sheet, but that means the problem is serious. We will think about some of the proposals for a long time, some of them not. I believe that this preventive check, this routine check must remain in the system. How do we want to capture those who pose a major threat - offenders, sometimes drunken crimes? They are most often detected during this routine checkup. Here we will be an ally of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. But I think those proposals that depreciate the perpetrator of the offence, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which cannot identify itself with a document confirming qualifications, documents confirming the technical efficiency of the vehicle or other documents required by the Act, here we can agree. There is no need to punish, but it may be necessary to approach this problem in a different way, because it is not possible, as is the option proposed by the applicants, to block police officers who have to explain, check in the IT systems, whether these powers are available or not. Let's talk about it, discuss it in committee, set up a subcommittee, and perhaps someday in the future, when the government prepares a new, modern law on road traffic, we will deal with this law. Thank you, Marshal, for your tolerance. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u443	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz club15, will present a statement on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u444	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, too, would like to join you in thanking your marshal for allowing Mr. Platform Member to use more time because it is an important bill. In fact, it could be said that my speech, because mathematics cannot be deceived, is almost unfounded, because if the Law and Justice apply for rejection, then 99.9% Tomorrow, we will reject this motion in the course of the vote. And that's not good, because it's, yes, a project submitted by the Kukiz club15, but it's a citizen's bill. I also agree with my previous speaker, Mr Grabarczyk, that such laws are worth talking about. They do happen, as well as this time, the ink choppers, perhaps there are regulations worth discussing. Personally, about these five extra-premia points, I might not agree entirely, but I would like to discuss this, maybe one extra point a year for not committing a crime. However, because we reject this proposal tomorrow, we will not be able to talk about this bill at all. On the one hand, it seems to me that Law and Justice want to be right, because they want the police to have even more right to punish citizens, but it is no longer fair, because we know that at this stage the person controlled has virtually no rights. And among others. This bill raises such issues as to make sure that the person controlled has some rights. Among other things, personal webcams are used, which are not an invention, although I am a proponent of innovation and modernity, personal webcams are not modern, for example. in the United States it has been used for years. Too bad they won't be here any more. Another thing - temporary registration of vehicles. The subject, perhaps, controversial, but certainly expected by many Poles and the fact that we will not be able to discuss it even in subcommittees, committees, indifferent, hurts again. I think it's obvious that there's no mandate for lack of a document, driver's license, with me. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the 21st century, 2017, and to punish someone for not carrying a small box? I think that when we develop the CepIK, when next year, next year, it will enter, the CepIK 2.0 where, in principle, we can check with one click whether the person has the driving authority or not, this record should have been for a long time. I wish we could talk about it. Another thing to make a court decision to take away the authority, not a police officer. 'Cause maybe we'll find out that. One of you, ladies and gentlemen, will be traveling 49 km/h, not 52 km, as the officer seems, but that the officer will have your driver's license removed for 3 months, and perhaps three months, theoretically, we will be immobilized. Another thing was said by the applicant's Member that material evidence would count at the trial in court, not the testimony of a police officer. I think everyone will agree that times that we can say 100% that the policeman is always right and always tells the truth, unfortunately they are over. Among them are people whose testimony cannot be regarded as reliable, yet material evidence, for example video recording, is this. I think that the question of 7 days for the adoption of a mandate is also obvious. Today, under stress, very often people who are controlled must make a quick decision: a mandate or a court order. They often decide on a ticket, because it's faster, because I know that if a policeman starts preparing an application for punishment, etc., it's going to take him a very long time, we're in a hurry, so a ticket, a ticket. And the whole machine works. And so for seven days, we could think about it, consult with a lawyer, anything. I wish we could talk about it. One last thing, the bill is ordering the control process. Currently controlled there are no rights and, as I said at the beginning, thanks to this law, this, you can say, citizens' law, its rights would increase. I understand, Mr President, that the Road Traffic Act is thick, heavy, has almost 19 pages of access to these regulations, but this still needs to be changed. Interestingly, we already have other ideas that go from citizens to change the road traffic bill. If not today, not next year, not for two, then I think that in the next term in one way or another we will be able to do it, and I will admit that there will certainly be revolutionary things, revolutionary as for Poland, because certainly not as far as traffic rules are concerned, because we are taking a lot of solutions from abroad. Where it works, where it's checked out, and it could work with us, too. I appeal once again - let us not reject this project, let us discuss it, at least for a moment in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u445	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u446	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws included in print No 1197. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law tabled by the group of Members contains proposals for amendments to a number of laws, including: in the field of traffic control and in the broader criminal law system. This is a very wide range of changes, which have a significant impact on the areas covered by the regulation, and for this reason it has to be noted that the applicants have conducted quite modest consultations. Perhaps, if they were proper, broad, applicants would avoid significant doubts about the proposals that have already sounded here. Moreover, general doubts are raised by proposing changes to the criminal law system in such a way as not to take account of the need to maintain the coherence of the whole system. This undermines citizens' confidence in the state, as the National Judicial Council also noted in its opinion on the project. High Izbo! Let's get to the details. To begin with, I would like to point out proposals that could possibly be a reason for discussing the target solutions. It is certainly important to note the proposal to include monitoring of police activities and to extend the use of recording and measurement materials from recording equipment. It is wrong that the project takes this into account to such a narrow extent if the proposal also concerned the recording of other interventions undertaken by officers, would respond much better to the expectations of citizens. It is much better to repeal the provision on administrative detention of a driving licence, while introducing the possibility of a driving ban for up to 3 months. The current provisions, as stated by the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 11 October 2016, are incompatible with Article. Article 2 and Article 2 Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution and should be amended. The proposals for simplification of the mandate procedure also draw attention. The amendments proposed by the applicants may speed up these procedures. Unfortunately, the project also contains too many solutions that need to be assessed negatively. The first of these ideas is the elimination of routine controls. Another is the introduction of a negative point institution for the fact that the driver has not received penalty points within a year. The institution of criminal points is an important tool to promote road safety. Applicants are mistakenly assumed that it is a problem to direct more drivers, too many drivers, to repeat exams. However, the problem is road safety and the need for participants to comply with the rules. So the proposals that can break this system are de facto contrary to the social interest. Further controversial changes are the possibility of temporarily suspending registration of a vehicle resulting in suspension of compulsory insurance. The applicants did not provide enough convincing arguments to argue that such a legal situation would lead to the fragmentation of the insurance system, which is also confirmed by the opinion of the Polish Insurance Association. A number of amendments concern the provisions of the Code in cases of misconduct. The proposal to repeal the Article deserves to be rejected. 2 § 1a, which provides that judgment in ordinary proceedings is to take place where there is no basis for the case to be heard in an accelerated or prescriptive procedure. Ratio legis of this provision is the possibility of speeding up and simplifying criminal proceedings by restricting the recognition of cases in ordinary proceedings. Undoubtedly, the repeal of this provision will have a negative impact on the efficiency of ruling in simple matters. Another change which raises a number of doubts both in the area of legal doctrine and practical aspects is the possibility for the accused to resign from the limitation. Similar reservations concern the use or introduction of the concept: formal misconduct. In fact, these are reservations that disqualify these proposals, which is also reflected and confirmed by the Supreme Court's opinion. Our concerns are also raised by proposals for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Both the absolute ban on hearing an officer in a mandate procedure and the repeal of the obligation to indicate in the request for justification the scope of the statement of reasons are proposals that will de facto affect the rights of individual stakeholders, but also the effectiveness of the investigation into the truth. They are therefore not accepted. In conclusion, the bill contains a number of proposals which do not allow a general positive assessment of this submission, but can indeed be a possible reason for discussing the target solutions. Therefore, the Modern project will not be opposed to a possible debate within the committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think such a debate would be needed. In fact, as far as the Law on Road Traffic is concerned, I will also once again address the representatives of the Law and Justice: it is a matter of making some work, however, which would allow for discussion, work on a new draft of the entire Road Traffic Law, because what we have today seems to be very demanding such changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u447	Thank you. On behalf of the Polish People's Party - Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u448	Respected Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present comments, opinions and conclusions concerning printing No. 1197, i.e. the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur, my previous speakers, have raised many aspects in a broad and quite precise way, practically all those aspects that should be raised and highlighted in the discussion of this project, which is entering a very important sphere. It is about the sphere of statutory security, the rules of our security law as a community, the society in the area of movement, communication, road safety. We know ourselves - we are drivers - how important these elements are. It is good that such a project is, well, that we lean on such a project, because the police, while carrying out their duties, competences, also meet many times with comments from controlled, with comments during meetings. The Minister also receives various comments about situations, events. It is a good thing that in this project we are talking about the possibilities or taking up the subject, asking questions about what could be changed, modernised, or introducing new technical possibilities when the police perform activities which, I believe and, as I stress, are necessary, necessary and must be carried out with full conviction and brought to the finals. Because we cannot, by creating new records, question whether the controls will be carried out and when, what we will do with drunk drivers and what - with defective vehicles. How can a policeman, without looking at the driver's documents, determine certain situations or assess the situation in question? I think it's important to consider it and talk about whether it is necessary to punish the driver for not being able to identify himself with a driver's license or registration card, or whether he needs to be punished immediately. We can also consider how to put these relations in check, how to avoid these statements or statements, in order to get out of these situations during court hearings: a word against a word. That is why I think that we can, even though many of the situations or moments mentioned here or areas are very difficult to accept... I know how sorry it is when you get penalty points, but it's hard not to have those points. We can consider adding five penalty points each year, but is that the most important thing? I think we also need to think about how we can withdraw the vehicle from use on whether we pay the OC or not. We know what kind of vehicles, what kind of technical condition they're in on our roads. Mrs. Marshal! I think you can give it a chance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Consider a number of issues in the committee, but the priority is safety, sober drivers, as well as the need to punish crimes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u449	Thank you, sir. You asked me if I could give you a chance to work on the committee. My club was behind this. So do I. Let's get to the questions. There's 10 of them. Time one minute. I'm closing the list because I don't see anyone else. Here we go. Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u450	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to some of the issues included in the proposal to amend the road traffic legislation presented by Kukiz15. I wonder why so much bad will and dislike of members of the Kukiz club15 towards the Polish Police at a time when the percentage of confidence in uniform services, including the Police, is one of the highest in Poland's history. Why am I talking about this? In your explanatory memorandum to the proposal for a new law, you write that the police are rewarded for the tickets issued, the driver's license withdrawn or the registration document retained, which is not true. A policeman may be rewarded for his activity, i.e. the number of vehicles checked, assistance or advice, and not for the number of documents retained. If this is not the case, please state specifically which voivodeship chief or district police officer rewards for the number of arrests, e.g. driving licences. Another thing is that the driver can't even get out of the car during the inspection. Please bear in mind that this provision was introduced for the safety of police officers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It serves to ensure that a controlling officer is not suddenly attacked by an aggressive or guilty driver. I gotta go, right? So here's a quick question: Why do you want to reduce the safety of traffic control officers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u451	Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz,15, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u452	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My dear colleague Wojtek Buczak, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, applied for the rejection of this bill at first reading. He expressed great concern for the police. Mr. Speaker! I think you should be more of a public advocate, because citizens will benefit from this bill if it were passed, but of course Law and Justice is not the author of this law, which is why it throws this project into the trash despite the fact that it contains really very interesting solutions. 30 seconds, okay. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I wanted to say the following. Who cares if a cop has a personal camera and can recreate the conversation between the driver and the cop? What bothers anyone or why a citizen is to be punished for assuming that, with distraction, he forgot his driver's license, while a police officer can at any time check whether the driver has such permissions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It bothers you. And I have a question for the applicant: Is it true that citizens will benefit most from this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u453	Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u454	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also have a question for the applicant: Wouldn't recording by officers violate the confidentiality of personal data, and shouldn't drivers be afraid that their image may be used by third parties? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u455	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! My request and my question to the Minister as well as to the representatives of the Law and Justice Club: Is there a will and is it not worth leaning on this project? He may not be perfect, but isn't this the time to start discussing such a very modern revision of the road code? 'Cause we already have a camera in every other car in the third car today. Drivers record events, events just in case. Today we have a different society, an IT society. In fact, every phone is not only a camera, but also navigation, and other options. Question: "Isn't this the time for us, together as a parliament, to lean on a very important law, the Law on road traffic?" However, I urge you to try to change this opinion and open up to new challenges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u457	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform Club, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u458	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicants how they consulted their project with road safety experts and the operation of uniformed services, so that it does not turn out that the new regulations can partly, for example. to paralyze the police's work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u459	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u460	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was a little freaked out by Mr Masłowski's announcement that you have an awful lot of revolutionary ideas. But we have to deal with this, Minister. [[Applause]] That's why I'm asking you a question. Please tell me how many drunk drivers were exposed during these routine, preventive checks in 2016. How many crimes, the perpetrators of the crime, were revealed by these routine checks? And I'll give you half a minute. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u461	Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15, please, next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u462	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will also refer to the case, the concept of the project, the temporary registration, and consequently, the temporary non-insurance - OC - vehicles. I have a question because many people in Poland have more than one vehicle. Often they are hobbyists, have some motorcycles or some antique cars or not, be youngtimers. The cost, so to speak, a hobby, such fascination with motorization is very high. In the case of the need for insurance of all these vehicles, this significantly limits this passion for motor vehicles, often already retired workers related to the automotive industry. How much of this burden does it have to do to reduce the activity of citizens? And is it a problem for the car to be practically only during the summer season - because, as I say, the owner cares very much - he went away for a month, for two for car rallying, and for the rest of the year [[♪ The bell ♪]] Calmly, without endangering security, was he in the garage? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u463	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Law is a little bit of a manual, sometimes too detailed. This, of course, is not always to be fulfilled. For example, if the vehicle is not registered to me and I took it from a colleague, then I must have a document stating that I have permission or temporary withdrawal from traffic outside the residence area. I think I could keep it in my garage. But these are the details. On the other hand, one thing, I think, is also worth noticing. Here's a question for the Minister. It is about equality when a policeman and a driver are brought to justice. It is known that an officer will always have, or usually has, any other consideration. Do you see any other possibility, apart from the registration, of a minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to treat an officer as not a privileged party in the event of a trial? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u465	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. I thought no woman would ask a question about traffic, and here you are.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u466	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The safety of road users is extremely important and no one needs to be convinced. I would like to refer to what Mr Kukiz said15. Our position, Mr President, is primarily a matter of concern for the citizens of the Law and Justice Club. A serious problem on Polish roads called plague is driving vehicles by people who do not have the authority to do so. We are unable to estimate how large the number of these people is, and only routine checks can remedy this. I have a question about your bill. How is the proposed amendment intended to effectively affect the elimination of drivers who are not entitled to drive or drivers who have been banned from driving? How will the change proposed by you improve road safety? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u467	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u468	Dear Marshal! Minister! Dear Complainer! I'd like to ask you if you were wondering if the insurance was assigned to the driver, not to the car. Here you have proposed an interesting concept in terms of temporary removal, therefore not paying for OC. I would therefore like to ask if you were considering this concept. Two. What are the possible costs that other drivers would have to bear? If we register some of the cars, it's like the amount of money at the insurance company's going to get smaller. Therefore, they would probably raise other OC rates in order to make profits. Did you have any more or less research on the costs? How much would they increase more or less? average other OC costs due to the de-registration of this project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u469	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will ask another question, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u470	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask a question to the Member of the applicant. The project provides for a mechanism of negative points. This is an interesting solution, but I am interested in how the state would like to justify this concept, because in my opinion it does not improve safety. The fact that someone drives safely is a natural thing. He drives according to the regulations, which means he behaves as any driver should. On the other hand, the sealing of the area of the points may pose a risk to road safety, as some drivers may assume that they have 5 additional bonus points that may be received for traffic offences. The state in the project also points out that the reason for introducing such a mechanism is that too many drivers [[♪ The bell ♪]] is directed to a re-test. I would like to ask: How will you explain this proposal from a road safety point of view? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u471	Thank you. The last question will be asked by Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Marshal, thank you for agreeing to this question. Mr Grabarczyk, do not be afraid of our revolutionary ideas, we may have a lot of them, but we are all very happy to consult. We'd be happy to discuss our ideas. We may even have gone a long way sometimes, but that's what the discussion is about, so we'll also benefit from your experience. Mrs Borowiak, I am pleased that you are speaking on behalf of the citizens, but I think the project should go further so that we can discuss this in committee. And now the question to the Member of the applicant. Mr President, is it true that e.g. The introduction of these cameras, miniature cameras, personal cameras will affect the lowering of the level - that's what it needs to be called, otherwise, I can't do more delicately - bribery, because both sides, as an officer, will be afraid to accept bribes, just as a handler, or a controlled person, will be afraid to hand out bribes? So will it have a minimal impact on the level of bribery in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u473	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. So please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński. I ask you, Minister, to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Law on Traffic certainly needs to be constantly considered, and it needs to be improved. None of us have any doubts about that. Especially the demands that have been directed in this matter so that it can re-create the road code are right. We're very serious about this. At the moment, I don't want to declare anything, because this process will continue for some time, the process of analysis, the collection of different concepts, the conclusions that come to the police, other actors, from the experience that is growing. But if this postulate is guided by the representatives of those who ruled for eight years and didn't do it, it's kind of weird. Minister, unfortunately, I must say this because we have been here for a year and a bit, and you have been 8 years and you could have done it. [[You guys are fast.]] If you think that there is such an urgent need that it is already bloated and mature today... Speaking of maturity. Unfortunately, this project is not mature, although it contains some elements that will surely return to the discussion. I can say that we are also considering some solutions, but if this project were to be further worked on, we would probably not have chosen much of these proposed changes, which are already mature enough to be able to turn them into universal law. There are a number of ideas that would certainly not serve if they were adopted, to increase road safety. I don't want to repeat them here. During the discussions, they were called up, and Members in turn said which of them are questionable and probably would not serve to improve road safety. But I repeat in the general part of my short speech - because I already want to move on to questions to the government, which were not many, I will answer them right away - it is worth thinking about the code, it is worth remembering that today he is actually fat, that he has been updated many times, that he is complicated, that life is changing, that our experiences are growing, that our Polish, European and world experiences are worth considering. I'm sure it's worth the right to shape better. But there must always be one most important goal, i.e. to increase road safety, and other goals, also important ones, must be set in hierarchy a little bit lower. There was a lot of discussion here about the possibility or, in principle, the order, if you adopt a law in the form, the use of cameras that record the operation of traffic patrols. Today's law doesn't prohibit it. I would like to say to you that we intend to buy cameras that will be equipped not only for traffic, but also for the operation, so to speak, in other areas of police activity. As far as public places are concerned, today's rules allow them to be applied. Of course, the whole complicated thing starts when we talk about wider use of them. Surely in the future, we will have to think very seriously about how to shape legislation so that there is no doubt that these cameras can be used, and the image of them would certainly be an image in many respects important not only in courts. I understand that there is such a belief that, in the case of disputes, who is right or wrong, whether a check has been carried out correctly, this picture could be relevant. Undoubtedly, yes, but as the question arises - Mr Lassota asked - are there any other instruments besides this picture that could be relevant and decisive here, because the Member suggested that there is an inequality between the rights or position of a police officer and the driver, I think the answer is that a well-functioning court will not allow any inequality in any direction. Question: "Do Polish courts work well in every situation?" That's the answer we all know, probably everyone else a little bit, but we have our experience and observation. But a well-functioning court will certainly not lead to the inequality of these entities, these people. There are other instruments, there are witnesses, there are experts, there are, as I said, well-functioning courts and they are always the greatest guarantee. But, of course, these recordings can be important evidence. I repeat, as part of the modernisation program, we are going to buy cameras, but it is different to use them in situations and actions that are gradually introduced, and another thing is a warrant that will also cost, and it is not very small if all police officers need to be equipped. Of course, the question is why only in traffic. And you don't do anything else, do you? There are sometimes very controversial situations other than those that are on the road, e.g. We had, you were definitely watching it in the media, a couple of debatable cases during home interventions. Right? And here's the question of whether such a camera should be used, whether everyone will agree that it can be allowed, not enough, even ordered, to equip police officers with such recording devices. Because these aren't public places anymore, and there were disputes about whether the police were working properly or incorrectly. This is certainly a problem for discussion, a problem to be solved in the future, only if the Sejm does not adopt this law now, I repeat once again, and so this direction in some actions will be maintained, we have this plan. There was a question about this - Mr Grabarczyk asks - how many drunk drivers were exposed during routine checks in 2016. It is a good thing that you, in your experience as Members of Parliament and Government, see the need for these preventive controls. I can see, too, of course. I wouldn't agree absolutely that these possibilities would be eliminated, even if these are the figures that prove it. In 2015, it was revealed in these preventive controls - that's what I'm going to call it - 130 thousand. Intoxicated drivers. In 2016, there were less drunk drivers, 115 thousand, but this is also a large number, with a slightly larger number of sobriety checks. It has been growing in recent years: in 2015 there were 17 700 thousand. sobriety control, in 2016 - 17 900 000 such checks. So, as you can see, with more of these checks, fewer people are intoxicated, this indicates that this results in the situation simply changing, perhaps too slowly, certainly too slowly, always such a conclusion will come if there are at all cases where it is concluded that intoxicated drivers drive vehicles, but this results. And this could be shown in a much longer, much larger number of years, but this is certainly an important instrument. It is difficult to accept that it can only be controlled if it is suspected of committing a crime or a crime. Preventive controls really have good results, and I will not agree with this philosophy. Besides, the philosophy presented by the project, with a large number of these proposals, shows that this is action. I think it's a little public, that it's a little PR to please the drivers. It might tempt you, but it's a bad road. The right way, the right way is to do this, to make the law that will provide all drivers, including those whom you would like to please, and others, with safety. Safety is an overriding value - I will repeat it again - in road traffic and in general, in all activities. In fact, I think there were so many questions that I wrote to me. Once again, because Mr Andrzej Maciejewski also asked if it is worth discussing the revision of the Road Code. And once again, it's worth it. Of course it's worth it, and you have to do it. Besides, there has been a lot of change in recent years. Perhaps it is true that the situation is ripening to address these issues comprehensively. I do not hide that I stopped at the Ministry and within this MSWiA group - because the police and other services have different ideas - such ad hoc actions, because sometimes it was so that someone had already taken an idea and the media informed about what partial regulations were proposed. I don't think that's good. At least a larger, more mature, thoughtful, complementary area needs to be regulated, and it is best, of course, that the situation matures to the point where we already have a holistic concept of change in order to do it actually in its entirety - to amend, modernise the Road Traffic Law. But it's not an easy task. I remember discussing changes in traffic regulations, even those relating to criminal points. I remember when the Civic Platform, which at the time had the majority in the Seym, was a discussion and then there was the idea of abolishing the penalty points at all. I was against it. I was taking the floor on this. Opposite, because the penalty points... Today you want to add them for unused penalties, so that these points grow to be more, this is a slightly different matter, but I also disagree with that for the reasons mentioned here, and that is when the idea came up to punish only with financial penalties, which were claimed to be the most severe. They are severe, but not equally to all, and I then made such an argument that for those who are wealthy, they are less severe, therefore the rich in the absence of penalty in the form of penalty points could pay fines and drive further, disregarding traffic regulations. Therefore, the combination of financial penalties and penalty points is a good solution, it works out, it has been working for the last years. You have to shape it wisely. Really, to conclude, I would like to appeal once again, to ask you to think about it and not have any sense of insult or harm because there is a motion for rejection. The project is immature, there's nothing to hide, he's immature, but we still need to work on the Traffic Law. Surely there will be a time, maybe soon, maybe a little later, when we agree that this is really the moment to comprehensively discuss it all again and of course not change what is working out, and change what is not working out, what brings experience. For example, this topic of punishment or non-punishment for whether you have a document on you, right? Of course, we are ready to discuss this. I mean, today, when somebody's driving, for example. by bus or train and has an electronic ticket, it doesn't have to have this ticket in paper form, you can check it through the systems. In the case of foreigners, however, this would already be a problem. Just for example, I would like to make a small argument, perhaps, but also meaningful. So that's what I'm calling for, to show that it all has to be more thoughtful, discussed. There are different aspects to be taken into account, not to react in such a one-way way. And that's the appeal I'd like to end my speech with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u475	Thank you very much. And I would also ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Paul Szramka, because the applicants were also asked questions. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u476	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm going to start by saying that my friend here was the best one to use in his speech: it's a shame we won't talk about it. You say that you want to help citizens, to introduce laws that will make life easier for them, and when an idea arises, maybe not ideal, but one that in many records would help these citizens, you reject it at first reading. That's a weird move, but okay. Citizens will settle. There were a lot of questions. Routine control, what's going on here? First of all, routine control takes time for the police to be in places where drivers can potentially be drunk. Routine checks are that the cops pick up the driver from the crowd. If he's not speeding, they see if he's got a fire extinguisher, if he's got a fire extinguisher, they see if he's got a triangle, if he's looking for something until they find something that makes no sense. But of course we're able to talk, maybe this routine check stays, but it's worth explaining what this check is supposed to look like, not that an officer is looking for something. Next case, five bonus points. Here I said that we do not insist on it, but somehow this system works in Italy. What were those points supposed to be for? They were supposed to be a reward for good drivers. I can't imagine a good driver or, if you don't think a road pirate would collect them all year round, drive properly to get those 5 points, and then, I don't know, in January he'd pick all the points, he'd break all the rules. It's a little off the road. Apparently, the Polish Sejm has not yet grown to reward good drivers. [[Applause]] It is interesting that you do not bend over to temporarily register the vehicle. If you can register a vehicle above 3.5 t, how does it differ from an antique vehicle that leaves several times a year? Here a colleague mentioned that it is a car for a passionate, who already incurs a great deal of costs as owner, and the state still makes it difficult for him to carry out his passion. Yeah, well, it's not pretty either. The fact that a citizen doesn't have a driver's license, a document, tell me, what does that really put in his driving skills? Nothing. In fact, every policeman is able to verify that the driver has these powers, so it's completely incomprehensible for me to insist that there must be this document, as if it, I don't know, was a pass to be able to drive a vehicle. Why shouldn't an officer take part in court proceedings? Because, in fact, he becomes a party to the case. If he's running the case, then it's clear that in court, even if he comes to the conclusion that he's made a mistake, he won't admit it, but he's gonna go further in denial. And here, of course, is the inequality between public officials and citizens. The most important point of the bill, personal cameras. A bit divergent opinions, because the Minister said that he was thinking about this solution, that he was thinking about it, while already a Member from Law and Justice said that it was deadly. Well, sir, it's the whole of America that's dead, because that's where those cameras apply. I'd be happy if only this one postulate went through. You can do anything, cut everything else so that only those cameras are there so that we can actually give the citizens the opportunity to defend themselves. Now they're defenseless, they don't have any rights on the road. Policemen's safety, someone accused us of taking security. We're not taking any responsibility from the police, and we're further clarifying the basis of control, the way this check is supposed to look. I don't know, but I don't think you've read the bill. Whether the personal data, a colleague from Kukiz.15, asks, will be able to leave. Of course not, the recordings will only be that if there is a dispute, they will be used in court cases. Mr. Modern asked if it would cause the insurance market to suffer a bit from the fact that the driver who has five cars will pay less contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't care about the insurance company. I'm interested in the citizen. If he's got five cars, he doesn't drive five at a time, so he doesn't pose a five-fold threat. [[Applause]] And last, bribes. For a man's brain, if there's a camera that records the event, it's probably harder for that cop, and the driver will be harder to bribe. I think it radically reduces the possibility of bribery. Finally, I would like to say to you that the changes we are proposing relate to the real problems of drivers, i.e. citizens. Not mine, some imaginary, I don't know, I've been sitting around, I've been bored, I've made them up - these are problems that have been reported to the Law Society on the Road. This association has helped many citizens, because it is not an equal fight when the proposal goes to court. I hope that one day there will be a day when the ruling party will listen to the citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u477	Here you go, sir, one minute to correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u478	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Corrigendum. It's for you. Well, I wasn't asking about the OC, I was just asking why you didn't consider issues related to road safety in the first place - how much these negative points could affect road safety in a negative way. On the other hand, you didn't really listen to my speech, because the only thing I said about mandatory OC insurance was that the state didn't make enough arguments for it not to be a fragmented whole compulsory insurance system. And you didn't make that argument again in your speech, you didn't deepen it, so it's hard for us to consider these answers sufficient. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[There's a solution in Germany.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u479	The discussion is closed. There was a motion for rejection in the discussion... [[Can I just answer that?]] There's no more... It was in correction mode, so that's where we end this part. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Law on Road Traffic (Print No 1199). I ask Mr Mark Owl to present the justification for the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of Messengers and Members of Modernity, I have the honour to present to you a draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Road Traffic Law Act. Before I move on to a detailed presentation of the changes we have proposed, let me briefly refer to the problem of poor air quality that we have to deal with almost every day. The smog problem is not a theoretical problem. The problem of smog, which we have been able to find out in the last few weeks, concerns all of us. According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the European Environment Agency, Poland has for years had the most polluted air throughout the European Union. Smog kills. It's the cause of 48,000. Deaths per year. Out of the 50 most polluted European cities, 33 are Polish cities, mainly located in the south of our country. This is on the one hand a cause for shame, but for us politicians, this should be the last moment to adopt radical solutions to improve air quality. I must add with sadness that the last year in this respect is completely lost. The government majority has not prepared any solutions to improve this state, and worse, it has taken decisions which have the effect of halting the financing of programmes aimed at inter alia. replacement of boilers or thermomodernisation of buildings. A modern antismog decalogue has been prepared. Among the proposed solutions we propose, among others. the programme for the expansion of district heating networks, the co-financing of the conversion of boilers to modern, class V standards, the programme for the support for the exchange of low-carbon collective transport rolling stock, the promotion of collective transport measures, subsidies for low-income households using clean fuels, the regulation setting standards for boilers and fuel quality - but this cannot be a sham action, as is the case with the draft regulations - civic air monitoring and an effective control system, education programmes raising citizens' awareness or, finally, legal changes enabling the establishment of temporary or permanent zones or permanent emissions. The fight against smog should be a priority of the government today, implemented in cooperation with local governments. For many cities today, this is the most important challenge they face. These cities expect legal solutions and real support programmes for municipal low emission reduction programmes. One of the largest sources of air pollution is communication pollution, including emissions from the movement of vehicles driven by internal combustion engines. In the current state of law, local authorities cannot take real action to significantly reduce communication pollution. Like solutions adopted in many European cities, the Modern Posel Club, taking into account the calls of non-governmental and local communities, proposes a bill amending the Environmental Law and the Road Traffic Law which allows the city council to establish a population of more than 200 000. a restricted or prohibited zone for emissions from the movement of vehicles with internal combustion engines by introducing restrictions or prohibitions on entry into the zone for vehicles not complying with the established Euro emission standards. At present, there are no regulations in Poland that would introduce transport restrictions due to poor air quality or allow competent authorities to introduce such restrictions. On the other hand, emissions from modes of transport have a major impact on air quality, especially in cities with a large number of inhabitants. The transport sector is a source of air pollutants such as nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, aromatic hydrocarbons, heavy metals and PM10 and PM2.5 dust. Communication pollution is today the second, after emissions from domestic ovens, source of air pollution and at national level, their share is already 9%. - this is the data recorded in the national air protection programme by 2020. In large cities this share is much larger. For example, in Cracow it exceeds 20%, and in Warsaw communication pollution in peak periods has an 80% share and they themselves exceed the permitted standards - 65 micrograms per cubic meter. Added to the Environmental Law Art. 96b provides the possibility for the city/city council to establish more than 200 000 inhabitants. the restricted or banned exhaust emissions of vehicles driven by internal combustion engines. The municipality's municipal council's resolution under this provision will have to, it is mandatory, contain the elements specified therein specifying the territorial scope of the zone, its restrictions, prohibitions and orders laid down in relation to the emission requirements for exhaust pollutants. In determining the area covered by the zone, account should be taken of the need to ensure transit traffic. The resolution will also allow exemptions from its prohibitions or orders. I asked for an opinion on the changes we proposed to the presidents of 16 cities, those cities to which this law may have its reference, to which it may affect. And so, for example, I will quote three opinions which, I think, are very important, and I immediately point out that most of the presidents have responded to the request for an opinion and that these are only positive opinions. For example, the Deputy President of Warsaw writes: The introduction of the proposed changes will also be the implementation of some of the postulates presented in the position taken on 12 January 2016 by the largest Polish cities concentrated in the Union of Polish Metropolises, i.e. the transfer of competences to local governments regarding the possibility of establishing in city centres restricted communication emission zones and the dependence of the authorisation to enter these vehicle zones on the fulfilment of relevant emission standards. Systemic solutions adopted at national legislation level will help to increase the effectiveness of action to reduce emissions and improve air quality. The President of Krakow informs that the initiative presented is fully justified, that he already spoke to the Minister of the Environment in 2011, asking for the necessary changes to the air quality issues to be included in the legislative initiatives, and that this law will be another tool for an effective fight for clean air. Similarly, President Częstochowa's opinion is positive, which declares that if the changes in question enter into force, they will seek to ensure that the Częstochowa City Council establishes a permanent or periodic zone of restricted or prohibited traffic of vehicles driven by internal combustion engines, which will be properly marked. I would like to declare that the proposals for changes made by the presidents of cities will mostly try to introduce this law into it. I would also like to say that this project complies with European Union legislation, with Directive 2008/50/EC. Moreover, the Sejm Analysis Office stresses that Poland's correct implementation of this directive has been raised by the European Commission on several occasions. Last year, the Commission called on Poland to take action on air pollution, to comply with European Union rules obliging citizens to reduce their exposure to small PM10 particles. It is also worth remembering that on 15 June Ub. Once again, the Commission brought an action against Poland before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The introduction of these zones should contribute to reducing transport emissions and thus improve urban air quality. The proposed amendment itself will not entail the need for public expenditure. However, labelling costs will have to be incurred if the City Council decides to take advantage of the powers conferred on it by the law and establishes a zone with limited transport emissions. The costs incurred for the supply and distribution of vehicle labelling labels will only be charged temporarily to the budget of the local government unit, since the entity to whom they will be issued will ultimately be obliged to cover them according to the assumptions adopted. Please, Members, so that we can work on this bill in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Aye, aye, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u481	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Here we go. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Rafał Weber on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u482	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to give our opinion on printing no. 1199, i.e. on amending the provisions of the Environmental Law and the Law on Road Traffic. I will point out some very serious shortcomings in this law, which in our opinion discredits it. Firstly, it should be noted that the justification for the project does not state whether local authorities have declared the validity and purpose of introducing restricted or prohibited vehicle traffic zones. Legal solutions in this area should clearly meet the rationale of purpose, which will ensure that the law developed is applied in practice. 16 local authorities are included in this project, while only 3 opinions were quoted by the applicant Member. We do not know the position of other local governments. Another deficiency is related to the proposal to add an article. 96b in the Environmental Law Act, allowing the introduction of a resolution which is an act of local law of a fixed or periodic zone limited or prohibited movement of vehicles driven by internal combustion engines. It should be noted that the provision currently proposed confers exclusive competence on the City Council to establish the abovementioned zones, without having to take into account the requirements of road managers arising from the need to ensure the coherence of the road network. Both in the draft version of the article. 96b. Point 2 (1) and the explanatory memorandum of the draft law indicate that the designated area covered by the zone should take account of the need to ensure transit traffic, but in practice, it will be possible, for example, to designate a restricted or prohibited zone for vehicles driven by internal combustion engines. the closure for residents of a national road performing a transit function through the city, irrespective of the possibility to determine its alternative course. Another point is that it should also be pointed out that the legislative delegation proposed in the draft seems insufficient to issue a regulation. Issues covered by the proposed delegation need to be regulated by law. This includes: the identification of the operators issuing the marking confirming the emission class, the indication that the revenue from the labelling fees and the imposition of a penalty for the failure to mark the vehicle will constitute the revenue of the State budget. It should be stressed that the implementing rules cannot generate financial consequences beyond those arising from the law. It is not clear from the draft law whether the marking would be subject to all vehicles in the country. The completely overlooked issue is how to deal with cars registered in other countries. It is not clear whether the labelling would be common to all cities, or whether it could be differentiated. It also appears essential that the justification for the project does not fully indicate the social impact of the proposed regulation, i.e. the impact on citizens - global and concrete - and the economic impact of banning certain vehicles. There is also no indication whether the introduction of these zones in other countries has affected the level of air pollution. In view of the above, the number of deficiencies and their seriousness, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice makes an application for rejection in full in the first reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Law on Road Traffic contained in print No 1199. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u483	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform Club. Here you go, another statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u484	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! The project aims to create legal instruments for the establishment by the city council of more than 200,000 inhabitants. a restricted or prohibited zone for the emissions of vehicles which are driven by internal combustion engines by the introduction of a restriction or prohibition of entry into a given zone for vehicles which do not meet the Euro emission standards. The last few months have particularly drawn our attention to the dangers of smog in Poland. The dramatic situation is in the cities. It's only February, and already 16 cities in the country have exhausted the 35-day limit of air pollution standards. Not only are environmental organizations hitting the alarm, but it must also be emphasized every time we talk about smog, medical organizations. Smog is a threat to our health and life. Different actions are being taken, but unfortunately the situation is not improving. You can boast about antismog resolutions adopted by the Małopolska Sejm, introducing a ban on smoking coal in Krakow, a ban on installing boilers that do not meet the standards of emission in the whole of Małopolska, but the effects of these regulations will be visible only a few years from now. On the other hand, local authorities are also slow in the most dangerous situations - smog alarms are announced lately and the possibilities of emergency measures are not fully exploited, applications for the replacement of furnaces are considered slow. Self-governments also explain the lack of antismog regulation, and they're right. Today, there is a proposal to implement one of these local proposals. Anyway, it's time to put an end to the argument and to the guilt. The problem of smog is cross-party, nationwide and unfortunately applies to all of us. The issue of solving the smog problem is particularly close to the Civic Platform. The National Air Protection Programme was established under our governments, so-called "National Air Protection Programme." The antismog bill has prepared quality standards for coal. Unfortunately, they were not adopted at that time because of the resistance of our coalitioners, and now they are copied, relatively inefficiently, by the current government. Therefore, at the beginning of our term of office we established a parliamentary team to improve air quality in Poland. We have confirmed the diagnosis and we are trying to put pressure on the rulers, control the government's actions, and also propose new solutions. The government has now drawn up a regulation on the requirements for solid fuel boilers and has prepared legislative amendments to introduce a quality standard for coal, but this project raises serious concerns and will not significantly improve the situation. That is why we need to proceed further and urgently. One source of smog is communication emissions. The government should start fighting with this aspect of smog, which is why this project is so important. Local authorities should be given the opportunity to introduce restricted emission zones, vehicle labelling in terms of their emissions. This will be another tool that will allow local governments to fight smog. I was listening to you just now. It's so hypocritical to say that there are no opinions of other local governments here, there are only three. We have just finished the meeting of the Environment Committee, where a project has been adopted that deprives the local government of its influence on regional environmental funds. We requested a public hearing. We said that we needed consultation with local governments, because it hits local governments and according to law is required consultation with local governments. Violent rejection of this, our proposals, our unwillingness to dialogue, our unwillingness to listen to self-government. And today, Mr President, you say that there are a few opinions missing. That's really fariseism. [[Applause]] Therefore, the Civic Platform supports the parliamentary project giving the possibility of introducing by local governments Warsaw, Cracow, Łódź, Wrocław, Poznań, Gdansk, Szczecin, Bydgoszcz, Lublin, Katowice, Białystok, Gdynia, Czestochowa, Radom, Sosnowiec, Torunia zone limited or banned emissions from the movement of vehicles powered by combustion engines. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u485	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, first Mr Sylwester Khrushch and then Mr Jarosław Porwich, if only time was needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u486	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fight against environmental pollution is undoubtedly a very important issue and should be carried out systematically and on many levels. Reports from recent weeks related to increased levels of air pollution in many Polish cities raise legitimate concerns. Poselski Club Project The modern proposal is to drastically restrict the access of our country's citizens to city centres. Possibility of introducing protection zones in cities above 200,000. local authorities will limit the freedom of movement of many Poles. As indicated by the applicants themselves, 78% vehicles in Poland are more than 10-year-old cars and therefore not meeting the latest high-quality emission standards. Unfortunately, we are still a quite poor society, which is why there is such a high proportion of older cars registered in Poland. We are concerned that by supporting this project in this form, we would contribute to restricting the access of Poles to the centers of the largest cities in our country. However, in more than 200 000 cities, especially in the centre, there are many institutions, businesses and public utility facilities, which are not the only ones not only locals need access to - for them the use of public transport is not a problem. The inhabitants of the region, often small towns and villages, are also in need, where it is difficult to get a job... [[Voice from the room: They're afraid...]] [[Shh...]] ...and if there is already this job, then quite often these are very low-paid jobs. It is these people who are the largest group who cannot afford new vehicles straight from car dealerships. And it is these people who will be the most disadvantaged in the case of regulating their access to city centres, and we fear that, following the adoption of the law, local authorities could decide to take such a step. We also believe that the pollution caused by car exhaust emissions is only about 6%. general pollution in cities. And just like my esteemed previous speaker Bogusław Sonik said, we must pay attention to pollution from coal burning, from heating. This is what we should focus our attention on if we want to reduce smog in Poland if we want to have clean air in our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u487	Thank you. And the second part, as I said, of the speech on behalf of the club - Mr Jarosław Porwich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u488	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Naturally, the Kukiz Club is committed to taking care of the environment and agrees with the need to combat the causes of smog, but we do not think that this law will help to eliminate the main causes. The Supreme Audit Chamber report indicates that communication pollution is not more than 7% pollutants responsible for smog. The main problem is so-called. Low emissions and this is where the possibility of a significant reduction of emissions should be sought. In our view, the bill under discussion not only does not solve the fundamental problem of environmental pollution, but, above all, creates the possibility of restricting the freedom of movement of citizens of the Republic. They should decide on the means of transport they intend to reach their intended goal, not the officials. Therefore, I cannot afford a positive recommendation of the Modern Poselski Club project. I will say more because the project is de facto anti-social, on behalf of the Kukiz club15 I am asking for its rejection at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u489	Mrs Ewa Lieder will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u490	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In Poznań, Cracow and Warsaw there is already free public transport in the days when the concentration of harmful dust over the city is very high. Councillors in Łódź adopted rules for granting grants for air protection projects. More and more city councils are involved in improving air quality in cities. In addition, the government declares that it plans to produce a zero-carbon electric bus for cities in Poland. This law therefore forms part of the process of combating smog at local level and provides further opportunities and tools for comprehensive action to overcome this problem, which is in the interest of all of us. The project concerns the possibility for the City Council to establish more than 200 000 inhabitants. restricted or banned exhaust emissions from vehicles driven by internal combustion engines by introducing restrictions or bans on entry into a given zone for vehicles not complying with determined emission standards (Euro) . For a huge number of vehicles in Poland, the European exhaust emission standard is foreign. Now that citizens are increasingly aware of the risks posed by air pollution, the introduction of the proposed legislation is an absolute necessity. Why are they so important? It is true that smog on a national scale is primarily responsible for furnaces in apartments, i.e. the so-called. low emissions. 2 years ago, the Supreme Chamber of Control published a report on air quality control in Poland. According to him, it's about 90%. pollution is responsible for low emissions, communication pollution is about 9%. However, these are data for the whole country, and smog is often pointy. In the same report, NIK drew attention to local circumstances and pointed out that in 2011 linear emissions in Warsaw accounted for 63% of PM10 concentrations - the dust generated by car transport composed of soot particles, ashes and heavy metals. The contribution of motor transport to air pollution emissions is largely due to the poor technical condition and age of vehicles and the lack of adequate road infrastructure in large cities. Cars moving in traffic simply consume more fuel, which increases air emissions. Studies also confirmed that children more than adults are susceptible to the harmful effects of the exhaust gas. The results suggest that exposure in foetal life to multi-ring aromatic hydrocarbons from the air, the source of which are components, among others. car exhausts, negatively affect the development of mental abilities of children up to the age of 5. An additional profit from this law will be the reduction of noise in cities. The permissible noise level is 60 dB per day and 50 dB per night. This size is changing in large cities, over 100,000. The population is 65 and 55 dB and is largely related to road noise. The World Health Organization recommends that noise during the day should not exceed 55 dB. The proposed regulations will not block transit traffic. They will also make it possible to introduce exemptions from the regulations of city councils on prohibitions or orders concerning vehicles belonging to the zone's residents, as well as privileged vehicles, public transport vehicles, taxis, vehicles of disabled persons, historical or historic vehicles. Poland is leading the ranking of European countries with the most polluted air. Similar to the proposed changes, some European countries have significantly lower levels of air pollution. France, for example, has entered into force since 1 July 2016 by rules prohibiting the entry into Paris of vehicles manufactured before 1997. The ban applies to both passenger cars and commercial vehicles and motorcycles. From 1 January 2008, only vehicles meeting certain exhaust requirements - red, yellow and green - may move in the designated part of the city. From 1 January 2010, only Euro 4 cars with a green label are allowed into the strict centre. For lack of a badge or entry by an unauthorized car, a fine of EUR 40 is at risk. Such regulations also exist in the Czech Republic. The Modern Posel Club supports the project and requests that it be transferred to the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u491	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will use the rest of the time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u492	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Project submitted by the Poselski Club Modern is perfect. First of all, he doesn't force anyone to do anything. It is the city council that will be able to put in place rules for health protection, enabling the creation of zones at the explicit request of the inhabitants, after consulting the residents. Secondly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It allows you to solve a very serious problem of smog in city centers, because this problem is, you can't run away from it. To the opponents who applied for rejection at first reading, I have a request to re-examine this and to take into account the idea that those who oppose such projects, which limit smog, are de facto in favour of the Poles living shorter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u493	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u494	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour and opportunity to present an opinion on the contested draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Road Traffic Law Act. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What else has to happen, how far do we have to go when it comes to pollution of our environment, so that we start talking about how in particular elements, areas or links we take action to reduce this pollution, this emissions of harmful substances? What else do we have to... What else do we need to find out so that we don't just get mad at each other, saying, by searching for all the things that are in favour of not taking a job in projects submitted by individual groups? After all, we're supposed to take care of the environment for ourselves so that we can have something to breathe for ourselves and for our children. And why... I wonder as a self-governmentman with 26 years of experience: Why, if the government is not able to react so quickly to the situation that has so sounded this year, prevent or not give the local authorities a chance to take up these challenges? Why? After all, the Prime Minister in her exposé encouraged cooperation, cooperation. Why can't self-government be treated as a partner? Does this self-government mean bad? Is this project that our modern colleagues introduced here today going in the wrong direction? The Member representing the Law and Justice has said and left. So if there are some shortcomings, why not take this effort in this particular situation and remove these shortcomings when working on committees or committees? We're just saying and we're going, we're going. Our fellow Member - I don't think he will be offended - from the Kukiz group says that the project is antisocial. What are the social features that we're going to have in those big cities that affect the rest of the country or the neighborhood, cleaner air? In no European country, no capital is possible, regardless of the emission of harmful substances, to enter the city centers by vehicles. Do we always have to learn from our mistakes and then say that we missed something, that we forgot something? Can't we work together? Why can we not - even if we assume that nothing is perfect, as well as this project - work together in committees? It's not about partying, it's about clean air, it's about our environment. The Polish People's Party will be in favour of directing this project to further work, because that is the need for a moment. And I appeal to the Members: let us consider this, let us break this principle, that if we did not report it, it must be dropped, evil. Does the air for breathing, for us and for our children, have to be a political issue too? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u495	And on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u496	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Road Traffic Law Act. The solutions presented in the project mainly provide for the possibility for city councils with more than 200,000 inhabitants. the creation in them by a permanent or periodic resolution of a restricted or prohibited zone of traffic of vehicles driven by internal combustion engines. As the applicants point out, this project is due to the need to reduce emissions of pollutants whose intensity in large cities is correlated with a large number of vehicles exceeding the exhaust emissions of the European Euro standards. Projectors have rightly assumed that one of the factors that has a significant impact on the deteriorating quality of atmospheric air is the increasing number of cars. What are the chances that the proposed solution will deliver the expected results? The problem is his optionality. Also, provisions referring to the freedom to grant exemptions from the prohibitions laid down in the resolutions, even though it is understandable, can offset the expected positive effects. Similar doubts are also raised as to the freedom left, which the Euro standard should be met specifically by vehicles for which the movement in designated zones is to be permitted. I agree with the designers that the problem of air pollution is serious and specific actions are needed, but although car transport contributes significantly to it, it is mainly due to the widespread use of coal-fired furnaces and boilers. When it comes to road transport, it is worth considering increasing efforts to encourage citizens to use more environmentally friendly cars, public transport or to switch to bikes. I believe that further discussion on this project today is essential. We're hoping for a follow-up on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u497	Thank you very much. Seven people have entered the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Would any of you like any more? I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. And we begin with Mrs Margaret Navel. I don't see a Member. In that case, Mr Sylwester Khrushch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u498	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. As has already been done several times in this debate, the pollution caused by communication, by road traffic, is about 6 and 9%. We know the problem is generally elsewhere, but it's a good thing we're discussing it, and it's a good thing we're talking about it. We are missing, as Mrs. Mirror said just now, a precise determination of the degree of contamination of compounds such as carbon dioxide, nitric oxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide. We should determine exactly what level of pollution cars cannot enter the city centers, so that in the future it is not possible to circumvent it, in some way. I'm also a resident of Szczecin. I often go to Berlin, where these solutions have been for many, many years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've got all these markings on my cars myself...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u499	Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u500	And I think we should go in that direction, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u501	Here you go, next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u502	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Actually, I have a proposition for the Minister on this matter. Often Law and Justice claims to make better decisions than the previous team. Of course, this is not always justified, but in this case the Minister has a chance to confirm it. It is no secret that this proposal was already prepared in the previous term of office. Unfortunately, at that time it was not possible to introduce it to the Sejm. Today is an opportunity for the Minister to show that the decisions he will take will be more favourable than the previous decision that has not been put in place. There are many arguments for this, because, of course, in addition to the mortality that results from this, there is also a case... Germans, for example, were mentioned here. 50 German cities have such limitations. So there's no reason to avoid good solutions. I ask the Minister: Would the Minister like to confirm his superiority with regard to the previous decision? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u503	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u504	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project aims to give the opportunity to create ecozones to the largest cities in Poland. I have a question for you applicants: why did you not try to link the limitation of car traffic to the introduction of free collective communication? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u505	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u506	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the verification of motor vehicles with regard to the exhaust emission class according to Euro standards. It is about restrictions and prohibitions on movement in the zone, that they be subject to the marking confirming the above emission class. The problem is how vehicles can be certified, who is responsible for the distribution of these stickers. Of course, the concern of Kukiz15 also concerns air quality, but the applicants forgot one important thing. The biggest thing I'm going to say is that PSL, the Platform, I'm sorry, the former Civic Platform, wants to talk about smog, but for many years it's been completely neglected about a system solution to district heating networks that would limit this emissions. And that is also the basis of smog problems in the present time. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u507	Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz, 15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u508	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is, of course, to the Member of the applicant. We know that cars cause pollution around 6%. In turn, the market for hybrid cars is developing very rapidly abroad, and even more so - electric cars. Moreover, institutional customers are increasingly coming and choosing organic cars, mainly hybrid cars. In 2016, almost 10,000 were registered. such models, with such drive. This means an increase of nearly 80% in this segment. This shows that awareness of citizens, especially entrepreneurs, is going in the right direction. And now my digression. Maybe we should go this way to work on even greater development and promotion of this segment, and not necessarily shut down cities for cars? Let's just try to develop it, read it. Am I the only one reading these various foreign studies, American? Let's think about developing electric cars. Let's not shut down the cities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So is it true that the development of electric cars would be better than closing down cities for cars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u509	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u510	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question from the representative of the applicants, because the draft provides for the issue, gives the basis for a regulation laying down specific conditions for emissions, indications, etc. I would like to ask you: Do you have a project that could also be the basis for debates that could take place at the meetings of the relevant committees if the project were addressed to further work in the committee? And the second question to the Member is: Is it true that reducing the amount of smog will increase the lives of the inhabitants in relation to what we have now, when they breathe this polluted air? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u511	Thank you very much. First, I will ask you to answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Jerzy Szmit. Will you answer the Minister? Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u512	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say, first of all, that in this case, there is not yet a government position on this project. On the other hand, allow me to present the comments that arose for this project in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Indeed, the intention of this project is absolutely right: reducing air pollution in large cities or even in large or small cities is extremely important and important. However, as is often the case, good intentions must still be supported by solutions, proposals that not only express intentions but also refer to the existing legal order, and must refer to the feasibility of a project that is proposed. At the same time, I would like to make a few comments with the High House. For a good case on the substance, we have here basically one idea, one substantive solution, that the city council with a population of more than 200,000. in order to prevent negative effects on the environment due to emissions of exhaust gases, it may establish a permanent or periodic zone of restricted or prohibited movement of vehicles driven by internal combustion engines by a resolution which is an act of local law. It is clear what the purpose of the article is, in this first point. On the other hand, doubts arise in the case of the second point. Namely, the resolution in question defines the boundaries of the area covered by the zone, taking into account the need to ensure transit traffic. Of course it is written: the provision of transit traffic, but many times we are also dealing with a situation where the traffic organisations shown provide transit traffic creates very far detours. And there are no solutions here that could even eliminate such a circumstance. It is not necessary, for example, to agree with other traffic organisers in areas adjacent to those areas where restrictions or prohibitions are to be introduced. Next, point 2, which cannot be accepted. I'll tell you why. Namely, point 2 is as follows: the emission requirements of the exhaust gas for the types of vehicles allowed to move within the zone. So any city council will be able to set its requirements. So a dozen Polish cities referred to here under this law will be able to establish their requirements. Unfortunately, that's what it says. Is this an acceptable solution? I don't know. I'll leave that to the applicants. The next point is the additional emission requirements contained in the exhaust gas. It is also a way of organising a limitation or ban on the movement of vehicles driven by internal combustion engines in accordance with the short-term action plan referred to in Article. 92. So once again, governments, presidents and councils of big cities are actually given unlimited opportunities in this area, because one council will say that when pollution is at the level of five individuals, bans already need to be introduced, another council will say that at 15. And where did this citizen who lives in the city come from? A, and he wants to go to town B, he's supposed to find out what level of pollution is expected and can he come in? This is an attempt to answer in further parts of the bill, but this attempt to answer is simply wrong. On the other hand, there is the assumption that here is total voluntaryity for individual local authorities in setting up zones. There are no conditions that will determine the range, but there is a total freedom here in this regard. Next, point 4: restrictions or prohibitions on movement within the zone referred to in paragraph. 1, depends on assigning the vehicle to the exhaust emission class of vehicles determined according to Euro emission standards. One of the Members in the previous point has already spoken on this subject during the course of the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, today this record is simply impossible, impossible. We would have to create a system in Poland today which, first, would ensure that there is universal access to the Euro classification as regards passenger cars. There is access for trucks in international transport. That's a definite one. In the case of passenger cars, however, this is not the case. There is no obligation to enter in the registration documents the Euro classification. It is also not possible to verify whether a particular type of car produced in a given yearbook has one or another classification of Euro. This can only be done by using Transport Technical Supervision, but this is one institution, a small institution, which would actually have to answer all these questions. Such a solution is possible, it would be possible, if in Poland today we have a system for recording, determining and accessing this information, the possibility of verifying it also by the authorities that will issue these markings, which we will continue to talk about. Then, in point 6, what the government has to do begins. On the one hand, we have very loose and very far-reaching competences of local governments, while what is actually difficult to do and expensive in terms of organizationalism, but also requiring a very, very serious effort, is being transferred to the government. Unfortunately, these are wrong records that I'm about to tell you about. So it is the government that is to determine the emission class of vehicles according to their Euro emission standards. So what if the government determines it if there's no way to verify it in practice? So what? Besides, how is it that in fact a local government can freely determine the conditions under which it will determine the scope of the zones? Paragraph 2: way of confirming the exhaust emission class of the vehicle, taking into account the confirmation of the class at the first registration of the vehicle and the confirmation of the class for vehicles previously registered. Such a far-reaching solution, imposing obligations on a citizen cannot be introduced, it must be a statutory solution, so there would have to be a statutory delegation here, not a regulation. Then: the model of the vehicle marking and the manner in which it is affixed to the vehicle, taking into account the need to harmonise the classification and marking. Okay, the pattern -- yes, the way it's placed -- yes, but it's not really clear who's really going to do it. There's a pattern, okay, there's a regulation, but who's gonna keep doing it? Operators shall, when issuing labels, take into account the method of confirming the exhaust emission class. So here too, I think, I'd like an explanation. When issuing the label, entities take into account the way they confirm the emission class - I would ask you to explain it, because here, I confess, I am unable to tell you how to understand this record. Then: the amount of labelling fees, taking into account the costs associated with their issue and distribution and differentiation depending on the method of confirming the quality class of the exhaust gas. The introduction of fees is theoretically simple, but once again I stress that it has been pushed to the government and the government has to deal with it. Self - government is merely to set boundaries, but the rest is to be dealt with by the government. Nor is it said how the whole system is to work. Whoever will bear the first costs, who will bear the costs of distributing these marks, unfortunately there is no such thing. We have a fine for those who do not comply with these provisions. High Izbo! In conclusion, the goal is undoubtedly noble. It seems, however, that we should take such a complicated and difficult issue as the introduction of such prohibitions, in such a diverse environment, to approach in a way that guarantees that the work that would have to be done will be a work that will ultimately have a concrete effect. I think that as far as this project is concerned, I am not going to be able to carry out general assessments, it seems that the comments and reservations that I have tabled will, for now, be the opinion that we are expressing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u513	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, a representative of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u514	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will begin by answering the questions you asked Minister Szmit if you had raised your doubts. I was thinking that if I were in your shoes when I was preparing for this bill, first of all, I would listen to the justification. I would listen to the justification, because the final part of my speech was about costs. Then you'd know who's gonna pay for the vehicle marking, that this is the cost that's gonna be passed on to the owner of the vehicle, that it's gonna cost the government to mark the zone, but you wouldn't listen to it. If you didn't listen to the justification for the bill, I think you didn't get to know the contents of this draft of changes. Let me ask you a question. Tell me who's going to issue a regulation if not the government. Who's gonna spend it? It is known that there is a government, individual departments, to issue regulations. At least if I were you... Your officials should face this problem, with this task, which, in this proposal for change, is assigned to the government. If you sat down, you would soon find that it's not so difficult that it's not a task that you can't handle. I will tell you more, this proposal, which I am proposing today, has been largely tabled to the Sejm in the previous term by Tadeusz Arkit and the Ministry at that time prepared regulations. I've got a regulation like that. There was a positive opinion of the Ministry of Environment. I don't know about the Ministry of Infrastructure. You have everything here: the marking, the vehicle classes, whether it's suitable, it's not difficult. All over Europe, Minister, they've dealt with it. The Poles are not really dull, they will also be able to properly describe all these issues so that solutions that work in Europe can also be applied in Poland. You just didn't want to, because you doctrinally oppose any solutions. And the worst thing that can happen, and you absolutely won't let it happen, is to trust local governments. Because you self-governments don't like them, you don't trust them, and that's why you won't agree to give them anything, and if there's a chance, you'll take their job step by step. There have been many questions raised by various Members. Thank you very much for all these questions and I would like to address them. There were differences in the share of communication pollution in total. I said 9%. Some have said it's only 6%. You must realise that we are talking about two levels of pollution. On the one hand, This is a 6-percent pollution from the traffic of vehicles, which is directly from the exhaust gas, and 3% from the This is secondary emissions of particulate pollutants from the surface of the roads. You just have to combine these two sources with each other when it comes to communication pollution, and that's 9% in total. , this is precisely described in the National Air Protection Programme. What I want to say is that this is not going to make life any harder, because I realise that some of the cars that will be banned will obviously not be able to enter the city centre or the whole city, depending on what zone will be introduced... However, the aim of this law is not to protect vehicles, but to improve air quality, in particular in those places where these levels are exceeded by far the greatest. And no doubt today we have the biggest problem in big cities. Minister, not your department, but the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration purchased 4,000 a month ago. antismog masks for police officers in Małopolska. This is a purchase made by the Police Command, so that policemen who are on the streets in Krakow, Nowy Targ and Nowy Sącz will not poison themselves. According to the Chief Environmental Inspector, you can't breathe there. And we also have 60% today. even though the climatic conditions are good, in the center of Krakow we have 60% Out of line, that's the way it is. After all, these messages, which in the last weeks of this year were constantly given, alarmed how tragic the situation is throughout Poland. You are simply taking away from local governments one of the tools that could be an effective tool. I would like to thank the Members of the Polish People's Party, the Civic and Modern Platform for their support for this bill. Everything points out that we will not have a chance to work on this document, and I regret it very much, because, as I said, the initiative to introduce such solutions was born earlier and was born among local authorities. I've summoned your opinion of local government officials. I very much regret that Mr Rafał Weber is not here with us, that after giving an opinion and submitting an application, although he said that I had not presented all the opinions, he ran out of this room, fled. He probably had other important activities - he might not have taken this point, he could have given this point to someone who would have felt better and probably knew more about antismog than he did, but apparently he ate all his senses and thought he absolutely didn't need to hear anything anymore. That's too bad. I will tell him that the President of Poznań also submitted positive opinions, and the positive opinion was submitted by the presidents of Wrocław, Sosnowiec, Łódź and the Polish Smog Alert submitted a positive opinion to this project. He felt that this was a very important tool and that this power should be given to local governments. I must say this to Mr Weber, but also to the Minister, because he should know that, especially since he is responsible for the roads, the President of the City is the administrator of all municipal, district and national roads in the presidential cities. We're just saying... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't look for a hole in it. We're only talking about presidential cities. Who is this president supposed to agree with? With their own institutions that manage the road network, not with the minister, because the minister has nothing to say about it, because it is the task of the communes themselves, and you need to know it. If it's all going on with one gestor, then there's no need, Minister, to consult with someone else. This is something you should know, because if you read these proposed changes, you would certainly be prepared for it, such stupidity confirming or showing incompetence, you would not simply present it from the Seym tribune. There was a question of the consequences of this bill. I realize that there is never a possibility of going down to zero, there will always be pollution, and there will always be pollution in this structure. But in countries or cities where these solutions are implemented, pollution levels have fallen from 3 to 5 percentage points. Berlin introduced it as the first 10 years ago, and there were first such gains. However, if we take into account that in Poland the age of vehicles is higher, there are older vehicles, that is how we move, then probably this effect in our towns would be greater. And in conclusion, such a small remark to your PiS Members. I have no doubt that this project will come back. This project will be back on the agenda. In Małopolska, when I was a marshal, I adopted a resolution prohibiting the use of solid fuels in Krakow. PiS was against, the second time he abstained, and at the last resolution for the whole of Małopolska he already voted for, and even said that it was to implement some government solutions. I hope that unlike the part of this room, you just need more time for education, and it's only a pity for the tens of thousands of people who are trying this, this huge pollution that is in our country, they're not going to survive, they're not going to see the moment when we can breathe clean air. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u515	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u516	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, If everything was really so prepared and so perfect, then it had to be introduced two years ago and today everything... [[I wasn't an envoy. You were.]] That's your problem. On the other hand, I regret to say that you have not actually addressed any of the reservations I have raised to the substantive side of the bill. Perhaps this bill will return, I do not deny it, and I do not claim that it will not, but it must certainly return in a very profoundly changed form, as a correct, good law. And you, as an applicant, simply presented a wrong law, a wrong, wrong law, which would certainly not meet the expectations of those who want to achieve the goals you are talking about. And your inability, your inability to do so is guilty of the fact that this case will have to be postponed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u517	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences (prints No. 1307 and 1311). I would like to ask Mr Jack the World to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u518	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, on 23 February, the Committee on Culture and Media discussed a draft resolution on the celebration of the 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences, a resolution tabled on the initiative of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski. After first reading, after considering the text and introducing minor language corrections, the committee unanimously adopted the text of this anniversary resolution and recommended that the High Sejm adopt it. The text can be found in print No 1311. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u519	Thank you very much for the swift and efficient presentation of the report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present his position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u520	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences. The Society has been in existence continuously for 160 years. The statute adopted in February 1857 stated that it was intended to nurture teachings and skills in the Polish language, which was good for the association's main tasks in the first decades of its activity. We know and appreciate that the formation of the society has become an extremely important element in the fight for the preservation of the Polishness of Wielkopolska. The nature of the union emphasized the contemporary motto of the association: claws and beaks. It referred to efforts and methods of fighting for the preservation of Polish culture and science in confrontation with the enemy policy of the German state. The activities of the company were part of the course of organic work of Wielkopolska and were an important factor in the construction of modern Polish society. After three centuries of academic tradition in Poznań, the Society contributed decisively to the rebirth of the Piast Allergy in 1919, the first in the lands of the former acquisition of the Prussian university. And now the company plays an important role. He's concentrating more than 1,000. scientists from all over Poland. It is a place of integration of scientific institutions and interdisciplinary discussion of scientists. We believe that history, tradition and ethos of the Poznań Society of Friends of Science are worthy of commemoration. Working together for the multiplication of Polish scientific achievements and preservation of cultural heritage brought and brings excellent fruit. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports the adoption of this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u521	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Szydłowska will make a statement on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u522	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Wielkopolska and a acquaintance, I am honored to present the position of the Civic Platform Club in relation to the resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences, Sejm No. 1307 and 1311. This year, as my previous speakers mentioned, is the 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Science Friends. Founded in 1857 the company is the oldest continuously existing Polish scientific society, which was an important element of the construction of Polish scientific capital. His outstanding founders, among them August Cieszkowski, Titus Działynski or Hippolith Cegielski, had a beautiful idea that the company would be the most important centre of Polish scientific activity under the Prussian partition. In a clear way, he spoke of it as his founding statute, stating that the purpose of the company is to nurture the teachings and skills in the Polish language. It was thanks to the scientific infrastructure created by PTPN and its initiative that it was possible to establish a life at the beginning of independence, already in 1919, a Polish university in Poznań. The values that the Poznań Society of Friends of Science has brought and brings are invaluable. The company now brings together more than 1 000. scientists, conducts active interdisciplinary activities, organizes conferences and seminars, performs an important role integrating the scientific environment of Poznań and Wielkopolska, among others. by the action of the Wielkopolska cities and districts, or the series of events, prepared on the 210th anniversary of the entry of Józef Wybicki and gen. Jan Henryk Dąbrowski into Poznań, including colourful staging. Poznań Society of Friends of Science has a rich collection of paintings, among others. Matejki and Bacciarelli, archaeological, natural collections, which are made available as deposits in museums. The Society has been running a library with the status of a scientific library since its inception. He owns 15,000. old prints, including 155 incunabuls. These and later books come from, among others. from the collection of Mielżyńskie, Jan Kozmian, August Cieszykowski, Kosiński, Sczaniecki family, Gostyński's Casino. These are just some of the fine resources of the company. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The library has unlisted prints and magazines in the Polish Bibliography of the 19th century, as well as titles that have been preserved in Poland only in PTPN resources. The whole includes more than 340 volumes. The library also has valuable manuscripts, among others. A manuscript by Stanisław Moniuszko or Jerzy Waldorff's legacy. Extensive, rich and unique historical collections.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u523	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u524	...libraries are a beautiful example of a huge Polish cultural heritage, and society is a place to cultivate the best traditions of Poznań organic work, including social and civic engagement. Our Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of the resolution of the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u525	Thank you. Kukiz'15 - Mr Józef Brynus. You're welcome. [[Thank you, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u526	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish lands located in the 19th century under partitions suffered from a shortage of institutions in which Polish science would develop. Especially it was in the area of the Prussian partition, in which already since the first partition of the assassin, all Polish educational and scientific institutions were liquidated. A momentary episode of freedom for Polish science in this area was the inclusion of part of the Prussian admission at the time of the establishment of the Duchy of Warsaw in the influence of the Society of Warsaw's Friends of Sciences, but after Napoleon's defeat in the lands of the Prussian partition the situation became even worse. Therefore, the establishment of the Poznań Society of Science Friends on the initiative of Dr. Kazimierz Szulc and Fr. Franciszek Ksawery Malinowski must be judged extremely highly in scientific but also patriotic terms. It is worth knowing that the company until the establishment of the Krakow Academy of Skills was the most serious scientific organization on Polish lands. The activities of the company included strictly research work in many areas: history, linguistics, medicine or widely understood natural sciences, but also focused on popularization actions and, most importantly, patriotic actions. This effort of the company was organized in honor of outstanding Poles, Adam Mickiewicz and Fryderyk Chopin. On the first occasion of the century his birthday was dedicated to a special meeting with a public reading about his work, and for the same reason the company erected a board with a bust of the composer on its building. Under the conditions of universal terror of the aggressor seeking to eliminate traces of Polishness from public life, these actions must be considered exceptional, and there were many more. Bearing in mind the important role of the society during the partitions, it is not possible to overlook its great role and fruitful activity during the period of independence of the Polish state in 1918 and 1939. On this occasion we raise the initiative to create the University of Poznań, but since 1923 the company has become a very scientific institution, which resulted in the publication of such outstanding works as the letters of Zygmunt Krasiński to the Potocka Dolphin or Tadeusz Grabowski's history of Polish literature. The company reactivated in 1945 despite the unfavorable circumstances of functioning under communist conditions continued to work for the benefit of the Polish people. It must therefore be stated with all responsibility that the Polish Sejm has the basis for a resolution commemorating the year of the establishment of the company to celebrate its activities. Club Kukiz'15 is in favour of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u527	Thank you very much. As regards the statement on behalf of the Modern Club, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski made it in writing. I therefore ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to make a statement on behalf of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u528	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on the report of the cultural committee on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences. It is an honor to me, all the more so as a great Pole. What makes this 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Friends of Science a worthy anniversary worth commemorating by the High House? This is mainly because, as we read in the justification for this resolution, it is the oldest existing scientific society in Poland. In addition, it is worth weighing on the founders of companies such as Hipolit Cegielski, August Cieszykowski as the first president or Tytus Działynski. All three of them are great positivists, who left with their life story a wonderful legacy that could, I think, be drawn from and drawn from today. Finally, this anniversary is worth commemorating because the Poznań Society of Friends of Science was a wonderful historical gesture, such a response to the prohibition of any scientific institution in the German partition. I would go further, using the statement that culture would not survive, would not have survived these social ties in the Western lands of the former Republic of Poland at that time, if it had not been for such organizations as society. In fact, I think that it was the company and the people who formed it that made a significant contribution, in terms of the fact that it was one of the few successful uprisings that exploded, that the Greater Poland Uprising [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was a success. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to declare my full support for this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u529	As there are no questions, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u530	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the point: the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences, 1307 and 1311 prints. The Society of Friends of the Sciences of Poznań - the oldest name of this association - first gathered on 13 February 1857. The founding members were 42, among them the main initiators: Dr. Kazimierz Szulc, Fr. Franciszek Ksawery Malinowski, Titus Działyński. The uprising of PTPN was a Polish response to the policy of the Prussian state, which did not allow the development of national culture, science, where there was no possibility of establishing and operating a Polish university. At the beginning of its activities, the association was primarily humanistic and artistic. But at a rapid pace, he began expanding his scientific fields through the departments where regular scientific work was carried out. The Faculty of Natural Sciences conducted western Poland physiography studies, organized a chemical laboratory, and even the Faculty of Medicine was established. It was thanks to the scientific infrastructure created by PTPN and its initiative that it was possible to establish a life at the beginning of independence, already in 1919, a Polish university in Poznań. During World War II, the library collection was largely dispersed and partially destroyed, the archive was destroyed, the building was devastated. After the war, in 1945, the PTPN Historical Commission resumed its work. Physiographic research has been resumed slowly, publishing, popularizing and library activities have been initiated. Unfortunately, the people's authorities, which did not favour PTPN, caused not only the loss of some of the company's assets, but most importantly, the fall of the social spirit after 1981 and the weakening of the energy of its members. The contribution of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences to the development of not only the Greater Poland, but also the national academic and cultural thought should be without question appreciated. The world's first monument to Adam Mickiewicz, the creation of the Piast Allergy, or later the University of Piast. Adam Mickiewicz, or the creation of a base for the future National Museum in Poznań, is only a few of the long list of merits of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences for Polish national culture. The Modern Posel Club of course supports this and will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the celebration of the 160th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u531	We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 23 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? I don't see it, so I find the list closed. You are welcome, Mrs Catherine Czochar. There isn't. Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u532	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! March 4th is 70th. the anniversary of the acquisition of the Central Pomerania, actually on 4 June, but on 4 March - Koszalin, as a result of the war operation of February and March 1945, by historians called Pomerania, during which Pomerania fought in the composition 2. The Belarusian Front 1. Polish Army Army. High Seym! Today you try to forget this story, and in many cases even change it. I am one of the people who built the monument of Marshal Józef Piłsudski in Koszalin and the monument of the presidents of the pilgrims to the Chełmska Mountain - Lech Kaczyński and Ryszard Kaczorowski. For the same reasons, due to respect for Polish history, I will always be present at the Koszalin monument - we are - we will be, a monument commemorating the sacrifice of Polish soldiers in Pomerania in 1945, a monument removed a few years ago from the main square of the city and moved to the park. I will always be at this monument of Polish glory, hiding inside the urn with the ground from battlefields sprinkled with the blood of Polish soldiers from the Pomorskie Wałe, Złotowa, Mirosławca, Kołobrzeg or Podgajów, where the SS burned 32 of our soldiers alive. I'm not gonna be gone, even if, like last year, I'm gonna be the only public person there. The soldier does not wage a private war - then he is no longer a soldier - but he fights on behalf of his country, which gives him the weapons he respects, loves and whose orders he obeys, especially if this country is Poland, deprived for 123 years of its statehood, recovered in 1918 by the blood and labor of generations of Poles. Marshal Piłsudski once said: "There is truth tough and hard about soldiers. We all have one sister in common who controls our soldier's work. It is death, cutting the scythe of the one on whom God's finger will point. There is no such service other than us, the soldiers. These words should become the motto of all politicians who, regardless of their beliefs, should remember that history is not a seasonal political fashion. We don't want to go back to the time when soldiers were divided into the good ones from Lenino and the bad ones from Monte Cassino. We do not want such freedom, which is to reverse the calculator and create new historical myths. Politicians should remember that a soldier will never fight against the awareness that his actions, bravery, sacrifice will no longer be judged according to the merits of the country to which he serves, the Republic of Poland, but according to seasonal political and party categories. And since the fallen soldiers, we should not demand another sacrifice, a sacrifice for some political reasons unknown to them today. High Seym! Hence, from the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, I would like to ask soldiers fighting in 1945 to make the Western Pomerania Polish. We bow to the shadows of our faithful soldiers, whose way in Pomerania often led through Siberia, the insurgent Warsaw, guerrilla paths, German prisons and Soviet camps. We swear to remember you. The memory of you will survive in our hearts and is a commitment to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u533	Mr Marek Polak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u534	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my messageary statement, I would like to inform you that on the past Saturday, February 18th, I had the honour to attend the report meeting of the Board of Volunteer Fire Service in Inwald. For details, I will add that Inwałd is a charming podgórska village closing within the administrative boundaries of the municipality of Andrychów in the district of Wadowicki. During the discussion at this meeting, both a representative of the Command of the State Fire Department in Andrychów, as well as a representative of the Management Board of the Municipal and Municipal Fire Department in Andrychów, asked me to thank all parliamentarians, as well as representatives of the government for their concern for the development and functioning of fire services presented, among others. adequate funding. On this occasion, there was also great hope that this positive trend would be not only permanent but also growing. Therefore, this is how I implement my commitment to convey these thanks to the ladies and gentlemen of the Republic of Poland, as well as to the senators and members of the Government of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u535	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, another statement, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u536	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In our parliamentary work, there are moments of despoiling, delightful, irritating, and disturbing. I don't want to completely estimate what events and emotions I'm experiencing here. I am meeting with you today to alleviate the frustration and sadness of the current session of the Sejm. In the course of it there was a second reading of the presidential draft law on the National Celebrations of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. The course of discussion and work on the project in the Committee on Culture and Media was satisfactory, as the President's intention to set up a national committee to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining the independence of most participants seems reasonable and reasonable, and also gives the events the highest possible rank. Without getting into the details, I must inform you that the appearances of the two political groups are remarkable and highly unauthorised. I am talking about the speeches of the representatives of the Modern Union and the European Democrats. The key to understanding their speeches is the willingness of these formations to maximize destructive action and express judgments and opinions, which at the beginning are to torpedo all prisoners for the community of the nation's ideas and activities. This time it's the same. Even though it seemed unlikely, their manners of devastating values and common symbols once again made themselves known. I paid my naivety by listening to their outrageous speeches. If I were to analyze them, there might be a reverse effect: you would throw yourself to watch or listen. You're probably gonna do it anyway. Therefore, it is worth asking myself: If I get rid of these toxins, what will they do to me? I think that the experience of many of us in life suggests various folk wisdoms as to how to deal with such a situation. I think we need to stand up for the good. The idea of the President is a community, embraces the openness of all Poles scattered around the world, representing all possible views, attitudes, life experiences. One thing we should all have in common: love for a common homeland. Therefore, assuming a priori that it is a bad initiative, or denying the President the right to submit it, constitutes self-exclusion from the circle of those who want to experience it together. I encourage you from the Modern and European Democrats' Union to review your attitude. I encourage you to abandon the language of venom and malicious speech. As far as the initiative is concerned, you will still be in a lost position. It seems that the nation knows how to behave in such a situation. It's worth taking an example out of him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u537	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club, another statement. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u538	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement will be on the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. I'll start with a quote. If the Lord would allow me to live and act again, I would only desire one thing: that I may show more effectively and fruitfully in the midst of the modern world the beauty and greatness of the mystery of the Church - the sacrament, or sign and instrument of unity of all men - he wrote in 1986 in the will of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. February 27th is the 30th anniversary of the priest's death. He's an extraordinary character. He was born in Silesia, Rybnik, in March 1921 in a large family of Józef Blaclinicki and Maria Miller. He was a student of the Tarno Góra middle school and a Boy Scout. In 1938, he graduated and went to the army. In 1939 he took part in the September campaign. After the surrender, he began his conspiracy. Wanted and captured, is transported to Auschwitz. He survives in the camp for 14 months, nine of which are in the penal company and a month in the bunker. Taken from there to Zabrze and Katowice, he is sentenced to death by beheading. After more than four months, he is pardoned. The sentence was changed to 10 years in prison after the end of the war. In Katowice, Fr. Balnicki, a convict, converts and dedicates his life to the service of Christ. In his will he writes: "Today, on the 44th anniversary of the greatest day of my life, the day of my birth in the prison cell of the BI of Katowice prison, I would like to confess to the glory of God the Father and the Son, and the Holy Spirit with gratitude that in addition to countless other gifts I have received in my life four extraordinary gifts, which I consider to be the greatest in my present ability to discern. It mentions the gift of faith, the gift of the vision of the living Church including the program of life and action, the gift of the Second Vatican Council and its vision of the Church, communio - this action is closed in the charism of the Movement of Light-Life. The third gift is the gift of the Immaculate Community, the Mother of the Church. And the fourth gift is the gift to make ourselves a complete gift. Father Franciszek Blaclinicki is in camps and prisons from 1942 to 1945. In 1945 he returns to the country and joins the Silesian Seminary in Krakow. In 1950 he became a priest. As a vicar, he's already working on a children's retreat. He also actively participates in the work of the secret curia. In the meantime, in Niepokalanów he studies spirituality about. Maximilian Kolby. On his return from Immaculate Poland, he works in the Katowice curia and the Sunday Guest, he appoints the Crusade of Abstinence - a movement of religious and moral renewal. The authorities are shutting down the movement and arresting Fr. Balnicki. The verdict is 13 months in prison suspended for three years. In 1961, Fr. Francis takes up studies at KUL and writes a bachelor's degree in survival and education of children's closed retreats. Returning to his second gift, which he considers to be the most important, he defends his PhD. He's not approved by the Ministry of Education. In protest, Fr. Balnicki resigns from work at KUL and continues to work on the concept of personal theology and post-storial liturgy. In 1963 he returns to the concept of oasis - he introduces 15-day prayer-based retreats. Many good Fr. Francis handed over the youth. Today I have only briefly brought this figure closer to me, which has played a very important role in my life, because oazovic is for the rest of my life. Today, as a member of this movement, I draw him closer and try to encourage the moral renewal that Fr. Francis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u539	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz is absent. Then it is Mr Grzegorz Puda, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u540	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 1966, a retention tank was created on the Sole river near Zywiec. The tank itself, along with the adjacent areas of the Żywiecka Basin and the Small Beskid, has huge, but unfortunately untapped potential. Lake Żywieckie is extremely picturesquely located, along with the neighbouring Lake Międzybrodzki belong to the most visited waters in the Silesian Voivodeship, where the so-called. one-day sailing tourism. The topic of rehabilitation and development of Lake Żywiecki is a subject that has been discussed for a long time. The authorities of all the municipalities of the Żywiecki district and the local Old Town agree that all appropriate measures must be taken to make the lake more attractive, but this requires multi-million investment. The necessary for the development of tourism are the creation of new transport routes, the construction of parking lots, the creation of a bike route around the lake, modern recreational, tourist and sports infrastructure. These works must go hand in hand with the cleaning and deepening of the lake floors, flood protection of the lake, all streams and rivers that are its tributaries, the management of lakes and rivers, and the modernisation of the water supply and sewage and rainwater networks. The Lake Żywieckie has every opportunity to become a model of Swiss lakes with a real pearl. It could successfully attract tourists not only from Poland, but also foreign tourists - from Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and be a stimulating factor for Żywiecczyn. In order to do this, it is necessary to cooperate in obtaining funds between the municipalities and the Żywiecki district and the management of water management, the authorities of the Śląskie Voivodeship, the Minister of Development and the Minister of Environment, which I ask from this point of view and cordially appeal for. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u541	Thank you very much. And the last statement, Catherine Czachora, the Law and Justice Club. [[Chochara.]] I'm sorry, but I think it's late. Chechara, correct, club Law and Justice. It's not because I wanted to turn it, but it's late, so I probably didn't see it properly by reading it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u542	Good. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After the accident, Prime Minister Beata Szydło in Oświęcim on 10 February, the total opposition attacked the government, pointing out that during the time of our government there were still accidents in government cars. On Twitter there appeared aggressive tweets, among others. Saying that the code name of the current government should be the word "cracks." During the PO-PSL regime there were 60 collisions involving the Office of Government Protection cars. However, these events were not of interest to the media and politicians. It's weird, isn't it? Today, during the speech by Minister Zieliński in the Sejm, Poles learned how the BOR functioned during the time of the PO-PSL government. It is impossible to mention all the collisions and accidents of the previous ruling crew, but I will quote Mr Zieliński, and I will mention some of them, the most spectacular ones. On 5 June 2012, in the vicinity of the Russian Buda in Podlasie, where President Bronisław Komorowski had a plot, BOR officers, who were driving the car under the influence of alcohol, crashed a government car on a tree. In December 2014, the presidential limousine collided with a passenger car in Warsaw. The collision occurred before Belvedere. Mercedes led by BOR, who was driven by Bronisław Komorowski, collided with a passenger car. An ambulance was called to the scene because it was necessary to help a child who was travelling in a passenger car. At the beginning of 2015, the District Court for Warsaw-Śródmieście punished singer Natalia Arnal, who was driving the car, with a mandate of PLN 600. The punished woman said the sentence was unfair. In an open letter to President Bronisław Komorowski, the singer wrote that she remained indifferent to human harm, to the suffering of her and her child. According to the singer, the court ruling was an attempt to disclaim the responsibility of Officer BOR, who led the limousine and forced priority. In January 2010, Radosław Sikorski's limousine led by Officer BOR hit a police car. The crash took place after the policy had been dropped off at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As a result of the incident, several police officers were injured, including one hard, and a government car was destroyed. The accident occurred because the government Mercedes entered the intersection from the side road and did not give way to the priority of the car that was driving the main road, which was a police car. Ladies and gentlemen of the country! Why do you think these things didn't break through to the media on purpose and they were very quickly silenced? So the question arises: Who can most care that the incident with Prime Minister Beata Szydło is the topic No.1 in Poland, in a situation where in times of government of PO-PSL similar situations were Cleverly and cleverly silenced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u543	Thank you very much. The last parliamentary statement was made by Catherine Czochar, the Law and Justice Club. We have concluded this by making a statement of our fellow Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! February 23rd this year We celebrate the 95th anniversary of the birthday of Scouts and AK soldiers Stanisław Magura and his twin brother John. On this occasion, I would like to say a few words about the life of these so-called ones. The Grey Private twins who died fighting the occupier. Stanisław and John were born on February 23, 1922 in the Potok. They graduated from the general school in Krosno and then attended the State Secondary School and the General Secondary School. Nicolaus Copernicus in Krosno, where in 1939 they graduated from the first high school class. And although they had different interests - Jan was interested in building airplanes and architecture, Stanisław was considering studying at the Academy of Fine Arts - they were also passionate about working together in ZHP. In the mid-30s, they participated in a scouting rally in Spala. In 1938 they completed the Podharcmaster's course in Folusz. In the same year Stanisław was elected President of the Polish Tourist and Nationalistic Society. Ignacy Łukasiewicz in Krosno. In August 1939, the brothers obtained category B of the glider pilot. They were both very athletic. During the first days of World War II, they served in the military upbuilding unit. Before the Germans entered Krosno, they and their father left for Lviv intending to join the Polish Army. However, when the Soviets entered, they decided to return to Krosn, crossing the illegally filled German and Soviet border posts. There were other fugitives with them then, among them. An official of the city council of Zenon Saturday - a later participant in the shares of the guest house - with his wife and daughters. In December 1939 the brothers took an active part in the action of the Polish Red Cross, which helped Poles displaced from the western lands of Poland. Later, they were both involved in organizing aid in crossing the border for refugees going to the army in France. They began their service in conspiracy at the Secret Military Organization - Jan under pseudo. A hummingbird, then a Pirate, Stanisław pod pseudod. Peacock, then splinter. Then they both got involved with the Grey Troops, taking part in many sabotage-diversity actions. In 1942. Stanisław went to work where he had access to classified documents. He took every opportunity to obtain valuable information. On the night of 5th and 6th August 1943, he participated in a prison robbery in Jasła - an action under the code name "Pension" - which was then assessed as the greatest feat of the resistance movement in southern Poland. For his heroic attitude in this action he was awarded the Cross of Valor. On January 3, 1944, the Gestapo officers arrested the engineer. Louis and Florentine of Madeira with the sons of Ludwik and Zdzisław. The next day they captured the brothers John and Stanisław Magur and Kazimierz Pietruszka. Arab. The arrested were accused of collaborating with Zenon Sobota and contributing to the division of the Jasiel prison. During a cruel investigation, despite the cruel torture of the beasts, the Magur brothers did not break or reveal any secrets. Zenon Saturday tried to rescue the prisoners, unfortunately unsuccessfully. They were deported from Jasła and then registered in the Kraków prison at ul. Montelupi. The mother received from her sons a demand for packages. Sadly, at the beginning of February, there was no trace of the first, and at the end of February, there was no trace of the second brother. John was probably killed in a collective execution of prisoners in the woods near Grębowa. There's no information on how Stanisław died. Their resting places are also unknown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u545	Declaration on the Restoration of the Energy Distribution and Connection Point in Rypin. The time of government of the PO-PSL coalition is not only difficult years for Polish energy, it is also multiplying into the power of difficulties for citizens. Under the motto of modernity and cost cuts, jobs were reduced and power stations were removed, customer service offices were closed, and all help and information were dismissed, giving the already exemplified formula about calling the hotline. How much trouble these decisions have caused for ordinary electricity consumers, long to calculate. The reduction in employment resulted in infrastructure failure, the maintenance of transmission networks was not properly maintained, which will not remain without the consequences of failure. In my parliamentary work, I have once again been able to take part in real action to change this negative trend in energy. A week ago, 17 February, the Energy Distribution and Connection Service Centre in Rypin was restored. During the meeting with local government officials and representatives of ENERGYA, I had the honour to speak on behalf of the Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski and read a letter in which the Minister congratulated the Mayor Paweł Grzybowski on his efforts to ensure that the inhabitants of Rypin and the Rypiński district could explain the electrical issues on the spot. Until recently, with each glitch, they had to go to a distance of about 25 km from Brodnica, resulting in additional costs and delays in repairs. The response time will now be significantly reduced, and in addition about 30 employees will take action on the spot without commuting to work in Brodnica. I would like to point out that the facility in Rypin is one of three reactivated regional connection points of ENERGY Operator, because the activity resumed the facilities in Starogard Gdański and Radziejów. We are therefore facing a positive trend in looking at such an important and indispensable service as the provision of energy, finally from the level of citizens' needs. It may seem that the PO-PSL coalition has acted in the opposite direction, as many of the energy sector's employees have defined. as a preparation of a situation in which ENERGYA could be privatised. This negative attitude is due to thanks to the Minister of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, and at the local level to Mayor Pawł Grzybowski, whom I congratulate on his determination and effect, for the benefit of the inhabitants of Rypin. Thanks to such actions, as noted in the letter addressed to the mayor, Minister, as the only local government in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship and one of only five cities in Poland Rypin won the title of "Energy-friendly" in October last year in a competition organized by the Polish Society for Transmission and Distribution of Electricity. Probably the restoration of the Energy Distribution and Connection Point in Rypin is only the beginning of good decisions, because they stem from the new strategy for the development of the ENERGY Group, whose activities are now to focus on the customer and development of modern energy infrastructure, i.e. what was forgotten for the government of Donald Tusk and Ewa Kopacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u546	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Law and Justice a few days ago surprised us with another draft law that introduced a good change. A good change in quotes, of course. The residents and self-governments from Warsaw and the districts around the capital learned that Mr Sasin from Law and Justice intends to enlarge Warsaw several times by including 33 municipalities neighbouring it. Unfortunately, from the draft law prepared and submitted by the PiS as a parliamentary project, we do not learn any details about the functioning of the capital after the entry into force of the law. Mr Sasina's numerous press conferences only reveal that this is a project that can be changed by consultation for the time being. But why was this project addressed to the Sejm without any consultation? Was it the idea of the ruling party to introduce chaos, which is Jarosław Kaczyński's favourite form of government? As a self-governmentman with many years of experience, I strongly oppose such changes in a quick, unthinkable way and without consulting the locals and locals. The changes proposed by the Law and Justice affect every citizen of Warsaw and the surrounding municipalities. The merger of Warsaw and the surrounding municipalities should be preceded by long-term consultations, local referendums, where residents of individual municipalities would be in favour of joining Warsaw or against joining. In addition, these changes should be preceded by a number of legal studies on the functioning of such a large city, except for the lack of dependence, for example in terms of construction and spatial development, between highly urbanized Warsaw and many agricultural areas, which consist of many municipalities, which according to Mr Sasin's project are to be incorporated into Warsaw. Every Pole, not only residents of interested municipalities, asks himself why PiS wants to enlarge Warsaw several times and why it happens so quickly and without consultation. In my opinion, the answer is very simple. PiS wants to take control of the capital. He cannot do this democratically, as in the present Warsaw, the PiS has no chance of taking over the seat of the city president due to the lack of support. Joining several dozen municipalities in Warsaw, PiS hopes to increase its electorate before the elections for the President of Warsaw. It reminds me of the proposal 11 years ago when PiS introduced the so-called municipal elections in 2006. blocking the letters that would give victory to the PiS-Samoobrona-LPR electoral coalition in these elections. The Poles mostly then bet on blocked PO and PSL lists, not on PiS, Self-Defense and LPR. It's gonna be the same in D.C. now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On February 20th, we celebrated the anniversary of a soldier cursed Anatol Radzivonik ps. Olech, lieutenant of the Polish Army, since 1943 in the National Army, one of the commanders of troops of the anti-communist underground and independence, the last commander of organized structures of the Polish underground of independence on New Zealand. We don't really know when Olech joined the conspiracy. We know for sure that in 1943 he was in charge of one of several conspiracies of the Rat circuit of the AK. He was promoted to lieutenant for his involvement. At the beginning of 1944, he switched conspiracy activities to guerrilla. He took command of the platoon in Second Company 7th Battalion 77. Infantry regiment AK under the command of the famous porch. Jan Piwnik, Ponure. In early 1944 he took command of the platoon in 7th Battalion 77. AK infantry regiment. He fought against Germany, among others. in Mayów Mały and Wielki and near Kowczyk. Together with his unit, he participated in many combat operations against Germany, e.g. in the victory of the liquidation of the German garrison in Jewish on 16 June 1944. At the beginning of July, his battalion set off for Vilnius to take part in an operation under the code name "Ostrzy Gate." The plan was to capture the Vilnius defended by the German garrison before the Soviets entered it. Unfortunately, the operation was accelerated and his squad didn't make it in time. It saved him from being disarmed by the Russians. The German occupation was converted into Soviet, but Olech did not intend to lay down his weapons. Together with his people, he decided to continue fighting on the Ends, confirming the Polishness of these lands. He was waiting for a peace conference, which he assumed would solve the issue of the Kresów in favour of Poland. Unfortunately, the Western Allies already agreed on the issue of the eastern border of Poland at a conference in Tehran in 1943. They did not inform their most faithful ally, namely Poland. In 1945, Olech was the commander of the Ratchczyn and Lida circuits. He also commanded a strong guerrilla branch (in 1945 he was subject to about 800 people). Once it was known that the eastern border of Poland would be based on Curzon's line, its troops began to gradually crumble. The radzivonik gave free rein to his commanding officer. Some of them decided to go to Poland and fight there, many resigned, many died in the NKVD manhunts. Massive attacks on guerrillas, which were, of course, divided into several smaller divisions, began at the beginning of 1949. Many soldiers died, among others. d.o.b. Witold Malen, Gypsy, who was the deputy chief. The noose around Radzivonik's neck was tightening more and more. On 12 May, together with several companions, he was surrounded by several rings of NKVD troops near Raczkowszczyzna. Only three survivors. He died on 12 May 1949 at the Niewish River while trying to break through the ring of another Soviet manhunt. Together with the death of Olecha, there was an end to organized resistance in Grodnoszczyzna. However, many guerrillas fought until the mid-50s. On the back of one of the pictures depicting the guerrillas of Radzivonik there is a inscription: Nothing for itself, everything for the Homeland. It was the motto of the line-up troops that the commander taught to his faithful soldiers. Let us remember this last commander of Grodnoszczyzna, especially during the upcoming National Day of Remembrance, Soldiers of the Cursed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-02-23-sejm-36-2.u548	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 24 February 2017, no later than 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 52]]
