ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Mr Schreiber, Mr Kubov, Mr Andruszkiewicz and Mr King to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Krzysztof Kubów. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Łukasz Schreiber and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I consider the minutes of the 37th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending the Law on repatriation and certain other laws. The project is print number 1378. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - working time on inland waterway vessels, - amending the Law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. Those reports shall be printed in 1342 and 1390 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have also submitted a report on the draft law amending the law on security of mass events. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the committee's report on the draft law amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the other items of the agenda, except that there are three draft amendments to the Nature Conservation Act - and there is also a proposal for the club statements to last 10 minutes. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the state of Polish foreign policy towards the European Union, the strategy for the integration of the Republic of Poland into the euro area and the fulfilment of the obligations resulting from the ratification of the Athens Treaty, which is requested by the Modern Posel Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. The formal proposal was submitted by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 I would like to request a recess, a convention of marshals and a revision of the agenda by deleting from today's 38th session of the Sejm a point: the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. A few words of justification. From the very beginning, the Hospital Network Act has raised huge tensions. Mr Marshal's decision did not make the first reading in the plenary room, but it was addressed to the Health Committee and pushed through at one meeting. Modern Members asked both the Minister of Health and each of the voivodships more than a month ago to provide a list of hospitals that would not be included in the hospital network. We just got some embarrassing answers from the voivods that they sent our letters to the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health, despite the expiry of the deadline, did not respond to our interpellations. Meanwhile, in the draft law which was addressed to today's proceedings, we have a record that this list is to be published in the BIP by 27 March. Ladies and gentlemen, this is less than a week. I cannot imagine working on a second reading if Members do not receive a list of all healthcare providers who will be online or who will not be on the network. You can't do that. Ladies and gentlemen! You know perfectly well that in your environment, this project is also very tense, but it can't be that you leave - honestly speaking, I don't know how much, because I don't think the Senate can handle it, although anything is possible - that next week this list of providers is published in the BIP. It's just impossible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u3	Thank you, sir. I'm declaring a three-minute break. Senior Convention, please come here to the dark living room. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 13 hours 10 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that after the Senior Convention meeting, I have informed the representatives of the clubs of the following situation. Mr Owl's request for the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on healthcare provision - the network of hospitals - has not been fully accepted by the Convention. Therefore, I cannot accept the request to remove the item from the agenda. This is not a vote because this item under the Rules of Procedure is already on the agenda because it was designated to the Bureau of the Sejm and the Convention of Seniors 2 weeks ago; it was also mentioned this morning. Objection two weeks ago, less than two weeks ago, there was no objection. [[But the formal motion, Mr. Marshal, was for a vote. Please vote.]] So the formal conclusion does not apply to this point. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 2.30 p.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 2.30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 15, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 15, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 4:30 p.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 19. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: The future of the European Union at 3 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Public Media - h.m. 13, - Joint meeting of the Dolnośląskie Parliamentary Group, the West Pomeranian Parliamentary Group and the Krkonoše-Israeli Parliamentary Group - at 10 a.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: support for aestheticism - h. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: cooperative rights - h.m. 16.45, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 18. On behalf of the President of the Parliamentary Group, The Intercultural and Interreligious Dialogue of Mr Paweł Skutecki invites you to the opening of the exhibition: "Liban - message of pluralism for the East and the West" - the words of Pope John Paul II as a signpost indicating the direction for the process of credible dialogue between cultures and religions. 12 in the lobby in front of the conference room in the new House of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u5	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of items 1st of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act (Prints Nos 1193 and 1314). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on changes in the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print No 1193. Mr Marshal of the Sejm at its meeting on 8 February 2017, pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for its consideration. The Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 23 February 2017, requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The Commission introduced a supplemental amendment to the title of the Law on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance of 7 September 2007 in view of the introduction of an article in that draft. 2 giving a new wording to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3b point 1 of the Law on Assistance to Persons with Maintenance Allowance as follows: If the decision to consider a maintenance debtor as non-compliance with maintenance obligations becomes final, the competent authority of the debtor shall submit an application for prosecution for the offence referred to in Article. 209 § 1 of the Criminal Code. According to the principles of legislative technique, if only two laws are amended, they should both be mentioned in the title of amending law. The period of vacathio legis was preserved as it was in the original project, i.e. the law shall enter into force 14 days after the publication of the notice. Also all the content of the revision of the article. 209 § 1 of the Penal Code was adopted by the Extraordinary Commission, i.e. this basic form of non-alination offence as defined in Article. 209 § 1 of the Criminal Code, qualified form of § 2, also applications for prosecution of non-alimentation offences may be made by victims, by social assistance authorities or by bodies taking action against a maintenance debtor. And what was the most important of this amendment, § 5 and 6, which refer to the so-called. active grievance of the perpetrator, and deadlines for determining the payment of outstanding maintenance - 30 days in pre-trial proceedings since the first hearing and also 30 days in court proceedings where the court is required to waive the penalty, but there is also an exemption: unless the guilt of the perpetrator and the social harm of the act speak against the withdrawal from the penalty. So there's a new, special premise for a judge's sentence. I ask the High House to adopt the report and to pass this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u7	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. So I'm opening a discussion. And I ask you to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club also of Mr Andrzej Matusowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Sejm Club of Law and Justice, I present the position of the Sejm Club on the revision of the Article. 209 Penal Code, which is non-alination crimes. A few general comments. The government project aims to improve the efficiency of the enforcement of maintenance benefits by eligible persons and to eliminate undesirable phenomena in the form of deliberate repeal of maintenance obligations. Here this purpose in the record of persistence has been eliminated as a mark of the crime. To date, the persistence and inability to satisfy basic life needs in the form of a basic non-alination offence have been eliminated in favour of a more objective criterion in the form of maintenance arrears equivalent to at least three periodic benefits or a delay in the provision other than a period of at least 3 months. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 209 (2) of the Criminal Code introduces a type of qualified non-alination offence. Namely, more severe criminal liability - up to 2 years of imprisonment - will be subject to those who, failing to comply with the maintenance obligation of § Article 1 209 The Penal Code exposes a person entitled to the inability to satisfy basic needs. Here again, I stress that this is a change, it is a departure from previous regulation. This is a qualified figure, which is defined in § 2, i.e. the inability to satisfy basic needs. The amendment raises no greater doubt, even as regards the provisions of an inter-temporal nature - the offence of non-alimentation is a permanent offence, it consists in creating, maintaining a specific criminal effect, thus determining whether the provisions of the old or new law are applicable in the relevant state. 4 § 1 of the Criminal Code, i.e. a law more relative to the perpetrator of the crime should be applied. Added in Article 209 § 5 and 6 of the Penal Code aims to eliminate the criminal effect by paying in full the outstanding maintenance, both during the preparatory and judicial proceedings. In the first case, the perpetrator shall not be punishable if, before the expiry of 30 days from the date of the first interview as a suspect, he has paid in full outstanding maintenance, i.e. the proceedings are terminated and, in the second case, at the stage of court proceedings, the court waives the sentence, unless the perpetrators' faults and the social harm of the act speak against the waiver, the penalty shall apply. This amendment also contributes to the strengthening of subjective rights resulting from the Article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution, which provides for specific State aid to families in financial and social difficulties. I also wanted to emphasise the need for this amendment with a certain statistics, which is also included in the justification for this government project. There are more than 50,000 cases per year in the courts. maintenance judgments, including about a third of the cases, are in the form of a settlement. 612,000. enforcement and maintenance cases were at the end of 2015. 13,000. persons are sentenced to imprisonment for the offence of non-alimentation - this is the data for 2014 - and only 3,700 people were employed on average from those convicted. The debt of maintenance debtors vis-à-vis the maintenance fund amounts to PLN 10.5 billion. The maintenance fund's expenditure amounts to 1.5 billion a year. High Izbo! All this justifies the need to amend this provision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I move that this bill be passed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u9	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Wojciech Wilk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Penal Code Act. I would like to remind you that the proposal proposed by the Ministry of Justice, and in the report these provisions have been maintained, assumes a tightening of penalties against people who have refused to pay alimony. A revised article. 209 of the Penal Code in § 1 says: Whoever evades the maintenance obligation laid down in a judicial decision, a settlement concluded before a court or another body or other agreement, if the total amount resulting from such arrears is equivalent to at least 3 periodic benefits or if the delay in the outstanding non-periodic benefit is at least 3 months, shall be punishable by a fine, a penalty for the limitation of liberty or imprisonment up to one year. In the added § 1a Penalty increases to 2 years if a person obliged to pay alimony exposes a person entitled to an inability to meet the basic needs of his or her life. As I said, the text presented by the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification is the same as the proposals put forward by the government at first reading. There are some doubts about the proposed solutions, I spoke about them at first reading. Currently, more than 3,000 are in detentions and prisons. persons convicted of persistent evasion from the payment of alimony. From the data I have, it's 1.5,000. the persons convicted of the offence for imprisonment are not in prison because of the absence of a place. The question is whether deprivation of liberty actually fulfils its role and is a threat to people who are notoriously not paying alimony. Those in detention for non-payment of the elements are also a double burden on the state budget, namely their arrears are paid by a maintenance fund financed by the State, i.e. taxpayers, and secondly, taxpayers bear the cost of keeping such a person in prison. As I said, the proposed solutions tend to tighten the penalties for abetting alimony. I have doubts as to whether the proposed changes will reduce the phenomenon we are talking about will make maintenance debtors more likely to pay alimony, and that they should pay, of which we do not have any doubts. I think that in the future we should also consider changes to the law, let's call it less repressive, which would make people obliged to pay alimony to do so. Perhaps a change in the criterion for determining the amount of alimony should be considered, setting it on the basis of the net income of a person burdened with alimony rather than an assessment of earning opportunities, as is currently the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u11	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Barbara Chrobak to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I read the project, I wondered who made the article. 209 in the current version. Well, this provision contains a miserable condition of stubbornness. In short, only one of the perpetrators who persistently, in a few months, does not pay for the maintenance of his children, is responsible for the non-alination. Polish courts, led by the Supreme Court, in their case law, considered that persistence could be said if the perpetrator did not pay for the maintenance of children for a period of at least 3 months. At the same time, it appeared from the same case-law that if they put anything, they did not fulfil the signs of persistence. Thus tens of thousands of Polish non-alimentaries with Mr.Matthew Kijowski avoided putting their children on the table, started new families, started new happy lives, knowing that after paying 50 PLN a month, they would avoid criminal liability. This was not difficult even for those earning income. As it is done, we have just been shown by the leader of Polish non-alimentaries, the chairman of the Committee for Democracy Defence. The star of the Polish demonstration took money from the can, but not from herself, but from the company of the new partner. I must, Your Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, study this subject and examine the transcripts of the parliamentary work on the current wording of the article. 209 The Penal Code, because I wouldn't be surprised if the authors of these regulations and this fantastic reason for stubbornness were mostly men. But not all men are lucky to think in these categories. Sometimes the moment comes that the opposition bench should take the word "thank you." Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we thank you on behalf of the Polish children for this project. This bill is aimed at a whole bunch of smart guys who are doing well knowing how to handle the law. It has long been suggested that the act of art. 209 The Penal Code was materialized, and in this direction The amendment is on its way. Up to now, only persistent evasion of maintenance obligations has been punished, leading to the exposure of the person entitled to the inability to meet the basic needs of his or her life. The project proposes that exposure to the basic needs of life by fulfilling the signs of a prohibited act, i.e. non-compliance with maintenance obligations was a qualified type. There will be no interpretation freedom or interpretation difficulties. Not paying alimony is a crime against your own child, stealing it not only from money, but also from many chances. A number of factors affect the low collection of alimony. The main reason for this is the social consent for non-payment of alimony. It is widely accepted that, after paying for work, the employment contract is terminated by agreement of the parties. As a result, the debtor does not bear the costs relating to maintenance obligations and the employer does not pay ZUS contributions by employing an employee in black. In France, parents who avoid paying child support for two months are being punished for two years in prison. The project's gateway for the perpetrators will lead to thousands of non-sanctioners suddenly finding money, and if he doesn't find it, Minister Ziobro will simply put a heavy, gray state electronic surveillance bracelet on them. I am sure that the project will improve the fate of many Polish children robbed on a daily basis by dishonest parents who, although having such opportunities, prefer to spend on something else or for whom work, although not lacking now, is not the greatest priority in life. As parents, we are obliged to maintain children, and children have the right to have a good relationship with both parents. Unfortunately, often courts, when judging alimony, at the same time alienate children in the case of one of the parents, e.g. by establishing contacts once a month. I'll be like a mantra saying, parents, remember, you don't divorce children. You can stop being a wife or a husband, but you never stop being a parent. Speaking of alimony, we often talk about the adult world. We forget that this is also the world of children. The Kukiz Club15 will support the project in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u13	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Ewa Lieder will perform on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u14	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The maintenance debt in Poland is only less than 20%. At the end of December, the National Debt Register informed that the maintenance debt exceeded PLN 10.5 billion. I know it's been said before, but that's what you have to say every time. There are 312 thousand in the database. Unreliable parents, 96% of whom are fathers. On average, they have over 33,000 to give to their children. zł. Similar information is provided by BIG InfoMonitor: 298 thousand. maintenance debtors whose debt amounts to a total of PLN 9.9 billion. Many citizens and citizens are not aware of the scale of this problem. Although the information and education campaign requires funding, it is necessary to raise awareness to the public as to the extent to which this is a major problem and as to the extent to which the current state of affairs is permitted. We very much hope that the proposed changes will, at the very least, contribute a little to raising awareness of the scale of the problem and reducing universal tolerance for non-alination. The highest penalty for non-payment of alimony from the three proposed provisions, i.e. imprisonment until one year, should be imposed on persons who are able to pay alimony but do not wish to fulfil that obligation. There are unfortunately a lot of people in our country, as the practice has shown. We are second from the end of Europe in terms of the effectiveness of child support. If a parent who is obliged to pay alimony does not comply with this obligation, the other parent is charged with 100% responsibility for the child both in terms of care and in terms of providing financial resources. Speaking all the time about the inability to pay child support because of the health problems of the obliged person or employment problems, we must remember that the situation can also happen to a person who takes care of a child on a daily basis who cannot afford to stop raising a child because of a difficult situation in life. The responsibility for the child and the cost of living must be strictly shared between the two parents. To date, the law allowed people obliged to pay child support to pay them at a much lower rate than they were supposed to. A maintenance debt cannot be compared, for example, to a bank debt. It's money to keep a child alive, to provide him with good living conditions before he starts making his own money. It's the duty of every parent. Unfortunately, the state does not help single parents in a difficult situation, e.g. they do not receive 500+. A few months ago, we asked the government what it would do to people who would lose their maintenance fund benefits after raising their minimum wage. This applies to approximately 30% persons who today have the right to collect money from the fund. We've learned that there's no way to raise the income threshold. In 2007, when the maintenance fund was restored, a income threshold was set for receiving a benefit of PLN 725. The Act states that with each increase in minimum wage, the Council of Ministers may increase this threshold, but it has not been used once. Another issue is the sign of exposure to the basic needs of life. This requires clarification so that it is not freely interpreted to the detriment of the child. This project can help to solve the problem, but not fully. In the longer term, the government should look at the demands of NGOs, e.g. The organisation of the "Aliments" are not gifts. These organisations work with the parties on a daily basis in the case of alimony cases and with bailiffs who know the subject from the lining, as well as with the Agreement of Professional Self-Governments and Law Associations. These requests point to the introduction of rules which take into account: the use of the electronic surveillance system, the introduction of a register of burdensome maintenance debtors as a database of information from all bailiffs, information from the register of insolvent debtors and economic information offices, to which persons failing to comply with the maintenance obligation imposed by the court would be sent and who would play a preventive role, the integration of IT systems of law firms into the system of the Social Insurance Institution, the system of cooperation of enforcement bodies with tax offices and ZUS for information on illegally paid work by the maintenance debtor, the interchangeability of the detention penalty for work in places designated by the office under the guarantee of prison, if the debtor fails to comply with this obligation, but also the development of a maintenance table adapted to the Polish realities that we are working on. These are really interesting ideas for which a legal solution could be found in the form of specific rules. The Modern Posel Club will support the project. Although this is a small and imperfect change, [[♪ The bell ♪]] after all, it aims to do what we want, to improve the situation of children with child support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u15	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, please speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I was honored to present our position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print Nos 1193 and 1314. The aim of the project under consideration today is to ensure that the maintenance rights of entitled persons are implemented more effectively. This tool is intended to amend the provision of the Article. 209 The Penal Code provides that a person whose maintenance debt exceeds the sum of three periodic benefits due, most often monthly, will be punishable by fines, imprisonment or imprisonment until the year of imprisonment. A higher sentence, because up to two years in prison, will threaten a person who does not pay alimony, exposes the closest person to the inability to meet the basic needs of life. However, maintenance debtors will have the possibility to avoid penalties if they voluntarily compensate for the backlog before the proceedings are initiated. As today, under the amended legislation, prosecution of a criminal offence set out in the Act will be followed at the request of the victim, a social assistance body or a body taking action against the maintenance debtor. It was also assumed that the debtor who committed the non-alimentation offence would not be punished if, within 30 days of the date of the first interview as a suspect, he paid all outstanding alimony. High Izbo! According to the Institute of Public Affairs, the problem of not paying child support concerns about 1 million children in Poland. The bailiffs run nearly 600,000. procedures for the enforcement of alimony, and the effectiveness of chamber executions is estimated at only less than 20% of cases. However, one cannot ask whether only three months of non-payment is sufficient to punish prison. Perhaps consideration should be given to the possibility of reporting the impossibility of payment of maintenance to the relevant public authorities, e.g. social assistance centres, in order to help a parent with a maintenance obligation. After all, every man can find himself in a difficult situation of life. Does prison punishment solve the problem? It's obvious that an ally in prison is still an unpaid alimony. We are receiving another project, where the conviction that the severity of penalties is intended to solve our social problems has been followed. On the other hand, social organisations, as well as the Ombudsman, make a number of demands for improving the maintenance system, which, unfortunately, the government party does not take into account. As I mentioned, prison sentences prevent a debtor from making money and paying alimony. So why not replace prison sentences with an electronic surveillance penalty in justified cases? The convicted person could continue to carry on his business, which would certainly make it easier for him to settle maintenance claims and correct his mistakes. In prisons, in most cases, this is not possible. Currently, there are only about one quarter of those convicted who have a maintenance obligation. About 13,000. This was 3796 people employed at the end of 2015. Other recommendations made by the social party are the introduction of a maintenance table as a facilitation for the court, which would determine the amount of minimum maintenance depending on the income of the parent and the age of the child. It is also suggested that a child's assistant be appointed, i.e. a person whose task would be solely to take care of the child's interest in divorce and divorce. It is particularly important to strengthen cooperation between institutions, e.g. by automatic transmission of information to ZUS bailiffs, tax office, banks in matters relating to the finances of a non-paying parent. A better circulation of information between state institutions could improve the collection of maintenance claims. It is also worth considering the introduction of a universal maintenance allowance for children whose parents do not pay child support. This solution would shift the problem of enforcing late child support payments from parent-parent relations to parent-state relations. Failure to pay child support would not be a problem for children or their mothers. All responsibility would be borne by the State and the State would prosecute claims on persons who are obliged to pay alimony. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, seeing few, but still, shortcomings, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the relatively poor range of support for families affected by the obligation to provide will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will perform on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Failure to comply with maintenance obligations is a common practice, which unfortunately, through the silent consent of the public and the overly imperfect legal system, has a negative impact on those entitled to receive maintenance more than on the so-called. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all Those who have been subject to maintenance obligations, using existing gaps in Polish legislation, deliberately, effectively and often insolently evade this obligation. In view of how widespread this phenomenon is, they are extremely pleased by the government's actions, the result of which is a procedated bill. The solutions proposed in the revision aim at eliminating the existing interpretation doubts and tightening the law on maintenance arrears. As I said in my previous speech, these changes are necessary and expected. It is worth noting that the solutions put in place concern only persons who evade the maintenance obligation despite having the right opportunities and measures. Thus, there is no question of automation of the system or punishing those who, through random situations of life, are unable to fulfil their obligations. However, I agree with the view that the proposal under discussion today will not ensure full recovery of maintenance obligations. Yes, the idea of imprisonment will certainly bring some slow debtors to order. Under this kind of pressure, they will pay their debts. However, this amendment does not solve the question of people who intentionally prescribe their assets to other family members and hide their income only to avoid paying child support. Preceded regulations need to be introduced As soon as possible, however, they should only be the beginning of changes sealing the entire maintenance system. Action is also needed to change the attitude of the public towards those with maintenance arrears. I find the situations in which such criminals perform important social roles and enjoy this respect to be puriozal. About Free and Solidarni will support the project in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u19	Thank you very much, Member. Five people entered on the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Anyone else want to ask a question and put themselves on the list? I can't see, so I'm closing this list. Question time is one minute. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz club15, will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of maintenance debtors for many years seemed unnoticed by the legislator. Unfortunately, the practice also shows that such individuals could feel almost unpunished. According to the data of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy contained in the Information on the implementation of the Law on Assistance to people entitled to maintenance in 2014, the effectiveness of the actions taken against maintenance debtors amounted to 8,3% and the total expenditure and benefits from the maintenance fund amounted to about PLN 1.5 billion and were about 1,4% higher than the corresponding expenditure in 2013 This means that many so-called. Alimentaries already have considerable debts resulting from failure to perform their duties for many months or years. How does the legislator intend to solve the problem of these very large debts resulting from the multi-month avoidance of alimony payments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u21	Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment refers to actions against the maintenance debtor when the execution of maintenance is ineffective. Minister, would you agree that the purpose of the new regulation is to limit the number of persons entitled to maintenance benefits? For a non-compliance with the maintenance obligation, a sentence of limitation or imprisonment shall be provided for by law. Whether the public service costs of municipalities, prosecutors, etc. will increase in this respect.? Will the proceeds of maintenance payments increase to the State budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u23	Thank you very much, sir. And another question, Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Aliments aren't gifts. As for this, everyone here, I think, we're in agreement. This project is going in the right direction, but it still doesn't eliminate the pathology of the system. The question is for the Prime Minister, for the ministers. There's so much talk about pro-family politics, and meanwhile, it's just patching a hole, because a lot of topics about alimony are still unsolved. Today, our law refuses to give child support to a single parent who earns the lowest national income, because it is 9 PLN too much, because the level of income threshold does not take into account changes in the economy in the last few years. This is ridiculous. Our draft law on this subject was rejected by the votes of the parliamentary majority, which is why I ask: When will the government of this term begin to protect the weakest? When are you going to change the structure of the income threshold so that the maintenance fund can also get to the most in need? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are really talking about a case that should not be debated, because what kind of parents are those who are ducking to take care of their children who are not trying to ensure their future. What kind of example do they set? But also, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the second as if the part that is not being debated here, although it is very important. And the question to the government, to the representatives of the Ministry, should we not also go back to a concept, a concept that has been so often asked to introduce, the environment has asked for this, especially the environment of fathers who are deprived of contact with their children, even though they regularly pay these child support, pay even more. Don't you just go back to the idea of alternate care? We know that this is difficult and requires a different look at the situation, because we have, for example, an example of the last annoying case that one of the judges also [[♪ The bell ♪]] he does not pay for his children, he also demands reimbursement of maintenance costs. Shouldn't we also look at the issue of alternate care? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u27	Thank you. And Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have questions. How will electronic supervision be carried out against non-alignants, those who do not pay child support? And how will the Ministry of Justice check whether a person is working? As we know from life, many avoid, do in black in the gray area, without paying to pay, as you know all over the country, do not pay, say that the family supports him, and he should support his children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club, will ask the final question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2006 and 2007, I had the honour of being the representative of the applicants and carrying out this maintenance fund law in a subcommittee composed of four members of the Sejm committees. At the last minute we were able to accept it, then there was an annual vacatio legis. I must say, in retrospect, judging this law and looking at it, that the downloadability, which is low, is still higher than before the introduction of this law and it seems that one thing has still not functioned sufficiently and properly. I'm thinking public works. At the time, they were thinking, looking for solutions to run public works for those people who allegedly or actually they do not have the means to pay alimony, and in this way they could be given this opportunity. In fact, there was also a discussion about the thresholds at that time. I'm not hiding, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the Ministry of Finance threatened to raise the thresholds for the risk of Members of the Law and Justice, and then we raised that threshold. After the law entered into force, already for Minister Rostowski, it turned out that the Ministry of Finance was too careful and the world did not collapse, even the money was in excess. Hence, it may be worthwhile to actually re-evaluate whether these thresholds could not be slightly raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u31	Thank you very much. And please - because this is the last question, and so we have exhausted the list - for the answer of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions. They're all addressed to the government, but they're not all addressed to the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, it is difficult for me, as a representative of this particular section of government, to respond as precisely as you might want an answer. As far as I can tell, I will, of course, try to give you that answer. Mr Butterwski's question. We have in this revised bill an incentive to pay back, in the Penal Code. This is the new thing from § Articles 5 and 6 209 Penal Code. Therefore, we assume that this will be some way of dealing with maintenance arrears, indeed too high, because here there will be a tough threat, without any indication of persistence it will be known that if someone does not repay this debt within a 30-day period, they may be sentenced to imprisonment. Systemic incentives are, of course, a broader issue beyond the possibilities of the Ministry of Justice. Probably such a discussion before us, within the framework of the government, probably also the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy would be better addressed to such questions than the Ministry of Justice, which, of course, under judicial and code law is a leading resort and, of course, is not such a resort within the framework of the social welfare system. Mr Sitarski's question about the possible increase in costs, what will also happen on the prosecutor's side in connection with the entry into force of the law. I don't think there's a threat like that. The penalty is the same all the time. We don't change that sanction. This is a sanction of up to 2 years of imprisonment as a top sanction in the event of a non-alimentation offence. Therefore, we do not assume that there will be any sudden growth here. Moreover, we assume that this possibility, which I have already mentioned, from § 5 and 6, i.e. repayment of the debt and thus avoiding criminal liability, will cause that de facto beyond this first stage, i.e. the call of a suspect not paying maintenance claims by the prosecutor, it will be effective in many cases and therefore further prosecutions will not take place, because payment will take place, and even more so judicial proceedings will not be initiated, which, of course, you know, generates certain costs on the part of the Treasury. Of course, there are no grounds in this bill to claim that it will affect the limitation of the number of entitlement to maintenance benefits, because the question of who is entitled, to what extent the conditions are, is a matter governed by the Family and Care Code and we of the Family and Care Code are not affected by this law in any way. It is a law amending one provision from the Penal Code and it is probably very clear. There is a second amendment, by the way, but rather of a minor, legislative nature. Mrs Augustynowska's question is of course an important and important question, but the question which is not addressed properly is not the Minister of Justice, because the Minister of Justice is not responsible for social policy, the family policy of the Polish state. Therefore, the question of the thresholds for helping people entitled to maintenance from the maintenance fund is not a question for the Minister of Justice, so it is difficult for me to answer whether any work in the competent ministry is taking place here. As regards Mr Kaleta's question, there is indeed some work going on at the Ministry of Justice, but they are rather analytical work, and therefore it is difficult to say what the effects will end. This is about the work on the Family and Care Code, which is also about the issue of transversal care. I assume that this year we will present to the High House a rather large proposal for changes to the family and caring code, perhaps also changes in this area, but too early now to talk about it. Today we have a draft of the Penal Code ready and it is very pleased that the Ministry of Justice has actually spoken positively about this government proposal. Mr Rometsky's question about electronic surveillance. Electronic surveillance is used on a general basis. These conditions, which are taken into account by the Penitentiary Court, are a little out of the way of this particular crime, because electronic supervision concerns all crimes, not only non-alimentation offences, but of course the circumstances mentioned by the Member in the course of the decision-making process are probably and will be taken into account. I would stress that, in the context of the threat of punishment in the case of this offence, for up to 2 years imprisonment, there is a significant change also from the point of view of the possibility of using an electronic surveillance system, rings. In terms of intent, we're going to... Only in the case of a sentence of imprisonment up to 1 year, such a solution in the form of such a way of executing a sentence shall be admissible. We intend to present a project in a short time, in which we will increase this punishment to a year and a half. In general, it is a very good solution not so much for the state budget - although this is also, because it is cheaper - but it is also a good solution for those convicted because of non-alimentation, because it allows the performance of this obligation, i.e. work, earnings and therefore the payment of alimony to entitled persons. And the last question, Mr Latos, about public works is also a little beyond the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. It is obvious that this is an idea that goes in the right direction, because any idea that allows you to reduce the scale of non-alimentation, or the criminal one, or the one simply resulting from other circumstances, but non-criminal, is a good solution. Here, the cooperation of several resorts would probably be required and I think she will. This is another way of increasing the possibility of actually enforcing the penalty of restrictions on freedom and the payment of debts, including maintenance claims, which the government depends on. So that work on this is ahead of us. I stress that both increasing the effectiveness and the possibility of using electronic surveillance as a way of executing imprisonment - this allows for work and allows for payment of maintenance claims - as well as already existing solutions in the Enforcement Penal Code, which... If we already have so-called. Alimentaries in a prison, this Penal Code requires that priority be given to those persons who should first be given the opportunity to work in a penitentiary and thus pay maintenance claims. I also remind you that this government has presented projects that aim to increase the number of people who work in prisons and therefore earn, therefore paying maintenance payments, and this is something that will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u33	Thank you very much. And yet the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, also expressed his wish to address the questions of the Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As rapporteur for the committee, I wanted to refer to two speeches. With regard to the speech of the representative of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, who in his speech argued that there was a threat of more severe criminal liability here, there is no such thing. Previous article. 209 § 1 of the Penal Code provided for a penalty of up to 2 years. Here we maintain such a threat, but in a qualified form, when we talk about the content of the article. 209 § 2 of the Criminal Code, i.e. if there is an additional reason for not being able to meet the basic needs of life, while in § 1 of this type of basic crime it is a relaxation, that is, a relaxation of up to 1 year imprisonment. And in this connection I also wanted to refer to the speech of the representative of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, who said that there is no possibility of imprisonment in the electronic surveillance system. This is the possibility of an amendment and an article. 209 § 1 of the Criminal Code. It can now also be used in the electronic surveillance system. I would like to thank all the clubs and Circle of the Free and Solidarni for supporting this bill, which is an example of a good change in the Penal Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u35	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (prints Nos 1231 and 1343). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee. You're the one who's gonna work today, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications concerning the amendment of the Penal Code and certain other laws, i.e. print No 1231, the report is included in print No 1343. The Commission, after considering the draft law at its meetings on 9 February, was a permanent subcommittee meeting on amendments to the Criminal Code, and the Extraordinary Commission on 8 March 2017, requests that this draft be adopted. The Commission has made amendments. The amendment concerns Article. 42 § 1 of the Criminal Code, this is the addition of § 1a as follows: The Court of First Instance shall prohibit the driving of any motor vehicle in the event of conviction for the offence referred to in Article. 178 or Article. 180a and in the case of Article. 244 if the act of the perpetrator was not to comply with the driving ban. The purpose of this amendment was to harmonise the rules on mandatory criminal sanctions in the form of a ban on all motor vehicles. In the current proposal, the obligation to give a ruling on this prohibition concerned the perpetrators of the offences of failing to comply with the decision of the competent authority to withdraw the right to drive, the criminalisation of that act was in Article. 180a of the Criminal Code, and so-called. escape from the road control authority, Article. 178b Criminal Code. However, it should be noted that by imposing an obligation to impose such a prohibition on perpetrators who violated the so-called. administrative ban on driving, consideration must be given to the criminal situation of perpetrators who have not complied with the prohibition on driving by a court. Such behaviour shall be validated by Article. 244 The Penal Code and the perpetrators who violated this criminal ban are not required to rule on driving bans from an axiological point of view. The prohibition on driving by courts refers to serious breaches of safety and traffic order, which are generally criminal. It is therefore not justified in the established hierarchy of values to rule on a mandatory criminal measure in the event of the perpetrator's failure to comply with the administrative decision to withdraw powers. In turn the omission of this decision in the event of non-compliance with a criminal measure of the same content as that decided by the court... And that's why we have an exemption from the article in this amendment. 244 No driving bans. I would like to remind you that in this article there are many violations of prohibitions and orders. Another amendment concerns the provision which has been introduced, namely the Article. 3th Act, which states that in the Code of Criminal Procedure in Article. 213 po § 1a the following paragraph shall be added: 1b as follows: In the land traffic crime proceedings referred to in Chapter XXI of the Criminal Code, information should also be obtained from the central driver records and from the records of drivers violating police traffic regulations concerning the defendant. If a period of 6 months has elapsed since this information has been drawn up, it shall be re-established. The introduction of a transitional provision shall be laid down in Article. 7, after the adoption of the report of the Permanent Sub-Committee and the Extraordinary Commission meeting of 8 March this year: on the matters referred to in Article. 3 This Act, initiated and not completed by the date of its entry into force, shall apply the provisions of the Act as amended by Article. 3, as amended by this Act. It is an obligation for the court to check, because sometimes these proceedings take longer than 6 months, it is a matter of asking the court to ask the CEPiK for information as to whether there was a suspected person or already accused at the stage of the judicial proceedings in the field of road traffic law. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of Article. Point 5, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, and let me remind you that this article deals with changes to the forms of criminal mandates and the allocation of the series and numbers of criminal mandates generated by the ICT system. Here, of course, there must be time to prepare these forms. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will be responsible for this. public finances. Maybe I will give a brief indication of what solutions in this project raised doubts or differing legal views. First of all, it is a change in the case of a localised or factual situation located in the Article. 188b validating the behaviour of persons who, despite being issued by means of audible and light signals by a person authorized to control traffic, a moving vehicle or on a ship or an air command to stop a mechanical vehicle, do not stop the vehicle immediately and continue driving. I would like to stress here that such behaviour has so far been a misdemeanor. Currently, due to the large number of such situations - in public space there was information regarding non-compliance with the audible signals of those persons who serve to control traffic, escapes often ended with accidents, destruction of property, destruction of roadside stops, fences, it sometimes ended with severe damage to the body of other road users, and unfortunately also fatal cases - the penalization of such behaviour seems to be most justified. There is a question of this kind - which should be pointed out - that this crime can only be committed on purpose. It's not like you're perverting an involuntary crime, i.e. due to recklessness or negligence, that someone, for example. for technical reasons, he could not stop the vehicle immediately and continued driving. I would also like to draw attention to the conjunction that these two signals - sound and light - must occur together. If only one is used, the conditions shall not be met, the marks in Article. 178b. There was also doubt about the change in the article. 2 concerning the limitation period under the Code of Offences. To date, the term has been measured in such a way that the criminality of the offence has ceased if a year has been counted since it was committed. This could have been extended to 2 years, but sometimes the period of initiation began just before the expiry of the limitation period and those who were guilty used it in different ways, extending the procedure, and often already at the stage of the appeal proceedings, those offences were statute-barred and the courts of appeal at times, when the proceedings at first instance lasted longer, had to issue decisions dying. This amendment is now changing, the course is counted on the initiation of proceedings and then the criminality ceases 2 years after the end of that period. This is done so that in these cases it is possible to give substantive decisions, not to waive proceedings as a result of limitation. Thank you very much for your attention and I ask the High House to adopt the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u37	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Waldemar Buda to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u38	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft amendment to the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print no. 1231. I would not like to repeat the analysis and presentation of the draft from its first reading and the position of the Law and Justice Club in its entirety in this respect, and I would not like to present the report that you presented to the previous speaker. I would, of course, like to maintain unconditional support for this project from the Law and Justice Club, because it concerns a really important area of road safety for all of us and any changes that are intended to improve this safety, to cause less crime in this area, should be considered to be appropriate and should be considered as a direction set in a good cause. The tightening of liability in certain types of crime, the making of certain offences, as well as the extension of the limitation period in criminal proceedings is undoubtedly this direction. Surely the increased responsibility and these upper risks of responsibility in these cases will have a preventive effect and this will in many cases deter such crimes from being committed, while also affecting the level of the assumed responsibility. As for the statute of limitations, it is obvious that in many cases... Today we had such examples, I myself, as legal counsel, met with such requests of those who were applied for punishment, so as to prolong the proceedings and not ultimately win them, because the chances of doing so were really small. Unfortunately, it was common practice. I hope that the extension of this deadline will result in, and will not prolong, the lack of justification and purpose of such a procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u39	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform Club. Michael Szczerba will be performing on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u40	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are discussing the committee's report on amending the Criminal Code on Criminal Crimes against Security in Communication and Criminal Response to Traffic Crimes, when the perpetrator was intoxicated, drugged or fled the scene. This change is also about the sentence of imprisonment by a court of no less than two years if the result of an accident is the death of another person or a serious injury to his or her health. Ladies and gentlemen! These laws, and this I spoke about at first reading, influence the formation of criminal sanctions for crimes, but in our view, it is the courts who, through their discretion, have the opportunity to freely assess the circumstances of a particular case and to formulate a penalty appropriate to the degree of social harm to a particular act. The National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Bar Council draw attention to this issue. This is of course important, but I have the impression that recently the public is appalled primarily by the crimes against security in communications and events that have occurred in recent times. We all remember the accident involving Minister Antoni Macierewicz and his government column during the journey between Toruń and Warsaw. The Civic Platform on this issue has presented its parliamentary initiative on the elimination of this type of situation, scandalous situations, when the Constitutional Minister abuses his/her powers by including his/her column, his/her car into privileged cars in situations that are absolutely inadequate and should raise our opposition. We therefore propose to use and treat as cars privileged exclusively cars of the President of the Republic of Poland and the President of the Council of Ministers. Constitutional ministers should have the same status as all other road users. This is the first case. The second point that I would like to address is also the case that will be dealt with today's programme, which will be noted at 7:50 p.m. on TVN24. I would like to draw attention to the letter sent by Prime Minister Beata Szydło to Mr Sebastian K., driver of seicinto. These words were: I decided to address you directly in this letter because of the emotions that arose around the event that we attended on February 10 - the words of the head of government. I understand that, subconsciously, you may be afraid that, in connection with my function in the proceedings, we will not be treated equally. I'm also writing to you to assure you that it's on my part to expect this case to be treated like any other incident. All parties in the proceedings have the same rights and obligations, and as citizens before the judicial authorities, we are equal. The procedure is underway and I am convinced that it will be transparent and reliable. These are the words of the Prime Minister. And what are the facts, ladies and gentlemen? The facts are completely different from the Prime Minister's declaration and from her expectations regarding an objective and transparent explanation of the reasons. The prosecution's actions on this matter are not in line with the expectations of the Prime Minister. Even before the assembly and analysis of the full evidence, including obtaining the opinion of experts in the reconstruction of road accidents, the investigators decided to lay a plea against causing the accident leading to the fiat seicento. The charge was actually only based on the explanations of the BOR officers. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that we must be very careful and we must continue to monitor everything that is happening in the state, all that is happening in the prosecutor's office, how the citizen is treated differently than the politician, the politician of the governing party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As usual, the idea is good, worse with execution. It is true that the title concerns amendments to the Penal Code, but it also applies to the Code of Offences. This is precisely what we have already raised in the first speech, after first reading: an extension of the limitation period. Well, I wanted to ask you how this applies to PiS's plans to bring peace judges, because since it is the intention of bringing peace judges, I do not see any reason to prolong this period, especially since - and this should be emphasised - the citizen is in a lost position in the procedure of the Code of Offences in advance, because the law enforcement authorities, especially the police, are here as a party, and at the same time a witness. And I can say that my personal experience, as well as the experience of the association's activities, show that the behaviour of law enforcement agencies is very different - with regard to the citizen - and that is usually true to them. Really a citizen in the criminal code procedure... In fact, it's a hopeless case to prove its innocence. The extension of this period even encourages law enforcement authorities to extend proceedings and drag people to courts, so we will not support this project in this regard. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that the project itself is going in the right direction: tightening the penalties for crimes, particularly those committed under the influence of alcohol. Nevertheless, we cannot accept this, and I do not agree with the rapporteur that the wording of the article. 178b of the Penal Code follows... It is precisely about stopping the vehicle immediately or continuing to drive and about what is meant by the so-called. Intentional crime. Well, this provision, of course, I agree, will be a prudent provision, but it can also be abused in order to intimidate people, as well as to stay in places where people cannot be stopped because there is danger. That's absolutely not a rule. Therefore, this adjustment could have been made. But you will not make any correction: you simply have to fight, give as you have given, and ask for this act to be passed. We will not support this project as Kukiz.15 above all because of these two reservations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u43	Thank you very much. And Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u44	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 1343. As indicated by the justification of the project, the main objective of the proposal is to increase road safety by increasing the effectiveness of the prosecution of certain offences and traffic offences. The project assumes among others.: recognition as a crime of escape from a traffic-control chase carried out by a person, tightening of criminal sanctions in the event of an accident resulting in death or serious injury to the body, the perpetrator of which is intoxicated or under the influence of an intoxicating agent or fugitive from the scene, tightening of criminal sanctions in the event of driving after the court has issued a ban on the driving of those vehicles or extending the limitation period for criminal offences. The doubts raised during the work of both the subcommittee and the committees concerning the Article should be divided. 178b Criminal Code introducing a new type of criminal offence consisting only of the failure to comply with the recommendation of a person authorized to control traffic. Thus, the criminality of such an act is to take place regardless of the mode of driving, the conditions of the road or the occurrence of a safety risk in road traffic. There is no doubt that the changes made to the Penal Code are primarily populist. These are changes for which the sole purpose is to increase the criminality of road traffic by tightening criminal repression. Projectors assume that the more severe the punishment, the more effective it is. This is incompatible with the principle of rational punishment. You want to solve security problems on Polish roads only by intimidating citizens, potential perpetrators, with the dimension of penalties. However, there is no action by the government to prevent and introduce solutions to improve road safety. At the same time, you introduce a mandatory judgment by the courts of a criminal measure in the form of a ban on driving any motor vehicle in the cases referred to in Article. 178b or Article. 180a. This significantly interferes with the scope of the judicial authority, which may lead to a reduction in the possibility of a free assessment of the circumstances of the case and the extent of the penalty appropriate to the degree of social harm to the act. The Modern Posel Club therefore hopes that, in addition to criminal measures, the government will also take preventive measures to increase road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws contained in print Nos 1231 and 1343. The aim of this project is to reduce the number of road accidents caused by drivers of vehicles under the influence of alcohol, drugs, as well as those fleeing from the police, recidivists and the perpetrators of the most serious accidents resulting in death or serious injury. To this end, the projecters assume a tightening of criminal measures against those who commit these crimes. The goal is undoubtedly, I think we will agree with this in the great majority in this House, very noble, it is necessary. Indeed, in recent years cases where a drunken or drugged driver has avoided punishment or that penalty has been quite disproportionate to the damage he has caused, especially in those situations where the loss of life, serious injury to health, has not been so appalled, but, above all, has affected the public's opinion in a very negative way, without invoking respect, without preventing similar behaviours of other drivers. Nevertheless, I will not be too original here, because I will share the concerns already expressed by the previous speakers and with the Modern Club and the Kukiz Club15, but I think that also by the Platform representative, whether this harshness of punishment is all that can be done, to relatively quickly these data that are, and this state of affairs is just a little bit encouraging in the social perception to similar behaviors, or at least not acting against similar behaviour to shorten. There are two fundamental areas that, I think, should be taken into account at least in parallel with the tightening of penalties, which should be followed in parallel. This first area is a prevention that seems to be beginning to give way to other activities in recent times. Anything to say in the past has been very effective in information campaigns, police activities in the field of education, widely understood promotion of countering certain behaviours, and that is now not seen. It's too bad you don't talk about it so much. The second area is infrastructure, and this is understood very widely, not only in terms of new, safer roads, but also a number of activities accompanying road traffic, and affecting the improvement of this traffic, to improve safety. This may not be within the scope of this project, but it is all the more surprising to decide when it comes to selecting projects for the extension of national roads and dedicating funds precisely where this traffic is relatively small, where there are few risks on the road. We grieve as a club The Polish People's Party that we are so narrowly addressing the problem of improving safety, reducing the number of fatal accidents, that just sanctions and raising the level of penalties or threats, and there are no other actions that would accompany it. Our support depends on the shape of this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What he's gonna do in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u47	Thank you very much. Five people entered on the list of Members wishing to ask questions. Would any of you like to join us? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time is 1 minute. Back to the speeches on behalf of clubs and circles: the speech on behalf of the Free and Solidarni was submitted by Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan in writing. So we approach the questions. The first question will be asked by Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15. I remind you, one minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If we are talking about tightening up the law against drivers who commit offences, it is difficult not to mention here the citizens' Kukiz project15 on road law and tabled by Mr Szramka. Unfortunately, it was rejected. Why? I don't find rational reasons here, but it doesn't matter. We see a strong tendency in this project to tighten up the law, but the strict law alone is not enough when case law is limping. Let us ask ourselves whether it is not more important to improve the judicial procedure than to raise penalties, because it is because of its chronicity that punishment is a farce. In our legislation, we actually focus only on punishing the perpetrators of offences, while victims of deductions fight for symbolic damages for years. What a question. Does the legislator have an analysis of statistics from other Western countries that would confirm a decrease in the number of similar events due to the increase in the penalty for perpetrators? If so, what correlation can we speak of? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Recently, we have often heard of driving despite a previous ban. Traffic accidents occur in these cases. Sometimes it happens under the influence of alcoholic beverages. I'd like to ask you a question. Will the proposed legal changes limit the number of such offences? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to start with another question. And I would ask you to answer all my questions in writing. The first point is that of Mr PSL. I ask you to write down what the Platform and PSL government has done for eight years to solve the problems we are talking about today. The next issue concerns the causes of accidents. In addition to alcohol and drugs, let's say, there are also reasons such as excessive speed and young drivers, young and inexperienced drivers. I would like to ask to know whether, first of all, the solutions you are applying here have been consulted, compared with those adopted in other European countries and whether they have actually caused a decrease in the number of accidents, especially those with fatal consequences. The last issue concerns young drivers, i.e. the idea you have for driving license courses that would solve problems related to so-called. WORDs for today, and two fewer accidents with fatal outcome. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u53	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow will ask another question, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The data of the Police Headquarters on the number of accidents and their consequences in 2006 and 2015 - this is also the answer to the Member's question - clearly indicate that the situation on Polish roads is improving. In 2015, the number of accidents was nearly half as low as in 2016, the number of deaths decreased by more than half compared to 2016. Of course, these are the figures that show improvement, but we still have a lot to do, especially in comparison with the countries of the European Union, where the situation is much better in this respect. I would like to ask you about a new crime, which concerns the regulations that have been introduced, concerning the escape from an officer's pursuit of a traffic control authority. Isn't this punishment too restrictive, given the different situations that can happen on Polish roads? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u55	Thank you very much. And Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz club15, will ask the last question in this part. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the committee's report, in which Members introduce inter alia. amendment to the Code of Offences. It is specifically about chapter 5, the title of which is the statute of limitations, the execution of penalties and the forfeiture of punishment. The current wording of the article. 45 § 1 is the following: The criminality of the offence shall cease if one year has elapsed since it was committed. If proceedings have been initiated during that period, the criminality of the offence shall cease within two years of the act being committed. The Commission proposes that the criminality of the offence should cease two years after the end of that period. My question is: Does this mean that, in the long proceedings of a criminal offence, even if one of the parties lodges a complaint about the length of proceedings, the penalty for a criminal offence can be determined practically infinity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u57	And we'll ask for an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Michael Wójcik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u58	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me answer all the doubts that you have raised, although I do not understand, I will honestly say some questions, as well as some questions, as with Mr Piotr Pyzik's question, but it seems to me that another ministry is appropriate in this regard. We as the Ministry of Justice, to answer this question, as the Ministry of Justice, are focusing only on a certain area that remains in our jurisdiction. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska asks about the possibility of reducing the number of accidents by requiring a ban on driving. What I'm trying to say is that there's a rule in the Penal Code, that's an article. 180a, which has recently been introduced, which allows - only allows, does not oblige the court - mandatory withdrawal of powers. And let me give you an example, 2015: there are a lot of these types of situations where the administrative ban on driving has been violated or, in fact, the withdrawal of administrative powers is involved in Article. 180a. There are 1,400 cases, and suddenly it turns out that the court, having the possibility to decide a criminal measure, only in four cases decides to do so. There are 1,400 cases like this. I've already translated it in committee and it's worth taking some time to do so, a little bit more, because it's important when it comes to art. 180a. This concerns a situation where, for example, Someone in a built-up area exceeds 50 km, has a driver's license taken away, the police stop him for the first time, but this person gets caught by the police for the second time. So, for the first time, she has her driver's license taken away for three months, she gets caught for the second time, and she's taken away her driver's license, she's withdrawn for the next three months, which is up to six months. But this person, going on, gets caught for the third time and there's an administrative decision to withdraw his rights. And in fact, this person gets caught for the fourth time, and it's an art. 180a. For 1,400 such cases, in four cases, the court decided to apply a criminal measure in the form of a revocation of the driving ban ruling - in four. So I think it's pretty important. That's one thing. The second is Mr Piotr Pyzik's question. It's about data from the past years. We've got this data from the last few years. This is also the answer to the questions of many people who asked why we are really doing this, why we are sharpening it. It is worth using certain data here in the Chamber of the Sejm. In 2015, almost 33,000 police reported to the police. road accidents on public roads, in residential areas, in traffic areas - 33 000. As a result of these road accidents almost 3,000. people were killed - 3 000. There were almost 40,000 people injured. people, severely injured over 11 thousand. persons. That's the kind of data we're talking about. Of course, we are ready to provide you with these figures, which relate to previous years, because you asked for 2013 and 2014. By the way, with regard to the question by Ewa Tomaszewska, I would like to say that the number of people whose driving rights were withdrawn was over 60 thousand in 2013, over 66 thousand in 2014, over 64 thousand in 2015. These are intimidating numbers. [[And yet they drive?]] And they're driving. Regarding the answer to Mr Piotr Pyzik's question: consultations were held with the Ministry of Home Affairs. On the other hand, to answer his question whether the question of one of the people, Mr Maciej Masłowski, asking whether we have conducted research in the context of other countries: we have not carried out. We have these statistics from other countries. We would have to conduct directional research, answering your question closely here, but Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nine people are killed in Poland for 100 accidents, and in Germany one person is killed in Austria. And that's, I think, a good answer to that question. Of course, we can provide detailed data, but just go outside the village to see what the driving culture of Polish drivers is like today. We're not talking about all the cases. We are talking about particularly extreme cases, a situation where, for example, someone is in a state of drunkenness, i.e. he has 0,5 and 1 and 1,5 and 2 and goes on the road and poses a fatal danger for all of us, for the state sitting at the gallery, for the youth, for all of us. If there is a situation in which a person is intoxicated and causes an accident resulting in the death of another person or a serious injury to his or her health, the institution of conditional suspension of the penalty shall be applied in 30% of the decisions. 30% These people aren't in prison at all, and that's where they're supposed to be. We're talking about cases like this. Is that fair? It's not fair. Our system just doesn't work well, of course, in my opinion. The question of sharpening the penalties. Among other things, Mr Maciej Masłowski asked this question. The issue of the application of this article, a new provision providing for a criminal offence if someone does not stop for control. Indeed, today, if someone does not stop for control and escapes, enters the city, poses a huge threat to everyone moving in traffic, but not only other people, it is such a person, running away - everyone can look into the newspaper, to the media, such cases are every day, the police have a problem with it - responsible for the misdemeanor. Why should it be a crime, and why should it be punished? Because there's an art. 160 § 2, qualified type: exposure to danger. If the perpetrator has an obligation to take care of the person in danger, he or she shall be punishable by imprisonment within the same limits, from 3 months to 5 years. We're comparing it. This recipe, this sanction in my opinion, is as appropriate as possible. Mrs Zofia Czernow asked what are the numbers, whether the number of accidents is really decreasing. This is true, but what I said earlier, the question of the number of people who are dying on Polish roads, and the comparison, as I gave an example, with Germany or Austria, is probably enough reason to consider whether the Polish system works well. I want to tell you why this project was created. I will also say this tomorrow because I am ready for strong questions from Members. It was created under the influence of an event that took place in Warsaw in Prague, where a 14-year-old girl was killed. Someone who got her into this situation, hit her on the runway, and she died, is a person who shouldn't be in the car. Why was she in jail? Because the courts didn't really have consistent information between them, they didn't have full information about the person who stood before different courts and was responsible for the various situations she had committed. That person shouldn't be in that car. Why? Because it's really just an obligation to pull information from the criminal record, from the KRK. But is that the answer to who we're dealing with? If the court determines who is in court, what he has done, it must examine what his past is. There aren't many courts asking for other information. We say, no more. Information from various records, different data. We want to know how many points he had in the past, whether he had withdrawn authority through an administrative decision. It's not just KRK. This is important. And that's the situation where that person shouldn't be in that car under any circumstances. As far as Mr. Krzysztof Sitarski is concerned, I did not fully understand the question, I will be honest with you, that question. We extend the limitation period for offences. I'll be honest with you why. We don't do it for the courts, we do it for the people. And it's not even about the numbers of how much of the offenses are statute-barred, but it can be a situation like the Frog case I was talking about - 81 statute-of-law offenses. Everyone was excited, he was running from the police all over Poland, the public was watching a person play with the police as a matter of fact. Why was there a statute of limitations? Because in fact, this time is very short to settle this kind of thing. I would like to say that there is often the initiation of proceedings for some provision of the Penal Code, and then there is a change of qualification and the court is unable to fit in. We're doing this for us and for the judges, too. And you can't say, in my opinion, that this isn't gonna solve the problem. The example of Frog shows that this is important, and here it is not possible to charge courts and judges with the fact that some of the offences are statute-barred. In this case there was a decision to terminate the proceedings, because it had to be made. We lost as a country in this case and in many other cases. Nothing like this will happen if we extend this period of criminality, in my opinion, by any means. And the question - here I do not want to address everyone, there will probably be a lot of questions tomorrow - what Mr Szczerba said. This is unnecessary politicisation. We are not talking about politics in this project, we are talking about actually changing our system. Let's move away from politics and this way of thinking. We must really, as Members, in my opinion, close the system so that there is no situation in which our citizens must simply feel threatened on our roads, where everyone, almost every one of us, is a participant, that is obvious. So let's seal the system. There's no politics here. Of course, the question was why the courts judge this, not otherwise. Perhaps the answer is a project concerning the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We want to change the way we train. It's a matter of actually doing a job, a mission, a service, you can say, because it's not just a profession, it's the best of the best, so that it's the crowning of the whole way, and it's the people who get there when it happens, just like in the case of the article. 180a, for situations like this, for 1,400 cases... However, the idea of justice really requires us to think about whether withdrawal should be mandatory or optional. It seems that the situation, which is on Polish roads, forces us to have a little more reflection on the dimension of punishment. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u59	I thank the Minister very much, especially for saying that the profession of a judge is a special profession, it is a mission, especially as the Minister of Justice begins to say. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to respond to some of the club speeches. Mr Szczerba's speech was just an advertisement for the programme, which is to be on TVN24 today at 2 p.m. 19.50, it did not concern the substance of the statutory submission at all, because even if it were to assume that the case involved collisions or traffic accidents involving privileged cars, this is a completely different legal matter and this is not the subject of an amendment, so this speech does not deserve further polemics. With regard to Mr Jerzy Jachnik's statement, I must say that, as regards the statute of limitations, Mr Jachnik, the statute of limitations has already been two years old, but it is only different from the time when this limitation begins: not since the date of the offence, as it has been so far, only since the end of the period of proceedings. This is a very important thing, I have already emphasised this in my speech as rapporteur, because of the chronicity of these proceedings before regional courts. Sometimes in cases of these offences, particularly road traffic offences, the opinions of road traffic experts are allowed, this procedure is prolonged, there are allegations of opinion, sometimes another opinion, and before this is over, there is a statute of limitations. So this is absolutely justified, and you spoke about specific cases in your speech, Deputy Minister of Justice Michał Wójcik. Nor will I agree with the position of the Kukiz club15 in establishing a new type of criminal offence qualified in Article. 177 § 2 and raise the lower limit of statutory threat to 2 years. Consider such a situation that the perpetrators of this crime, which is often caused by death, severe injury, severe injury to health, are the perpetrators who commit these acts in a state of drunkenness, in a state after the use of a narcotic or other similar agent. But also when it comes to the new type of crime in the article. 178b. If such a person by escape does not comply with the authority of the traffic control authority to stop and escapes, as in this example, he enters the bus stop and death is borne by a young girl, the person who happens to be there, then what else is to happen so that it is not a qualified character of this type of crime? In addition, if this person already acts in breach of Article. 180a Penal Code, where there is either a ban on driving e.g. On the basis of the administrative decision of the old man, either a court order is imposed, and he continues to drive without the authority to do so, and he commits such a crime, we cannot talk here about the basic form, but about the qualified form. It's about time we changed those laws and tightened up the bottom line of the crime. As regards the content of the article. 178b, it is with all due respect to Mr Jerzy Jachnik, who always refers to his personal experience with the justice system, that it must be made clear here that if there is an involuntary crime in the systematics of the Penal Code, it is so written in this particular provision that it is because of unintentional fault or the wording: for instance unintentionally. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 178b has no such wording, so this crime can only be committed on purpose. You had doubts that this crime could also be committed by involuntaryly committing. Because of the involuntaryness here, this act, so committed, is not punishable at all and is not punitive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u61	Thank you very much, sir. This speech concludes the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u62	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. Unfortunately, in Poland we still take traffic regulations too lightly. Without fear of penalties, we break various kinds of regulations both as drivers and as pedestrians traffic participants. However, disregarding the basic principles in this regard can have serious consequences, including death. An important issue that arises in the context of the Traffic Criminal Code is the sobriety of drivers. According to data in our country, there are people who sit behind the wheel of vehicles after drinking alcohol and under the influence of various types of drugs. A similar danger on the road is posed by pedestrians who are intoxicated. The existing rules do not provide sufficient protection for all traffic participants against violations of the law. In my opinion, the reasons should be sought in the existing possibilities of delaying proceedings and as a consequence avoiding liability for offences, as well as in too mild penalties which do not deter either before the first or before the next traffic offence. Therefore, I consider it a very effective measure to improve road safety to strengthen penalties for road offences and traffic offences. The project also regulates, as I stressed in my earlier position, the limitation period for criminal offences. In its amendment, the government has shortened the limitation period for traffic offences and assumes speeding up the ruling in this case. The positive consequence of these changes will be the inevitability of penalties for violations of road rules. I hope that this will contribute to improving road safety. The Act is also intended to prevent too frequent the phenomenon of driving a mechanical vehicle after withdrawal of rights. No one needs to be convinced that these are necessary solutions for proper enforcement. The amendment also regulates the controversial question of measuring the body's alcohol content or the presence of a substance similar to alcohol. The clarification and tightening of traffic legislation is, in my view, the right direction for the government to act. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle fully supports the proposed project and calls for changes to the procedated law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u63	That's the third reading of the bill we're going to enter in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons (Prints Nos 931 and 1351). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Employment of Freedomless Persons, print Nos 931 and 1351. The purpose of the presentation, as the Council of Ministers points out, is to increase employment among persons imprisoned in penitentiary units. It is intended to contribute to the implementation of an important project, which is a work programme for prisoners. The most important element of this bill is the increase in the lump sum that would be attributed to an entrepreneur employing convicted persons. The Sejm at its meeting on 4 November 2016 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. At the committee meetings on 29 November and 8 March, this project was examined. The relatively long gap between meetings was due to the expectation of a positive decision by the European Commission, which had to give a positive opinion on State aid, since the increase in the lump sum which is available to the companies employing convicted persons is treated as public aid in the European Union. Written opinions for the project were presented by the State Labour Inspection, the Supreme Court, as well as the Polish Craft Association. No comments were received in these opinions. The meetings of the committee were attended by the Minister, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Patrick Jak, together with his colleagues, as well as the staff of the Justice Committee's office and the Legislative Office. In addition, Colonel Artur Dziadosz, Deputy General Director of the Prison Service, together with his colleagues, and Henryk Pawlaczyk, President of the National Council of Curators, also with his colleagues took part in the meeting on 29 November. In addition, Mr Marcin Wolny, representative of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, was also present at this meeting. Michał Zoń, Head of the Legal Office of the Central Board of Prison Services, together with his colleagues, and Waldemar Salinski, Chairman of the Committee on Ethics and Disciplinary Affairs of the National Council of Curators, together with his colleagues, was present at the meeting on 8 March 2017. At both meetings of the committee, the project was presented by Minister Patryk Jak. There have been discussions about the project. The draft was systematically discussed at its meeting of 8 March. As part of the amendments tabled, the amount of the lump sum allocated to entrepreneurs employing prisoners sentenced from 40% to 35% of the value of the prisoners' wages was reduced, which is intended to increase the funds of the Convicted Professional Activation Fund and the Development of Incarceration Works. Vacatio legis was also shortened to the first day of the month following the month of the announcement, which is intended to prevent problems in calculating the lump sum for entrepreneurs. In addition, amendments of a regulatory and legislative nature have been tabled. 13 Members voted in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. After considering the draft law, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights requests the High Sejm to adopt the draft law as proposed in the committee's report, print No 1351. I would like to thank all ladies and gentlemen, legislators and experts for their constructive cooperation. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And first, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons. Since the beginning of the examination of this law, we have agreed with the aim of the Council of Ministers to prepare this project. This objective is to increase the employment of inmates in penitentiary units. Thus, the project contributes to the implementation, in our opinion, of an extremely important work programme for prisoners. It is true that work should be an important part of the execution of imprisonment, because it has a positive effect on the sentenced, contributes to their rehabilitation, allows for the development of their professional skills, and is also an opportunity for them to earn money. The work programme for prisoners has an additional advantage, namely it has a positive effect on the order of prisons, on order in penitentiary units. The draft law amending the Law on the Employment of Freedomless Persons leads to changes in the way in which the funds collected in the Professional Act are spent by increasing from 20% to 35% of the lump sum available to businesses for the increased cost of hiring people without freedom. This will bring employers' current costs closer to those of previous legislation, in particular those that were still in force in 2010. The increased labour costs are currently not sufficiently compensated, which is the main reason why the lower level of employment of convicted persons has persisted for several years. The reduction of these costs increases the attractiveness of such work for entrepreneurs, which should translate into an increase in the employment of people without freedom. We believe that this is a worthy objective. In our assessment, the changes made during the examination of the project in the Justice Committee improve the bill. In particular, we consider it reasonable to shorten the vacathio legis from 6 months to the first day of the month following the month of the announcement, which is intended to prevent problems in calculating the lump sum available to businesses. We also agree with other legislative amendments and changes of a legislative nature. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports the adoption of the bill by the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill was prepared by the government because, after the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling, prisoners also had to receive minimum wage, demand for prisoners' work fell and fewer prisoners worked. This is unfavorable and for the prisoners themselves, because they do not have the opportunity to work, and from the point of view of such social goals: to rehabilitate prisoners, to prepare them for normal functioning after leaving prison, as well as to earn some money. Therefore, this law, which enhances the opportunities to support entrepreneurs who offer work to prisoners, together with other measures taken, and thus investment activities and to offer entrepreneurs the opportunity to install their establishments in which prisoners can find employment, is a step in the right direction. The amendments that have been introduced by this law, namely an increase in the write-down to the activation fund, we consider it appropriate. Indeed, even if you get a minimum wage, part of the salary can be deducted from stimulating and preparing work for prisoners. We think it's going in the right direction. And we are also pleased that the European Commission has accepted these changes as compatible with European Union legislation. The only thing that gives us a little thought here is the change that has been introduced in the use of the activation fund. Namely, so far, the law has said that they are among others. used to create in prisons the infrastructure necessary for rehabilitation activities, and now this point is changing to a point that talks about the creation and maintenance in prisons of infrastructure related to the performance of statutory tasks in the Prison Service. So this is a big extension of the possibility of using these funds. Maybe I would ask the Minister to explain why this change is coming, and you're proposing it, because we didn't exactly explain it in the committee. However, we generally support these changes because there is demand for the work of prisoners, prisoners want to work. This has good consequences: and personal for them, and social. As an act in line with European Union legislation, these changes can indeed contribute to increasing the supply of labour to prisoners and, in total, can have positive effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Chrobak signed up to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The value of work in the process of rehabilitation of convicted persons is not a new issue. Work has long been one of the main forms of rehabilitation of those deprived of freedom. The value of work in the context of the effectiveness of penitentiary impacts plays a fundamental role and is difficult to overestimated. This applies to fundamental rights and at the same time human responsibilities as a social being. It is worth signaling that working for a modern man is a value worthy of desire and at the same time a way of promoting society. This applies both to people active in the open labour market and to people who are working in conditions of penitentiary isolation. It is often so that it is only there, behind the walls of the penitentiary, that man discovers the value of work, both for work and for free or for voluntary work. The work undertaken by the inmates should focus on their social functioning after leaving the prison, from this perspective it is vital to properly identify the professional predispositions of the inmates and to prepare them properly for the profession which they will carry out at large. Work, being one of the basic forms of human activity, regardless of the conditions in which it is found, creates an area of freedom for it. It is precisely this sense of freedom, which is deprived of incarcerated, that often work is a value in itself, and even if it does not bring tangible material benefits, it gives a sense of meaning to life, to be needed, to be valuable, to be worthy of man. The value of the work is appreciated by both the prisoners themselves, the employees of the Prison Service and the employers who are the socio-economic environment of the penitentiary units, and therefore one of the objectives of the country that is reasonably approaching the penitentiary policy must be to show the professional potential of the convicted persons. Employers who are employed in prisons offer them the opportunity to achieve effective social integration, integration in line with the social interest and expectations of the public towards those leaving prisons after they have been sentenced to imprisonment. High Izbo! The project presented not only improves the situation of inmates, but also improves the situation of entrepreneurs wishing to hire inmates. Under the rule of the Civic Platform, the number of prisoners in prisons has steadily decreased. Data indicate a drop from 68% Up to 40%. I'm talking about a paid job. This is a reduction in the number of workers convicted between 2010 and 2015 by around 7 000. The aim of the project is to change the way in which the funds collected in the activation fund are spent, condemned by increasing the lump sum for entrepreneurs for the increased cost of hiring people without freedom. At present, this lump sum amounts to 20% of the value of the salaries of the people employed without freedom and will be increased to 40% of the remuneration after the change. Thus, the project constitutes an appropriate, albeit delayed, reaction of the State to the decrease in the number of prisoners employed. It is therefore beneficial for the convicted, and for the entrepreneurs, and what is extremely important - also for the state, which must effectively rehabilitate, and rehabilitation through work is probably the best path. Will the prisoners appreciate that? Will they change their preferences and stop publicly supporting the Civic Platform? Time will tell. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of the bill in its proposed form. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u72	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons. First of all, the draft law provides for an amendment of the article. 8 laws as currently in force. This provision concerned entrepreneurs employing deprived persons and these entrepreneurs were able to receive 20% lump sum activation from the Fund. the value of the salaries of persons employed who are deprived of their freedom. This claim was received by the trader at his request. As a general rule, this compensation was intended to offset the increased cost of employment of those deprived of freedom. Originally, the draft submission assumed a flat-rate increase of up to 40% In the course of the committee's work, this roar was reduced to 35%. And here's the question, Minister, because this explanation didn't come up during the committee's work: why the change, why the change of 5%, why not 10% , not 3% , and what is the amount per year if you can ask for an approximation of the rules related to this change? It should be noted that the draft law only applies to convicted persons in prisons and does not address equally important problems related to the re-adaptation of persons released from penitentiary units. Here we hold the Minister's word that, in a short time, an appropriate law will be submitted to regulate the legal situation of these people. In view of the fact that the work of the convicted person is an important element affecting rehabilitation, as well as the possibility of earning and thus covering its obligations, among others. maintenance, Poselski Club Modern will support the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u73	Thank you very much. And Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party a position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the employment of persons deprived of freedom, prints no. 931 and 1351. The proposal discussed today, together with the draft law amending the Law, is intended to constitute a package of amendments, the overarching objective of which will be to increase employment among persons imprisoned in penitentiary units. Changes in the Enforcement Penal Code, High Izbo, have already been discussed at one of the previous meetings, but I will remind them of their most important assumptions, because they are directly linked to the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons, which is currently being processed today. In accordance with the current wording of the implementing Penal Code, no remuneration shall be payable to the sentenced person for the purpose of ordering and auxiliary work for the organisation of the Prison Service or for the purpose of ordering the local government within a maximum of 90 hours. After the planned amendment, this provision is to be supplemented, inter alia. about work for social purposes for entities for which the authority of the municipality, district or voivodship is the body of the founding, state or local organisational units and companies governed by commercial law with the exclusive participation of the State Treasury, the municipality, the district or the voivodship. Social work will also be possible for institutions or organisations representing the local community and educational institutions, youth educational centres, youth sociotherapy centres, medicinal entities within the meaning of the provisions on medical activities, organizational units of social assistance, foundations, associations and other institutions or public utility organisations providing charitable assistance. This means expanding the number of entities for which prisoners could work free of charge. As the Supreme Court states in its opinion to the project, the proposed change may contribute to increasing the opportunities for inmates to take up work. In turn, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights estimates that the proposal is a step towards rejecting the code rule, according to which the employment of inmates is paid. As she recalled, now only 40% Inmates shall carry out works of a paid nature. At this point, we should ask whether we should also look for solutions to increase the ability of prisoners to take paid work instead of merely expanding the number of persons entitled to work free of charge. An attempt to respond to this challenge is the subject of the project under discussion today to increase the financial capacity of the Convicted Professional Activation Fund and the Development of Incarceration Works by increasing from 25% to 45% deductions for this purpose from the remuneration of the convicted person. The lump sum is to be paid at the request of entrepreneurs. This solution should encourage businesses to employ the convicted more than they have done so far. The additional funds of the fund are also intended to be used for the construction of production infrastructure in the penitentiary units. Doubts about reducing prison pay should dispel international statistics. Poland as one of the few countries currently offers 100% of residents minimum wage for work, while in France and the UK it is 44%, while in Sweden and Hungary it is about 1/3 of the minimum wage. Greater than previously, the deduction for the Professional Activation Fund of convicted prisoners will leave the prison pay to a higher level with regard to the minimum wage than in those countries. High Izbo! The work undoubtedly has a positive impact on the process of rehabilitation of prisoners. Unfortunately, often inmates who want to work, so they express their desire to rehabilitate through work, do not have that possibility. The employment rate of prisoners in Poland is one of the lower in Europe. In Western European countries it reaches around 60%. In our country, according to the Ministry of Justice, this rate has increased from 35% to 42% since the beginning of 2016, with 68% of the sentenced in 2010. Currently, 27 600 prisoners are employed. In our opinion, this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with its related amendment to the Implementing Penal Code, it will increase the number of prisoners working for the benefit of themselves. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Seven persons were included in the list of persons enrolled in the questioning. Would anybody else like to speak? I'm closing the list. But before we start asking questions, I will also say with regard to the Free and Solidarnia Circle that Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan has made a written statement on behalf of the Circle. Let's start with the questions. You are beginning Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome. [[One and a half.]] Madame, I have set the time for one minute, but I do not happen to turn off the microphone if you do not make it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! By proceeding with this Act, we must also think about other regulations that will make it easier for people on probation or who are being punished in an electronic surveillance system. Unfortunately, there is a characteristic exclusion of these people on the labour market. It would have to be considered whether it is worthwhile to apply a way to reduce the cost of employment to employers who have been fired from prisons. It's an important factor in the social re-adaptation of the prisoner after leaving the penitentiary. Consideration should also be given to the proposal of the National Council of Curators to limit the deduction of remuneration for the work of convicted persons, in particular from contracts for work and contracts leaving prisons in connection with early release to the level of the real social minimum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A lot of them pay back maintenance arrears and other liabilities. This will encourage them to work. I wanted to ask the representatives of the Ministry if such work on regulations would be undertaken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The much-needed project is one of the whole package of changes, as I understand it, concerning the activation of prisoners. And I'm glad that, as I hear here today, all the clubs support him. Good. I wanted to ask, Minister, what other changes are there - because I hear that this is one element of the package - in terms of increasing employment among prisoners in the framework of the prison work programme, the Ministry is planning. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow will ask another question, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is right to increase the lump sum for entrepreneurs employing persons who are in prison. The claim will be paid out of the convicted activation fund. Here's a question. The criminal activation fund has limited resources. What percentage of convicted persons will be employed on the basis of these regulations? As long as the employment rate of convicted persons increases compared to the current 40% ? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Kwitek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, a legal act which significantly increases the possibility of employing people who are sentenced to imprisonment is a right and necessary step. It increases the degree of socialisation of convicted persons, allowing them to maintain a partial relationship with society, also allows them to maintain and preserve the skills needed to find a legal source of living after the end of imprisonment. It also raises the level of justice among the general public, among which there are often voices of dissatisfaction with the good conditions prevailing in penal facilities maintained by taxpayers, for which prisoners do not repay the public. This law is therefore desirable, and the increase in the amount of remuneration available to businesses on a lump sum basis, 35% of the value of the salaries of people employed without freedom, will provide a significant incentive to increase the level of employment among convicted persons. In connection with the bill, I have questions. Does the Ministry have data on the number of entrepreneurs [[♪ The bell ♪]] are you interested in hiring people who are deprived of freedom by increasing the lump sum? And what further steps does the Ministry plan to increase the professional and social activity of those deprived of freedom after the end of the sentence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As for the fact that this bill is needed, we have no doubts, it is good that such work has been undertaken. I have a question for you. Of course, those convicted who end the punishment have no guarantee that they could continue to work with the employer they worked with during the penalty. Wouldn't it be nice to extend the period of support for these entrepreneurs a little bit so that they could just continue to provide work for those convicted? The worst thing is when a convicted man gets out of prison and has a longer period when he can't find a job. It seems like the employer who met this employee, because I'm assuming the best guys can get an offer like this right away... It seems that such support could help to ensure that those sentenced as soon as they leave the penitentiary have the opportunity to take a job immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The rehabilitation of prisoners by work is the right direction for rehabilitation of convicted people and this is seen in the speeches of individual clubs presented here. So there is broad political support in this area. From the media information, it appears that about 40 production halls are planned to be built at the penitentiary. I wanted to ask the Minister whether the distribution of these production halls should cover all voivodships, whether there is a certain concentration related to the demand in certain regions for specific professions. Whether the State budget for this year provides for any means to participate in the construction of these production halls, or a hybrid arrangement is envisaged: the establishment of these workplaces [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the participation of the state and economic operators? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u87	Thank you very much. And Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm glad we have consensus on this bill. It welcomes the fact that all clubs have similar arguments in their speeches - we are talking about law and obligations, about social inclusion, about the effectiveness of rehabilitation. These are good directions. I have two questions. One, of course, about the shape and amount of the lump sum. To a large extent Mr Krzysztof Paszyk from the Polish People's Party as if he already explained extensively how this is happening, what are the solutions in Europe. But I also ask you to answer why this particular amount, why such a lump sum was chosen. And the second question, maybe further, but equally important. If this is just an introduction to the whole program of effective rehabilitation, if we are talking about raising this, then please tell us what the next steps will be, which is where the ministry sees where the state [[♪ The bell ♪]] They see the next priorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u89	Thank you very much. And to answer the questions asked, I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Patrick Jaki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u90	Dear Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for the constructive work that is already coming to an end and for the support of all the clubs, which rarely happens in this room. This shows that in matters of importance we are able to work together, together. High Seym! There were a lot of questions about statistics. And this is the moment where, I think, we can brag about it, and we can brag about it in a way that gives me a lot of satisfaction. The moment we arrived, we took office in the Ministry of Justice, the starting number for us was 17,000. people who could work, not work. And today I want to tell you that we have a record: 31 thousand. The prisoners are working. Never worked so many prisoners, never. And I'd like to add that as a result of the fact that fewer people... In general, the generation, the number of people who serve sentences, is about sanctions in isolation conditions, has fallen. Right now, we've only got about 41 grand. people who could work, i.e. to reach 100% We're less than 10,000 short. That is why the situation has improved dramatically and I am satisfied with it. All those who participated in this success must be thanked here. And that is also, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why we are amending this law. As the results of this programme have exceeded our expectations and the activation fund continues to grow, we are also looking for new ways to spend these funds. There are significantly more of them than we thought there would be, because the system works in such a way that the more prisoners work, the more budget the activation fund has. That is why we are able to carry out more tasks than we originally assumed, thanks to these measures. And since we do not want them to go away, we are proposing these changes to you. That is, we would like, for example, to allocate funds that we will no longer be able to use for the construction of halls, for example. for the renovation of kitchens in establishments, penitentiary units in which the sentenced can work, or for boiler rooms or other such tasks. But the most important thing I would like to stress to you is that for the vast majority of people who have taken up work during the last year of this programme, it is paid work, and it is the most enjoyable. And that's why this fund's going up, because if we're talking about unpaid work, there's no equivalent here that we've been thinking about. There was also a question of why we are changing the lump sum, we are reducing the lump sum for entrepreneurs with regard to our initial plans. Because, High Sejm, we ran from the collapse level, which is only about 30%. The prisoners worked in Poland, and we did everything in our power, we wanted to do everything in our power to encourage entrepreneurs to hire convicts in such a way that they would not suffer from the state budget. That is why we wanted to encourage them to co-finance the halls with us on a high lump sum. But during the last year it turned out that interest exceeded our wildest expectations, so we think that this great increase is not necessary, because we will still achieve our goals. I mean, today is 20%. A lump sum for employers who hire prisoners. We offered 40%. So that's an increase of 100%. But since today we are sure that the interest is already so high, we propose to reduce this amount to 35%, which will allow us to build further production halls. There was also a question of how many entrepreneurs have reported interest in hiring prisoners during this year, how many are employed by prisoners or how many contracts are underway... And that's also an impressive number, because it's 300 entrepreneurs who hired prisoners during this year - an additional 300 entrepreneurs. And the interest in the hall construction program is really very high. And the question has also been asked by Mr Noblety whether the construction programme of the halls is to cover all voivodships. The answer is yes. You can access the Prison Service website, where there is a precise map of areas where such units, production halls can be created. And this is the starting point for us to negotiate with entrepreneurs. Does the state budget finance the construction of the hall? No. We invented a kind of -- I'm sorry for the colloquial term -- perpetuum mobile, which is that the construction of halls is financed by the prisoners themselves, i.e. It's from contributions that... The more prisoners work, the more contributions are pulled off just to build the halls, and since this growth is very high, we also have a lot of money to build these halls, which is why the state budget does not pay for it. Mrs Michalek's question - what other changes. As the High Sejm noted, we have made a number of changes, we have proposed to the High Sejm changes related to the work for prisoners. There's another bill. And that is also the answer to other questions, also to Mr Khrushch's question, what are the next steps. I mean, now, of course, we want to make sure that this programme of building halls and work for prisoners brings to an end, but there are many indications that this is going perfectly, in the right direction, so the next step is also the programme, which Mr Meysztowicz also asked about, i.e.. a programme for persons who end years of isolation. In science it is a completely separate research problem, because we are talking about the so-called. Social re-adaptation. And I want to assure the High Sejm, as I assured at committee meetings, that work has been underway for over a year at the Ministry of Justice on the first draft law - there has never been such a law - on social re-adaptation. I hope that this year we will also be able to present this bill to the High Sejm, which will meet the expectations of those who would like you to finally take an interest in those who end long-term sentences, because returning to commit crimes is now one of our most important problems, one of our most important challenges. I hope I have answered all the questions of the High Sejm. What I'm saying is that the work is going in the right direction. I think with the support of this bill, we're putting a dot over an i. By the end of this year, we will have - I am convinced, with great responsibility - record results in terms of the employment of prisoners. There is no such increase in any other European country. I'm saying it very responsibly. Now it's going to be the next step, which is to fix the adaptation system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u91	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, also spoke. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for this interesting discussion. I am grateful to the Ministry, Minister Jakim for the project, and also for constructive cooperation during the work. I am glad that there is not only this project that we are debating today, but that there are also declarations that the work programme for prisoners is already working in other areas, that the Ministry sees problems more widely, that there is a declaration on the next law on the adaptation of people who have already held prison sentences. I think that all of this will contribute to the fact that this area of life will be better regulated, that this will solve major social problems. Once again, thank you very much for your constructive cooperation with this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u93	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u94	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Taking up work by inmates is an important factor in their rehabilitation. Due to this fact and the fact that thanks to the work undertaken, they are able to partially repay their debts, among others. Under maintenance obligations, it is worth taking action to increase employment among inmates. Therefore, I welcome the idea of the "Work for Prisoners" programme, which is part of the revision process. During the committee's work on this project, a number of amendments were tabled to its content, which I have no objections to. Among them is a reduction in the amount of the lump sum available to entrepreneurs deciding on the employment of convicted persons, from the initially proposed 40% 35% of the remuneration paid to these persons. A small reduction will make it possible to pay more incentives and facilitate the development of the prison labour market. Given that the current lump sum is 20%, I share the view that this is still the amount to mobilise employers to cooperate. In addition, it is proposed to speed up the entry into force of the regulations in place. According to the amendment tabled, the amendments would apply from the first day of the month following the month of publication of the novel. I have no doubt that good solutions should be implemented quickly and that they will facilitate the calculation of the amount due to flat-rate entrepreneurs. My lack of objection to this issue is also due to the fact that the project under discussion today has already been notified by the European Union. During the committee's work, there were voices that the amendment was superficial, that the regulations should also include those who have left the prisons or who are taking their penalties in the electronic surveillance system. I agree that it is necessary to extend the range of beneficiaries of this project if the government wishes to address the issue of convicted persons and their rehabilitation and re-adaptation in a comprehensive manner. And I'm counting on it, and what I see confirms my hopes that it is. However, I am aware that not everything can be done at once. I also know that it takes a lot of work and, above all, time for the reforms to be effective and deliver the expected results. Therefore, today's project I accept as only a step forward, one of many of this matter, and I look forward to the announced draft law on readmission. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the revised procession.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u95	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 56 hours 12 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development on the governmental bill amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship (prints no 1195 and 1360). I ask Mr Paweł Lisiecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development a report on the governmental draft law on amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship, which was included in print No 1195. As indicated by the applicant, the project concerns 24 amendments. As a result of the changes, the legal nature of the validation institution would be clarified and the legal process of metrology control at the place of installation or use of measuring instruments would be improved. However, the most important changes proposed by the government are: introducing the possibility of applying the statistical method in the legalization of a homogeneous batch of measuring devices, setting up a Metrology Council which would be involved in the election of the President of the Main Office of Measurements, reforming the field structures of the Main Office of Measurements and identifying additional tasks of the President of the Main Office of Measurements. A few words about the process of the project. The project entered the Sejm on 4 January 2017. Subsequently, on 11 January 2017, it was sent to the first reading held at the 34th meeting of the Sejm on 25 January 2017. The Sejm sent the draft to the joint committees: the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development. The joint committees, in turn, directed the project to the subcommittee. At the subcommittee meeting, the draft was assessed and the subcommittee proposed two substantive amendments, one of which concerned the possibility of commissioning the Metrology Council to draw up opinions and analyses. Two further substantive amendments were proposed at the meeting of the Joint Committee on 8 March 2017. The first of these amendments concerns the requirement that people on the Metrology Council must have a university education. In turn, the second of these amendments concerns the definition of the conditions to be met by the university, from which a scientist may be appointed to the Metrology Council. In addition to government representatives, the chairman of the Main Office of Measures took part in the work of the committee and the subcommittee. The result of the work is a draft law included in the report of the Joint Committees in print No 1360. The work in the joint committees was constructive, efficient and substantive, in a good atmosphere. The joint committees: the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering the draft law, request that the High Sejm adopt the draft law as proposed in print no. 1360. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen for their cooperation, as well as all the experts and participants in the committee's work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u97	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Paweł Lisiecki will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position regarding the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development on the governmental bill amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship, which is included in print No 1195. The project presented concerns changes in one of the most important but not known areas that affect everyday life. The law of measurement concerns metrology, without which it is difficult to talk about any statehood. The main task of metrology, i.e. learning how to measure and how to interpret the results obtained, is to ensure the fairness and certainty of economic turnover, and with the development of industry also technical and production security. The legislative amendments proposed by the government aim to carry out a number of different tasks. First of all, they aim to clarify the legal nature of the verification institution, to improve the carrying out of legal metrology checks at the place of installation or use of the measuring instrument, to eliminate interpretation doubts, to allow the re-certification of measuring instruments legally placed on the market and used not only as a result of conformity assessment, and finally to introduce the possibility of re-certification of a homogeneous batch of measuring instruments so-called. the statistical method and its definition. In addition, the project envisages simplifying the field structure of the measurement administration by transforming existing regional offices into local districts. The number of out-of-town departments is not expected to change in relation to the number of existing out-of-town offices. The current three-level structure with narrow local character makes it difficult to use existing resources of measurement administration flexibly and efficiently and complicates decision-making processes. This is because at the moment there are as many as 58 circuits, each of which should work formally only in the area of its properties. In addition, the draft law provides for the establishment of a long-standing Metrology Council, which would bring together experts working with the Main Office of Measurements. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft in print 1360 presented in the committee's report and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u99	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Fabisiak will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the print project 1195 and 1360. The reform of the Main Office of Measurements in terms of its adaptation to contemporary needs is necessary and expected. However, this amendment, this reform has nothing to do with these expectations, because the amendment of the law should propose solutions resulting in the transformation of the GUM into a modern institution, whose activities will meet the current needs of the Polish economy and science. GUM plays a service role in measuring technologies, while it should become, as it is in the world, also a modern scientific unit. This is the most important issue, and this problem has not been affected at all or, even worse, has not been taken into account. The amendment of the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodship and government administration in voivodship, print no 1195, is actually a minimum retouch. It's a lift that doesn't show much. What does it say, and what should be the result? The first thing - the most important thing - the establishment of scientific units. There's a handwriting in front of me. or all correspondence addressed to the Minister of Science and Higher Education. The Minister writes in his reply that he fully supports the law and that there will be coordination of scientific and research and development work in the area of measurement technologies by the Main Office of Measurements. It also supports the whole reform of the administrative structure, but does not support, opposes the transformation of the GUM into a scientific unit, a specific scientific unit, but financed according to the principles of the Law of 30 April 2010 on the principles of funding for science. So we have an institution for which we are talking about the need for research - this is absolutely the case - and we are not talking about the measures from which it will be financed, we are not talking about the new measures that are necessary, nor are we talking about the scientific staff - but about this in a moment. What are we talking about? We are talking about two things - the appointment of the Metrology Council, as well as the new tasks of the President, more of them. The President is to prepare a new strategy within 3 months - it is very good, we fully support this project, it has long been said about it - but within 3 months it is also to be set up by the Metrology Council, which is to give an opinion on this strategy. The procedure for setting up the Council is very long, so it is almost certain that the Council will not be set up within three months, the draft will not be adopted. There's only one contradiction about this bill. To present more, and there are more, I don't have time. But let's move on to other problems. The conversion of regional offices into local departments of district offices is expected to result in a reduction of staff, whereas staff must not be reduced. If research is to be carried out, the staff should be expanded and paid well. If there is no extra money, there are no extra jobs, will the appointment of a council or the extension of the term of office of the President allow for a better, modern functioning of the GUM? Definitely not. So in a situation where the expected changes are not actually made, I call this law the Statistical Act. This is one of the laws that prepares the Law and Justice for this purpose to demonstrate that it prepares so many laws, but it requires a completely different law, a modern law. In the context of the Minister's statement that the National Institute of Technology is to be set up, without any knowledge, and it is soon to be asked why this minimum law is being proposed at the moment. Isn't it better to wait and prepare a real, good bill, a bill that the environment expects, both the economy and science? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the event of the inability to reform the Main Office of Measures, the Civic Platform will abstain, and will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u101	Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 vis-à-vis the government bill amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. In the current legal system, our problem with metrology rules is not regulating national infrastructure. The institutions responsible for this area are primarily concerned with this. As rightly pointed out in the explanatory memorandum, metrology has always been primarily aimed at ensuring the fairness and certainty of economic turnover and, with the development of industry, also at technological and production security. The dynamic technological development of the modern world has posed a completely different challenge to metrology. These are increasingly new areas in which metrology is applied and without which they could not develop. This is linked to the general trend of product miniaturisation and the development of nanotechnology. The new fields of development of metrology are also pharmacy, biotechnology, medicine, energy, environmental protection, satellite techniques and of course military. Of course, the Main Office of Measures plays an important role in this system. The institution should support the development of the national industry and conduct and coordinate research and development in the area of measurement technologies. The Main Office of Measurements should become a partner for entrepreneurs. He should share his knowledge with them and access to unique technological knowledge. GUM is intended to respond to the needs of industry and initiate joint projects with it. It is good that the amendment also provides for the appointment of the Metrology Council in front of the President of the GUM. The task of the board will be to evaluate the state and direction of development of the Polish metrology, the activity of the substantive administration of measurements, as well as the four-year strategic plan of the Main Office of Measures and the annual action plans of this office and the reports on their implementation. The Council will also be given the right to inspect the documentation of the measurement administration and participate in the selection process of the President of the GUM. It is good that the government responds to the demands of industrial companies operating in areas where measuring devices are placed on the market on a mass scale - first of all, we are thinking about providing media such as gas, water and electricity - and introduces the possibility of using the so-called more widely. statistical validation, i.e. selective submission of control counters, also at the verification of re-entry. Supporting the Polish industry always deserves praise. We should catch up as soon as possible in supporting the economy with research and technology transfer and improve communication between this administration and the world of science and the advanced technology industry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club in relation to the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. The bill concerns institutional reform of the Main Office of Measurements. The proposed change implies redefining and reorientation of tasks, changing legal status, introducing strategic instruments and forward-looking planning of the activities of the Main Office of Measurements. In addition, it regulates the reporting of the implementation of the plans and provides for the creation of a Metrology Council responsible for the substantive supervision of the Main Office of Measurements. In addition, it provides for the reform of field administration structures by transforming existing regional offices into local districts. It is worth noting that the proposed change is moving in the right direction. It takes into account analyses of the problems of the national metrology system and responds to requests and recommendations for changes to the functioning of the Main Office of Measurements. The draft law submitted was also consulted with the authorities of measures and other institutions or undertakings concerned by that law. The comments received during the consultation process and during the work on the Law were usually accepted. I believe that this will succeed in transforming the Main Office of Measurements into an institution that is relevant to the needs of the modern economy, an institution that supports the development of the national industry, as well as conducting and coordinating research and development in the area of measurement technologies. I hope that after the amendment, the Main Office of Measures will also become an important partner for entrepreneurs. The Poselski Modern Club will vote in favour of the law amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u105	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will also support this law. This is an important bill. The Main Office of Measures acts as a servant to companies, institutions, but practically every citizen today in several places has the opportunity to use the services of this institution, it can do so indirectly, because the bills we pay depend on it. Often there are various signals that the readings for electricity are being undermined, they are questionable, etc. This is important, and this is already big money and it affects very large groups, populations, so it is important that this work is done solidly and that we have confidence that the device we buy is good, because we often wonder if this reading is good, whether this water meter reads us water consumption well. Yeah, well, that's why. it is an institution which is important for the average, for every citizen. Changes are needed because the spirit of time requires such changes. It was mentioned here that you no longer need to study every device somewhere, it can be done statistically, because the accuracy of production, new technologies already cause it, but it has to be done solidly. Innovation. Innovation is needed and this, let's call it, scientific activity that would implement some new ideas, but here it is needed and I agree with that. It's impossible from an institution, let's call it a service to make a scientific institution. Here, in general, we need a change of whole, a change of approach, and I think that additional money is needed. I think there is a further need to modify and amend, as regards the further functioning of the Main Office of Measurements. As I said, the Polish People's Party will support these changes, because they are needed, although they are not complete. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u107	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's speech was made in writing. Five people have entered the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list? I don't see any additional reports. So I'm closing the list. Question time is 1 minute. You are beginning Mr Michał Cieślak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From the information of the President of the Main Office of Measurements on the GUM Laboratory Campus, we learn that a suitable location for planning, building and launching a future laboratory campus among all available proposals is the property located in the area of the city of Kielce, at the foot of the Nolas Mountain, in the vicinity of the Telegraph Mountain, with an area of about 11 hectares, owned by the city of Kielce. The Authority expresses its full readiness after the approval of the Minister of Development and Finance, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, to take joint action on the implementation of the programme aimed at creating a modern metrology campus using the above mentioned. location in Kielce. All I'm going to add is that the area was identified after a detailed analysis of tectonic movements, microvibration of the ground and this is the best location in our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The city of Kielce declares its financial participation in this investment, covering the so-called. own contribution, assuming financing of the project from EU programmes. It also announces the participation in the form of several new apartments...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u109	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u110	...for the needs of the lab. My question is: Is the government still considering setting up a GUM laboratory campus in Kielce due to the lack of information on this issue in the committee's report? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u111	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is good that we stress the need for scientific research at the Main Office of Measurements, but Minister, please give an estimate of the size of the budget, the resources that will be allocated to this task in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna ask you a few technical questions, too. I have asked once before whether, in connection with the change of subjection, a new structure, a new arrangement, there will be no changes in staff, the dismissal of employees, because these concerns are still, and as we know, PiS is very effective in this, so these concerns are all the more justified. But back to the functioning of the office itself, I have a question: Do you foresee the innovative activities that you write so much about in the explanatory memorandum, the employment of scientific workers? 'Cause it's not gonna work without that. If so, what will be the additional measures? Will there be an increased budget - this year it is rather impossible, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But maybe next year - and how much? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The government bill amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodship and government administration in the voivodship is a response to requests submitted by representatives of industrial environments and the administration of measurements. From this point of view, thank you very much for these changes, they are really expected, I think this law meets these expectations. Still, I have a question for the Minister. I know there's a strategy going on at the Main Office of Measurements. Five working groups were set up to assess the potential and needs of the Polish industry and society in the area of the development of measurement technologies. Please tell us at what stage are the work on the Code and when we can expect the final product, which is the Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz,15, will ask the last question in this section. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following questions for the government bill. How long can a legal metrology check be carried out on the applicant's measuring instrument, which is carried out at the place of installation or at the place of use? Who is the authority to check the measuring instrument to determine whether it meets the requirements for legalisation? Can the measurement body authorise another entity to a legalisation team and finally to be determined by means of a decision on the legalisation of the measuring instrument? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u119	Thank you very much. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the answers to questions are concerned, it seems to me that some of the points that Mrs Fabisiak put in her speech cannot be overlooked, because they were, in my opinion, in the form of questions raised, which are also related to questions which were then asked. She said that the institute was transformed into a modern institution, the Main Office of Measurements, into a modern institution. This is, of course, the full truth, and we agree here. Fragmentation cannot be made. The Member said that we were creating NITs and that we would create, in turn, a second action, independent of these works, put institutions on the ground, which is not yet fully stabilized. In my opinion, it is necessary to approach this in a logical order, i.e. we first give GUM the opportunity to organise a strong R &amp; D level, plus to organise resources, including by asking for external funding, to finance this activity in cooperation with entrepreneurs and the world of science. This research and science pawn is now distinguished by these changes. At the same time, the National Institute of Technology, which you spoke about, is being created. Only then, depending on the shape of the overall system can you return to talking about the target model of operation of the Main Office of Measurements, rather than putting on the sand some building that the first wind blows over. This must be done evolutionaryly and systematically. Besides, this argument is a little unfair, in my opinion, in relation to this project, because it so happens that I have a certain institutional memory, and the discussion about the shape of the Main Office of Measures has been going on for several good years. From a perspective, we can say that this discussion was simply barren... [[Yeah, of course.]] ...because just like the GUM functioned a few years ago, it works today. If we do not carry out this amendment, we will still have the same condition and discussion about one that is impossible to achieve today's vision. Why, now, the Member has asked. That is why to take evolutionary, but logically resulting from one another, action. There will be NIT, there will be GUM prepared for new activity, we will talk about the target shape of the Main Office of Measurements. There will also be no reduction of staff, because it was the Member who accused it. The Metrology Council will be set up in three months, there is no reason to say that it is not available. I think these are the main things that you have said. I'll get to the second part of the question. Mr Cieślak said that there is no R &amp; D campus in Kielce in the committee's report. The simplest answer to this question is not the subject of this amendment, because this is a matter of, I would say, a management institution, and here are changes that do not affect this issue at all. These conversations are happening today. The Member spoke of the support of local authorities, but all of this must be based on reliable analyses so that public funds are spent in an optimal way. Mr Khrushch asked about the costs. In the budget for this year, i.e. for 2017, the budget of the Main Office of Measurement has been increased. Of these 5 million investments will be allocated 3 million, 2 million to - I don't like this term - human capital, so it is increasing the scientific resources of the Main Office of Measurements. These funds will also be used for these purposes. Let us remember this, because it is speaking of Mr Khrushch's questions about raising funds that this change gives the opportunity to obtain external sources, so that the only possibility of financing the activities of the Main Office of Measurements is not budgetary resources. Mr Kasprzak spoke about staff changes. I'm going to repeat what I said in my first reading: this project doesn't result in any reduction in staff, any dismissal of people. There is a transitional provision that says that the employees of the regional offices will go to local offices, so the purpose of this law is completely not human. As far as the change of structure is concerned, the Member also asked. Yes, this change of structure will actually happen. As a consequence of these changes, the R &amp; D Division will be created in the Main Office of Measures next to the basically only vertical which exists today, i.e. this vertical legal metrology. And at this point, it's gonna be the two branches of the Main Office of Measurements. What I said in Mr Khrushch's question: to increase the staff capacity of the GUM has already been added to the budget, also thanks to the decision of the Parliament's finance committee, by 2 million. In general, the whole change in structure is precisely that the proportion of employees engaged in scientific and research work and, above all, research in relation to administrative staff should change. These proportions are to be the result of these changes, but also the actions already taken by President Lewandowski at the very beginning of his office. Mrs April asked about the strategy and work of the teams. Indeed, the teams have been working on these changes and on the strategy for more than six months, but I would stress that the teams are not only working on the strategy as a document which is always theoretical, right, because it is only the implementation of the strategy that brings some real benefits. On the other hand, there are set up thematic teams that are already working in particular sectors. Here are the solutions that will be implemented in industry after these teams have worked out. Here it is really a combination or admission of representatives of business and science to the work of the Main Office of Measurements, i.e. administration, as if it is starting to bring this effect. We are also talking recently with the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways about some solutions, for example. dynamic weighing of the vehicle mass, so as if this would also make it possible to implement. Here, indeed, the teams are working together in colloquially, so that not only a strategy paper can be created or contributed to this document, but also that concrete solutions can be implemented primarily by industry. Mr Sitarski asked about legalisation. This, of course, is carried out by authorised employees of the Main Office of Measurements, while decisions are issued by the President of the Office. One sentence at the same time - it is precisely the change of the GUM's field structure that will restore certain whether it will actually create a certain logic of this system, because today the long-distance and peripheral units are equivalent units in this administrative hierarchy, in administrative proceedings, appeals against decisions of the local centres are considered by the President of the Office, so this is a lack of logic of this solution. That way this hierarchy will be more, I repeat, logical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u121	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment concerns the modernisation of the Main Office of Measurements, so that in a new form it fully meets the current needs. In the course of the work so far, it was argued that, due to the planned and partly already implemented thorough reconstruction of this office, this project is pointless. I am, however, pleased by the attitude of the applicants and the fact that, after a multi-month consultation, having prepared and discussed some solutions, they want to introduce them immediately so that they can make a profit in the future. Instead of waiting, we will already have the basis for assessing the regulations in question and we will be able to make any adjustments. I also welcome the amendments made to the project during work in committees, in particular as regards the extension of the university catalog, whose representatives will be able to be appointed to the newly created Metrology Council. This change is mostly important because the possible membership of a given representative in the Council will be decided by the competence of the university, not just by its name. This will significantly affect the expertise of this advisory body, which is also to have control powers. At this point, it is worth recalling that the proposed solutions aim to actively involve entrepreneurs who are to be supported by the Office at the same time. Thanks to membership of the appointed Metrology Council, entrepreneurs will have an impact on the orientation of research and the priorities of this institution. The administrative reform of the office will reduce the costs currently borne by entrepreneurs. Another reason why it is worth carrying out this project today is the introduction of rules allowing the Main Office of Measurements as a research and development unit in the field of metrology to be present in consortia and to obtain EU funds. In our view today's process of this amendment can only bring positive results. About Free and Solidarni will therefore vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u123	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft Working Time Act on IWT vessels (Prints No 1321 and 1342). I ask Mr Andrzej Kobylarz to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour and pleasure to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft Working Time Act on IWT vessels. The draft law is intended to implement the law of the European Union. This Act implements Council Directive 2014/112 of the European Union of 19 December 2014 implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport concluded by the European Inland Navigation Association, the European Organisation of Captains and the European Transport Workers' Federation. The draft law concerns persons working on inland waterway vessels employed under a contract of employment as crew members or cabin crew. The proposed changes result from the need to harmonise and improve working time on inland waterway vessels and improve working conditions for persons working during navigation. They will also allow for regulations for inland fleet managers similar to those for shipowners in the Member States of the European Union. The EU Directive obliges Member States to adopt provisions governing certain aspects of working time in inland transport, working conditions on ships and relating to the health and safety of workers. The implementation of the provisions of the Directive will allow for a uniform system of treatment of workers working on inland waterway vessels while introducing a new concept of working time on inland waterway vessels into the Polish legal order. The concept of working time on inland waterway vessels in the extended definition of the Labour Code will be understood in the sense of carrying out business duties not only on board the vessel, because in inland waterway transport the working time of the worker on board is not equivalent to working time on inland waterway vessels. This includes administrative and legal formalities, the current passenger service and the employee's readiness to do work during the forced stop of the unit. Thus, readiness to work will become a period of time included in the working time on an inland waterway vessel. In addition, the new rules indicate top-down working hours limits with overtime on inland waterway vessels. The maximum number of working hours with overtime shall not exceed 14 hours in each 24-hour period and 84 hours in each 7-day period. The maximum working time during the season shall not exceed 12 hours in each 24-hour period and 72 hours in the 7-day period. The Directive also regulates the maximum working time on ships during the night, which covers 7 hours between hours. 23 a.m. 6 a.m., which makes a significant difference in terms of the provisions of the Labour Code. The maximum working time during the night shall be 7 hours in a 24-hour period and 42 hours in a 7-day period. In view of the above, after first reading and considering this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on 9 March on behalf of the committee, following its positive recommendation, I propose that the attached draft law be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u125	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u126	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I will present my position on the Government's draft Working Time Act on IWT vessels, print No 1321 and 1342. The draft IWT Working Time Act aims to implement Council Directive 2014/112 implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport, concluded by the European Inland Navigation Association, the European Captains Organisation and the European Transport Workers' Federation. This directive obliges Member States, as the previous speaker said, to adopt rules governing certain aspects of working time in inland waterway transport, health and safety on inland waterway vessels. The Directive should be implemented in the Polish legal order by 31 December 2016, but this deadline has been extended. This is due to the need, due to the nature of the regulation, to mandatory wide public consultations and arrangements. Such comments were received, among others. from the Association of Polish Inland Shipowners. Also, due to the socio-financial impact of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, it was necessary to consult the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Minister of Finance and to examine them in depth and in depth. At the same time, due to the deadline laid down in the Directive, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation remains in constant contact with the European Commission, preparing an explanation on the above. the deadline. The current provisions of the Labour Code do not fully meet the needs of shipowners and workers in the inland waterway sector and are in practice difficult to apply due to the specific nature of the work carried out on inland waterway vessels. The implementation of the requirements of the Directive into Polish law will ensure that Polish shipowners have the same conditions for organising work on inland waterway vessels as those of other European countries. This will also respond to the needs of shipowners and workers in the inland waterway transport sector and introduce regulations that take into account the specific characteristics of work on inland waterway vessels. The design rules will apply to persons working on these ships as crew members or cabin crew but will not include persons who independently and on their own account operate vessels - they will only apply to persons working on inland waterway vessels employed under a contract of employment as crew members or cabin crew. The most important regulations introduced by the draft law include the inclusion of readiness to work until working time, the introduction of a 12-month reference period for employers and the introduction of working time limits for workers working on inland waterway vessels, namely the limits on overall working time on inland waterway vessels, working time limits on passenger ships as well as working time limits at night. The above limits shall not apply in situations where inland waterway vessels and persons employed on inland waterways are at risk, or where assistance is necessary, in emergency situations, to other vessels and persons present on those vessels. The project also concerns the provision of an adequate number of rest days for workers employed on inland waterway vessels and the obligation for the employer to keep records of working time on inland waterway vessels. The draft law only introduces an additional obligation to keep the records on board the vessel for 12 months. In view of the obligation to implement Directive 2014/112/EU, the current monitoring by the European Commission of the state of implementation of the Directives by the Member States, as well as, as regards the proposed law, the nature of the regulations in place that meet the needs of the environment, workers and employers of the inland waterway transport sector, the Law and Justice Club will support the adoption of the above mentioned legislation. the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u127	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka will perform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u128	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will present my position on the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft Working Time Act on IWT vessels. First of all, I would like to say that in Poland general provisions are applied to workers working on inland waterway vessels, which are primarily based on the Labour Code Act. At the same time, the Labour Code does not meet the needs of operators in the shipping industry and in practice is difficult to apply due to the specificities of the work carried out on inland waterway vessels. The draft law therefore provides for the implementation of the Directive of 19 December 2014, which implements the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport, concluded by the European Inland Navigation Association, the European Organisation of Captains and the European Transport Workers' Federation. The implementation of this Directive aims at harmonising and improving working time on inland waterway vessels and improving working conditions during shipping while aiming at such regulation for inland waterway fleet managers as shipowners have in other Member States of the European Union. The implementation of the Directive is also intended to ensure a uniform system of treatment for workers working on inland waterway vessels throughout the Community. The new solutions introduced by the draft law compared to the Labour Code relate primarily to working time in inland waterway transport. According to the project, the working time also includes the period of readiness to work, e.g. the ship's on-call time and the waiting time for loading or unloading, the working time shall therefore be counted against the working time. In addition, total working hours with overtime in inland navigation, together with preferentially granted hours of rest in relation to the Labour Code, will be introduced. The limits laid down in the draft also include working time during the season on a passenger ship and working time at night. When describing this draft law, it should be noted that these regulations will not directly affect the working conditions and remuneration of seafarers, in particular the operating system of the ship will not change, the number of hours considered to be overtime or carried out at night will not change, nor will the number or number of mandatory documents requiring regular registration change. As regards the impact of this draft law, it should be noted that the project concerns two groups of entities. The first group are inland waterway shippers, i.e. about 500 companies operating in the field of inland waterway transport, and these are estimates presented on the basis of the data of the Central Statistical Office, as well as on the basis of a document prepared specifically for the procedure of this law containing an analysis of the social, financial and legal consequences of the provisions of this directive in Poland. The second group affected by this draft law are persons working on inland waterway vessels. It is a group of about 600 people and it should be noted that in Poland in inland waterway transport there are mainly small shipping companies, often family-owned, in which workers mostly benefit from the so-called. self-employment. It should also be noted that the implementation of this directive in Polish legislation will not have direct financial consequences for Polish shipowners, which is very important, and that there is no need to change the current contracts and the costs of adopting the proposed solutions by the entrepreneur. Making sailors' working time more flexible is a way of responding to the needs of shipping operators in this respect. I would also like to point out that I consider it very important that, during the process of this bill, experts from recognised and reputable research entities such as the Maritime Academy Innovation Centre were used - this is a very reliable entity, and I am pleased, Minister, that this expertise has been prepared in this process. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the same time, given the need to implement EU law into Polish law, the Civic Platform Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch will perform on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In full support of the need to implement the recommendations of Directive 2014/112/EU, as reflected in the draft, I would like to stress that some of its provisions were discussed before the first reading of the Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Committee. It was mostly about the provisions of the article. 11 on the introduction of a record of working time for which the rapporteur had the most comments as a practice. However, the Ministry official referred to this directive in his argument and therefore, at first reading, objections were no longer raised as to the provisions of the project. Unfortunately, High Izbo, in connection with the analysis of the discussions at the committee meeting and the comparison of the arguments used by the Ministry's representative with the actual provisions of the directive, we regret to say that there are significant discrepancies between them. We are of course aware that the bill was prepared before the appointment of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, because at least since August 2015, but this does not change the validity of the reservation, because firstly, if we compare the article. 1 draft law with an appropriate provision in the directive, specifically from the so-called. The first clause of the Annex to the Directive, concerning the scope of application, notes that the draft law has disappeared from the extremely important wording concerning the directive, which limits its scope to justified and understandable cases. Art. 1 of the draft law reads: "The law shall apply to persons engaged in work on an inland waterway vessel employed under a contract of employment (...), whereas the directive states: "This agreement shall apply to mobile workers (...). The absence of this key wording on the route makes the provisions of the Act, including Article. 11 on working time records would even apply to intra-port shipping when crews operate even several ships a day during a change, including so-called. small, where there is often no possibility to store such documents at all. Secondly, a comparison of the provisions contained in the so-called directive. Clause 12 with the corresponding Article. The 11th draft law, to which observations were submitted at the committee's meeting, makes it possible to see the validity of the observations submitted, fully in line with the spirit and letter of the provisions of the Directive, and the non-compliance with those provisions of the draft, paragraph 4 of the article. 11. The provisions of the Directive require that the working time of crew members be recorded in the form of registers in such a way as to enable the employer to monitor compliance with its requirements by requiring that they be kept on board at least until the end of the so-called ship. the base period, the records of which are to be subject at appropriate intervals, by the end of the following month at the latest, to joint scrutiny and approval by the employer or his alternate and by the employee. These records are clear in the light of the practice of sailing on routes in Western Europe, where changes in crews occur in several weeks' cycles, e.g. 2 in 2 or 3 in 3 weeks, and after the change, staff travels all over Europe to their homes. Therefore, joint checking of records is to be carried out, I quote, at appropriate intervals, and therefore appropriate for the work cycle of the employer concerned, but, again, I quote, by the end of the following month at the latest. The Commission's argument is not confirmed by the provisions of the Directive, as nowhere in the Directive requires the employer to provide the worker with a record of working time by the 10th day of each month, as such a provision contradicts the established practice of replacement of crews on routes. So that, High Izbo, your marshal, on behalf of the Kukiz Posel Club15, we would like to present three amendments to this law and we believe that they will really remove this overinterpretation of the directive and this will certainly contribute to the normal functioning of inland waterway transport. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. And on behalf of the Club Modern Member Piotr Misilo. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Draft Act on Working Time on IWT Ships. The purpose of the adoption of the new rules is to implement the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport, concluded by the European Inland Navigation Association, the European Organisation of Captains and the European Transport Workers' Federation. It should be noted that in accordance with the Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Member States were required to implement the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with that Directive by 31 December 2016 at the latest, as mentioned at the outset of the Directive. According to the draft law, the working time on an inland waterway vessel will include the work carried out on board the ship at the employer's request. Staying ready to work on an inland waterway vessel will be counted against working time. According to the draft law, the working time on an inland waterway vessel must not exceed 8 hours per day and on average 40 hours on average in an average 5-day working week in a 12-month trading period and the weekly working time, including overtime, must not exceed 48 hours on average during the trading period. The maximum working time on an inland waterway vessel, including overtime, shall not exceed 14 hours in each 24-hour period and 84 hours in each 7-day period. However, the maximum working time during the season on a passenger ship, including overtime, shall not exceed 12 hours in each 24-hour period and 72 hours in each 7-day period. The project also introduces a maximum working time at night on an inland waterway vessel which shall not exceed 7 hours in any 24-hour period and 42 hours in any 7-day period. It was assumed that in inland navigation, the nighttime was 7 hours between hours. 23 a.m. 6 a.m. At the same time, adequate protection is proposed for workers who are considered unfit to work at night on the basis of a health certificate - to be transferred to work in accordance with the position taken outside the night. The proposed law introduces an obligation for the employer to keep separate records of working time on an inland waterway vessel for each worker. The employer is to keep such records until the end of the accounting period. In addition, by the 10th day of each month the employer shall provide the employee with records for the previous month. The staff member shall sign records the copy of which shall be kept for a period of 1 year. The Act is due to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication in the Official Journal of the Laws and Moderna will vote in favour of this Act, but I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Prime Minister to the fact that the Act should have been adopted a few months ago by the end of 2016. - and that such delays may be and are a real problem for the entities concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law, prints no. 1321 and 1342. As my previous speakers have already said, the provisions of the draft law are a reference to the obligations arising from the introduction and fulfilment of the requirements of the 2014 EU Directive. The inclusion in Polish law of the requirements of the Directive should - and probably will - ensure that Polish shipowners and seafarers have the same conditions for organising work on inland waterway vessels as companies and employed in other European Union countries. In practice, the aim is to harmonise the treatment of inland waterway workers and to streamline the system and to harmonise the system for calculating working time on inland waterway vessels and, consequently, to increase the protection of workers in the sector. However, the new regulations will not directly affect the working conditions of persons employed on board. The draft law regulates and clarifies the concepts of working time of people working under a contract of employment. These records do not apply to persons operating on the basis of the so-called. self-employment. According to the draft law, the working time on an inland waterway vessel will include the work carried out on board the ship at the employer's request. Staying ready to work on the ship will also be counted as working time. According to this project, the working time is also intended to include a total limit on overtime working hours. And that was - the amount and the ability to work these hours, the way they are settled, then to get time off work - in the records of this project specified. It was also specified and defined, the nighttime was defined. It was also indicated whether the time of night employment was fixed and whether certain compensation for free time was granted. There are also provisions on the application by the employer and keeping separate records of working time for each worker, making them available and placing them or storing them in a specific place. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of this bill, as we are already a little behind schedule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan from the Circle of the Polish Free and Solidarnia has given her voice in writing. Therefore, we proceed with the questions. Four ladies and gentlemen of the House have come forward. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u136	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! I would like to ask one key question: What is happening in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation that once again you cannot prepare legislation that will implement EU law in time? Let me remind you that we were just talking about a draft law on marine equipment and we were working on it. It was also to be implemented. He didn't stay until the end of last year. Now we have another law on working on inland waterway vessels. Also, the Ministry did not have time to prepare legislation that would implement European law into Polish law. For what objective reasons was the Ministry once again unable to implement these provisions? Minister, what's going on in the ministry, what kind of action isn't being taken, that you're not able to make it within this deadline? Thank you, and I'm asking you for an answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the questions raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u137	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Jerzy Wilk, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the Working Time Act, the crews are key to two phrases: on the road and the deadline for accounting for this working time. On the road, because the directive uses that word in the case of the provision that this Agreement applies to mobile workers, whereas the draft law states that the law applies to inland waterway workers employed under a contract of employment. And here is the discrepancy, that also on these small ships sailing in ports would be the need to account for working time, and that is rather difficult to implement. The second point concerns time settlement: in the directive by the end of the month following the end of the previous one, while in the law, in the draft law is the deadline that the 10th day of each month the employer [[♪ The bell ♪]] must present that record to the employee. Question to the Minister: Don't you consider it appropriate to amend this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u139	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For months now, there has been a debate on the importance of inland navigation. As the Poselski Kukiz Club15 we are among those who say: yes, it is a very important branch of the economy, it is a future flywheel not only for the western wall, where there will be the channel Odra - Danube, but also for the entire northern Poland, or perhaps once Warsaw, Poznań or Bydgoszcz. We have this knowledge, and we are preparing such a bill, where we ourselves are overinterpreting the directive, where there is no word about the route. Minister, doesn't that prove that there was no good public consultation? Does this not show that the voice of the industry is not being listened to, which is to be used to lift this inland shipping, and is to be the flywheel of our future economy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u141	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The worker on board is at the workplace at all times, whether he is a worker or a rest period. In view of the fact that there are behaviours which, according to the Labour Code, are unacceptable in the workplace, and in this case the place of work coincides with the place of residence and the place of rest, I would like to ask whether these issues are regulated by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u143	Thank you very much. That's where we've exhausted the list of speakers. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Jerzy Materna, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for today's debate in the plenary room on the report on the government draft law on working time on inland waterway vessels. I would like to thank the rapporteur first of all and also the Members who spoke on behalf of the clubs and asked questions. I would also like to thank the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, at which the first reading of this law took place. As you pointed out, the draft IWT Working Time Act aims to implement Council Directive 2014/112/EU implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport, concluded by the European Inland Navigation Association, the European Captains' Organisation and the European Transport Workers' Federation. Implementation to Polish law by the Act on Working Time on IWT Ships ensures the creation of Polish shipowners of such conditions for organising work on IWT vessels as the ship owners of other European countries have. The draft law complements the current provisions of the Labour Code in a way more suited to the needs of shipowners and workers employed in the inland waterway transport sector and introduces regulations that take account of the specificities of work on inland waterway vessels. To answer your questions and the amendments tabled regarding the delay in implementation, I would first of all like to say that we are still in contact with the European Commission. The situation simply requires extensive consultation due to the fact that the association of Polish shipowners wanted to introduce an additional delegation of employees. This required consultation with the Ministry of the Family and the Ministry of Finance. It could be said that this went beyond this directive. There is therefore a slight delay. This will be by the end of this year, given that these consultations have been ongoing and require additional arrangements. As regards Mr Wolf and Mr Khrushch, the questions concern the amendments tabled. In response to the amendments, it should be noted that the Act was consulted, inter alia. with the largest Polish association of shipowners, which has developed an agreement with its European partners, which has in fact been introduced by the directive. The project raised no objections. We also have an opinion from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the compatibility of the project with European Union law, also with the directive being implemented. At the same time, it should be noted that the amendments tabled are unilateral and may discriminate against at least one group of inland waterway workers. For this reason, they should not be adopted at this stage. Amendment 1 concerns the addition of the en route expression and Amendment 2 concerns the definition of the en route expression. First of all, it requires that the main objective of the Directive, in line with the preamble, is to ensure the protection of the health and safety of workers in the inland waterway transport sector. The objective of the protection of workers therefore applies both to persons employed as crew members and to persons employed as cabin crew. The working time of the worker on board, as set out in the Annex to the Inland Water Transport Directive, is not equivalent to the life of the ship. The average working time on the ship does not only apply to the duration of the craft's voyage, but also concerns the activities of the ship's staff, e.g. carrying out minor repairs on board the ship, selling tickets, handling passengers or handling formal and administrative matters for the ship. Therefore, the introduction of the above amendments, i.e. the introduction of an expression: on the road and the definition of expression, would result in the exclusion from the protection of the scope of the Directive of parts of workers employed in the inland waterway transport sector, which would result in discrimination against some workers employed on passenger ships, for example.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u145	Minister, it's on the committee that everything will be discussed, maybe details... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: Yeah, but I just wanted to explain, because there were questions asked, among others. by Mr Wolf and... I know, I know. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Jerzy Materna: ...and Mr Khrushch. That's why I'm explaining this. It also requires that the exemption is incompatible not only with the directive's objective of ensuring protection for all workers in the inland waterway transport sector, but also with the legal order in force. The provisions of the Act should apply to all employees, and not only to those who do work during the voyage of a craft lasting more than 2 days and in the A1 work system. The contested bill therefore meets the objectives set by the Directive as it applies to a broad category of workers in the inland waterway transport sector. In addition, according to the opinion issued by the Minister responsible for Polish membership in the European Union, the project was considered compatible with European Union law and the Directive implemented. Amendment 3 requires emphasis that the working time records are an employee document and are kept separately for each worker. Working time records shall be kept for the purpose of payment of remuneration and other work-related benefits. The obligation to introduce is defined by the Labour Code. Therefore, employers in the inland waterway transport sector keep records of working time for their employees, in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Code. The draft law introduces only additional obligations relating to the keeping of this register. One of these obligations is to provide the employee with a record of working time for the previous month. The control mechanism set out in the Directive also needs to be underlined. It is intended to control the amount of the payment of the salary and the work carried out by the employee. The 10-day deadline laid down in the draft law will allow the employer to prepare the data for the records without affecting the pay date and providing the worker with timely information on the amount of his remuneration. Depending on the employer's work cycle would be contrary to the objective of the control mechanism and would result in the worker being informed about his work and the remuneration due at irregular intervals. Such a change would lead to a deterioration in the situation of workers and discrimination against the labour market sector. It must be stressed that the provisions of this law have been consulted with the largest association of employers operating in inland waterway transport, the representative of which confirmed in the Parliamentary Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation that the provisions introduced are beneficial for both employers and workers. On the other hand, the changes proposed by Kukiz15 would lead to a deterioration in the situation of employees. At the same time, the draft law was consulted with trade unions who did not comment on the provisions of the law. They were considered compatible and improving the situation of seafarers. Therefore, the government cannot accept amendments 1 to 3. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u146	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on working time on inland waterway vessels. The aim of the proposed law is to implement in Polish law one of the EU directives concerning the organisation of working time in inland transport. In accordance with its provisions, Member States were required by 31 December 2016 to adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with it. This law was widely consulted and therefore Poland exceeded the deadline for implementation. The Act will undoubtedly improve the working conditions of persons working during shipping, and regulations on ship work will eventually be harmonised throughout the European Union. So far, the work on the ship has been regulated by various Polish laws, among others. relating to the daily and weekly standard of work, but also e.g. night work and Sundays and holidays. Following the implementation of the Directive, the more favourable working conditions in national law will remain and will be complemented by provisions that protect workers under the EU directive. This favorable solution is worth supporting. It is worth noting, however, that the provisions of the Directive apply only to persons working on inland waterway vessels under contracts of employment. The government draft law implementing the EU directive redefines work on inland waterway vessels and introduces a very important concept of a season which is of diametric importance in the context of passenger ships. A revised working dimension during the season will allow Polish shipowners to avoid interruptions in passenger service on their vessels managed by them. I do not need to convince anyone that this solution is very beneficial for shipowners and as such it is worthy of support. In addition to defining the number of hours and rest during the season, the limits of night work and Sundays and holidays as well as periods of rest are set. Clear regulation of working hours is beneficial for both managers and managers, as it allows us to predict what both parties can count on. Controversy during the work on the Act in the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has led to the need to keep records of working time on the inland waterway vessel. I agree with many voices that sounded during the committee's work that we have to take care of the employee's interests, and recording the time of his work is a general responsibility of the employer not only on board the ship. The contested law protects the interests of the worker carrying out the tasks entrusted to him on inland waterway vessels and should not raise any doubts. Wide public consultation, the need to implement the EU regulation on the Polish ground and the benefits for Polish workers are, in my opinion, sufficient arguments for the Free and Solidarni Circle to support further legislative work on the government law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u147	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare (prints 1322 and 1362). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, respectively, in print No 1322 and 1362. First of all, I would like to refer to the information which I believe I owe to the High House, which is related to today's request for a break, which was submitted after the beginning of the Sejm meeting. It so happens that the Member who requested it referred to the article. 1 of the Act. I'm very sorry he didn't read the article. 2. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 says that these lists will be submitted by 27 June this year by the directors of voivodship branches. On the other hand, what the Member is talking about will apply in the future, after 2021, as further lists of hospitals entering the hospital network will be created and modified. That's an explanation. So it's not March 27th, it's June 27th. In addition, I would like to inform the High House that the discussion on this subject in the Health Committee has been rather turbulent, although mostly substantive, and has taken place on a number of occasions. This is not only a matter of first reading that took place at the previous session of the Sejm, it is also a matter of debate that took place at the previous meeting of the Sejm, on Friday, on the same issue. Finally, the discussion on the same subject took place in the Committee on Health before the first reading, at an earlier meeting of the Sejm, when we also discussed the hospital network. As it turns out, despite repeated discussions, there are still some interpretation differences, so as not to say that politics is involved. [[Exactly.]] I do not want to use such phrases as rapporteur for the committee, but it is difficult not to notice and it is difficult not to stress something that has been said. I will not recall the names of the Members who have spoken on this matter, including me, who have said that, in the case of a network of hospitals, ladies and gentlemen, we are not dealing with the situation that has been so far. We had an annexation of health benefits, an annexation of contracts. There is no place for anything that was in force from 1999 until the time of the annexation when the contract was signed. Now we're gonna have a combination of two elements and health care units, hospitals that are gonna be online. As stressed and during the presentation by Minister Gryza, and during the discussion, all the most important hospitals in Poland, those that have an emergency room, those that have a hospital emergency unit, or those that perform other important functions and which even additionally can be included by the Minister in order to ensure that the patient has a sense of security, a sense of stability and certainty that he will be adequately provided and adequately treated. All others who will not be online will not be at risk of an increased risk, of any armagedon or closure without mentioning, will be subject to a normal competition procedure, as has been the case so far. In other words, if there was no law, and if it were done, because it's hard to continue, to annex contracts, it's 100%. hospitals would enter the competition procedure, and so, thanks to this, they will enter the competition procedure, which involves some kind of uncertainty and some kind of anxiety, only a small part of hospitals, thanks to this procedure, complementing this system. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that it is also possible, and it is appropriate to appeal, by referring to the discussion that was taking place in the committee, to not duplicate certain things that patients who are not familiar with the matter may be concerned about. There will be no closure, no one at all thinks about it or talks about it. There's gonna be a normal contest procedure, like it's been going on for nearly 20 years. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the elements that are important from the patient's point of view were emphasized, because he is the most important in all of this, which this law gives to the patient. Of course, for many years there have been discussions about the hospital network, whether this law is to be implemented or not, and at what point, and it was considered that it would first be necessary to prepare maps of health needs and then, based on the maps of health needs, it would be easier, at least, to carry out this competitive procedure complementing what will be in the hospital network at the moment. The maps of health needs have been prepared. They began to be prepared during the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, and were completed in the rule of law and justice. Nothing stands in the way of taking the next step, that is, preparing the said network of hospitals. Thanks to this, the patient will be able first of all not to have the discomforts that he has at the moment, when you feel it either on your own or on several occasions, when after you have been discharged from the hospital, after well-ordinated treatment the patient then with referral to the specialist was left to himself. And he had to deal sometimes with the help of a family doctor, and sometimes he was completely left to himself. After a few months he went to a specialist and after a further period back to the hospital because he was not provided for continued hospital treatment. In this case, coordinated care will provide this possibility, it will be possible to continue treatment, and it will be from two levels. Now we are talking about cooperation between hospitals and specialist, and in the future, thanks to further laws, we will be able to talk about cooperation between POZ and this AOS. Next, I hope that there will also be an end to reception, discharge of the patient from the hospital only so that according to the JGP it is paid for further sick units if the patient has more than one. The patient will finally be able to be - without any difficulties, because such difficulties are presently, and the doctors have treated this patient comprehensively, and now we will be able to endure this difficulty - comprehensively treated, including the transfer from the ward to the ward without any obstacles. And we're finally done with fiction. [[Shock! What's he saying?]] I agree with the former Minister that this is a shock. Compared to what happened in your day, it may actually shock you. We're in agreement here. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: But please do not comment as rapporteur.]] I am also trying to report on what was discussed at the committee meeting, as I also spoke as a speaker. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, so as not to prolong the evening and Christmas aid. Remember, we're going to end up with some kind of fiction. Someone had night and Christmas help, and the patients were in the E.R. anyway. Therefore, it will now be possible not only incidentally - because such solutions are in many places in Poland, but also incidentally - to pay hospitals for these patients. It seems to me that for anyone who not only knows the system, but who at least is a patient, it is understandable and obvious. Thank you very much. The Commission concluded its report on this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u149	Thank you very much. It's nice to take a break and welcome their high school students. Staszica from Ciechanów, who are watching us from the gallery. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Now we begin our speeches on behalf of the clubs. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, on behalf of the parliamentary club... Oh, yeah. Sorry. Time formula. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's amendment changes the health system in our country, changes the interests of patients. Each major change causes uncertainty, fear, and even fear. In order not to lose sight of the advantages of the proposed changes, it is necessary to maintain common sense, so particular thanks should be made to those Members, analysts and reviewers of the amendment who supported the work on the project with a view to patients, regardless of the fact that certain interests will be affected. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] The proposed solutions have many advantages, for example some. The establishment of a network of hospitals begins the period of integration of various forms of medical services financed by public funds. Until now, applicants for the financing of the benefits covered by the competitions and consequently the settlements, hospitals had no incentive to focus on the real health needs of patients and, above all, to satisfy them comprehensively. In the new system, the main stream of resources will flow to hospitals profiled for many types of hospital care for health needs. The choice of these hospitals, i.e. their inclusion in the network, will be based on a number of criteria, which will provide patients with comprehensive hospital medical care. [[What about the Polish county?]] [[Very good with the Polish county. Very good.]] This will be adjusted every 4 years. The proposed change will end the age of unhealthy, sometimes fraternal competition, which has occasionally led to pathology, and the contracting entities, i.e. the voivodship departments of the National Health Fund, have potentially allowed protective decisions to be taken. There have been cases. The new solutions will make the financing of a very large and appropriately selected group of hospitals relatively stable, in principle eliminating destructive competition. Stable long-term financing of hospitals is crucial for patient health safety. [[It's like a speech.]] With the introduction of the new system, there will be no temptation for hospitals to be aware of benefits that are particularly favourable. This has always been at the expense of the provision of other hospital services, which put hospitals in difficulty holding many patient treatment profiles, so public hospitals were in a difficult situation, i.e. district, voivodship and clinical. The new system favours these hospitals, multi-profile hospitals, and also promotes the integration of hospital services with outpatients, night and holidays. There will be no financing uncertainty for primary hospitals. Units constituting the so-called The hospital network will be funded on a flat-rate basis, i.e. they will have their own budgets, and they will be able to manage them freely, thereby increasing the chance of providing patient-specific benefits. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Sure.]] The size of the first lump sum for a given hospital will depend directly on the price of the so-called. units of account, medical benefits and, of course, the number of benefits provided. [[So it's gonna count?]] The lump sum in subsequent years will depend on the lump sums from the preceding periods and, of course, on the number of benefits made. The amount of the lump sum will be set aside to finance healthcare services which, due to the need to ensure adequate access to them, require the establishment of separate funding. The list of these benefits will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. In order to ensure that there is no doubt, at the stage of the Parliament's work to date, it was clarified that the first lump sum would be set at the date of entry into force of the amendment, so that this would be determined on April 2017 depending on the end of the legislative process. The draft implementing act to amend the provisions proposes an algorithm for setting a lump sum for a given period depending on the factor of increasing or decreasing the number of benefits granted during the preceding periods, but an additional legislative directive was introduced in the government proposal making the lump sum subject to the activity of hospitals. Perhaps this will result in an adjustment of the algorithm attached to the draft amendment. Since I am talking about the additions introduced by Members to the government project, it must be pointed out that there is also an exceptional provision for the annexation of contracts for the implementation of medical rescue tasks by mid-2018. Without this correction, there would be an obligation to conduct competitions in this field in Poland. just before the introduction of the so-called. hospital networks. This would mean that they would have to be annulled once the network has been put in place, which would, of course, be pointless. And a few more sentences about typing primary hospital security units. On the basis of statutory criteria, directors of the voivodship departments of the National Health Fund will draw up lists of hospitals so-called. the network, which will follow, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, by the end of June this year. or, in the case of merging entities, by the end of September. In addition, branch directors, after obtaining a favourable opinion from the Minister of Health, will be able to identify the hospitals concerned to the network despite failing to meet all selection criteria if they are relevant for the proper security of access to healthcare services. So the vast majority of today's hospitals will be in the so-called. hospital networks. First of all, this applies to public entities. However, the form of the competition of offers and negotiations will not be eliminated, will remain. Therefore, hospitals not qualified for the network will be able to apply for financing of their medical services. This will address the scope of identified health needs in the area concerned and will be based on the NFZ's plan to purchase benefits. We are at the threshold of the first fundamental change in the organisation and financing of the health system. The system has exhausted its capabilities so far. After many years of operation, he led, among others. to unacceptable dispersal of the provision of services and to unreasonable competition between health care units and to uncertainty about financing, in particular public hospitals. In fact, the negative effects of maintaining this system would have been much greater if it had not stopped contracting between hospitals and the NFZ voivodeship departments. However, it is impossible to annex contracts indefinitely. The introduction of a new system is therefore necessary. There must be a reformed system for providing medical services to rationalise health care in Poland and make it more effective. The Minister of Health proposes this in the interests of patients. The new system, on the one hand, promotes comprehensive patient care and, on the other, stabilises the operating conditions of hospitals, including county, voivodship and clinical hospitals. The proposed change in hospital treatment is not only the only but also, above all, a reasonable proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I usually, and I've been in the Seym for 10 years, not usually, but always, I'm talking out of my mind - I think it's just like that. it is better, smoother and more efficient - but today I will read the first part of the speech, so that not a single word will slip away, so that no comma will be left in the assessment of the substantive draft law on the hospital network. I ask Minister Radziwiłłła to listen to the substantive analysis of the project that you are funding to the Poles today. There's been a lot of reports about the hospital network. Several health ministers have already started to build it. In general, everything remained closer to undefined purposes. The Network Act met with such massive and widespread criticism that it was decided to extend the legislative process for an additional round. However, it did not cloud the impression that the whole project was simply missed. A network of hospitals is understood not as a state to be pursued in order to safeguard the health needs of people, but rather as one to cut down the current resources, eliminating some hospitals there. The whole gigantic bureaucratic structure that evaluates hospitals is actually needed mainly to - attention - to give someone an alibi for the liquidation of individual institutions. But it is in the eyes of many that is the fundamental flaw of the whole project: instead of describing the minimum health demand, it deals with a lengthy description of the entire medicine, by overwhelming responsibility for the treatment of the weakest in the hands of the state. This is a dangerous utopia. I hope that the present project will divide the fate of the predecessors and never come into force. Otherwise, we are threatened with centralism and etatism on a scale unprecedented in any modern country. Maybe we do have time before the whole project hits the dumpster and eventually compromises the idea of rethinking the project. Finally, it is impossible to carry out another health reform without additional resources to implement it, and here the Minister He's up to something again. Minister Radziwiłł wrote in 2007 the speech of the Civic Platform Club in this reading of the law on hospital networks. Not much, Minister Radziwiłł, writing in the Health Manager so substantively about the hospital network law, gave the title to his article. Do you know what it is? The Central Health Committee. That's the article. You're right, Minister, this is the central health committee. You want to centralize everything in Poland. You want a central airport, Marshal Karczewski wants a grand central Senate, you want a central health committee. You said it yourself. I would very much like to discuss with you, using encyclopedic, scientific, medical arguments, but my experience, one and a half years, says it can't be done. I will therefore speak to you in terms of catechism. Don't you feel like you're committing a sin of hypocrisy and lying? I only ask when it happened: when you said those words about the missed project, that it has to go to the garbage, that it poses a risk to patients, or now, when introducing this project throughout Poland. How embarrassing are you, Minister? You come from a medical environment, you're an activist. 20 years you've waited, demanded, protested, and now that you've come to write a bill, you've written such a bill that even a burn-out hospital in Siemianowice was thrown off this list, not to mention dozens of other hospitals. And then you're gonna fix it up, on your knees, and today we have a project that's actually gonna take out hospitals and set the queues because you guys accepted your favorite rule before 1989: whether it's standing or lying, a million zlotys are due. The state will pay, guide everyone. That's not gonna happen, Minister. You don't have anyone in any environment to support your ideas today. There is no environment because you forgot the role the Minister of Health plays. The Minister of Health cannot be a representative of the medical community in the government, or more specifically a part of the medical community, here I am thinking of family doctors. The Minister of Health must be a representative of the patients in the government and in the medical community. You're completely confused by these roles. You're still an activist who entered the government, but that's not how it goes. That's what every responsible minister who's been in the government will tell you. For hospitals finance is less than 5%, for rehabilitation finance is less than 3%. There is one group whose funding is growing by 13%. Do you know what this group of doctors is called? Family doctors, POZ. There's more money on the P.O.P., you cut everybody else. And this project will also be shutting down hospitals. You're also succumbing, I don't know, pressure from your government colleagues or your own thoughts, but there are environments that you don't like very much at all. It's become unbelievable this year. In all dentistry - all dentists in the country, hundreds of students of dentistry - do you know how much the Ministry has awarded for training specialists? [[One.]] Two. All over Poland. [[Dentist at every school.]] But there's another specialty that I have the impression the Minister doesn't like. It's cardiology. You have written a project that threatens that cardiac centers will cease to function in Poland. Cardiovascular diseases are the main killer of Poles, and you have written a bill which, in fact, either consciously or because of the inability to create law, actually deprives Poles of this care. But I don't suspect in this case because... I do not know if you know how many residents, i.e. how many cardiologists the Polish government intends to educate in 2017. How many seats did he give for residency, you know? [[Probably nothing.]] Zero. The Minister of Health has decided to educate zero cardiologists. In 2015... [[Bravo!]] [[Success.]] ...it was the last decision I made in the health department... [[That's a good change.]] ...there's been a decision on 180 residences. 180 people wanted to educate additionally so that Poles suffering from heart attacks, atherosclerosis, vascular diseases, hypertension had people who would treat them. You decided to give zero seats. How embarrassing are you? In the bill - today you tell Poles that you will take care of their safety - you are eliminating all medical assistance. And you tell all Poles... [[Game in the O.R.]] If you would be kind enough not to disturb me, I would be grateful. [[This is where Rutnicki comes in.]] But you're bothering me, so I'm talking to you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u153	I'd like to ask for some peace in the courtroom, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr Rutnicki says something to me all the time. I'd really ask him not to do that.]] Mr... Please have a strong temper and be calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u154	Mr President, the strength of character is to hold back your emotions. I suggest you apply this. Nocturnal medical care - you're legally eliminating it. Like Gomulka, the lake will stand here and it will be. It won't be, because if all the patients come to these emergency rooms, and they come because you're taking out the clinics that work at night, then the mother comes with the child who has the flu, the mother comes with the baby who has a stomachache, somebody comes from the car accident, brings a man with a heart attack, and between them he gets involved. Someone with diarrhea. This is what you do for Poles, this is your mentality. I see in this picture before 1989: centralism, central committee, state will take care of you, state will heal you, state will plan you And finally The state will tell you how to live your lives. No, Minister, times have changed. Not only in the context of what you will decide for us and what you will not, but in the context of the fact that you are no longer an activist of the medical self-government. You're the minister of health in the government, and it's your duty to defend the rights of patients, [[Applause]] defend the rights of patients, not the interests of the environment. You wrote the bill because you had to write it. And you stand up to two key issues, Minister. In order to please President Kaczyński, you are putting the health of Poles at stake. This is actually comparable to what Minister Macierewicz is doing in the government. It is at stake for the defence of the state and our common security against its idée fixe concerning Smoleńsk, while you put on one to please the President and to remain in this position, to remain in this position, and on the other to protect the health of Poles. You know, I kind of understand you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've been Minister of Health for several years. Being a minister of health is a very hard job, but the strength of being in politics and being a minister of health is the ability to resist strong to defend the weak, not to succumb to strong pressures and to forget the weak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u155	Thank you, sir. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Amendments, amendments!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u156	Corrections. We make two amendments as a club, I forget, two amendments that will guarantee the Poles what you forgot. This is about the amendment on geriatrics. You forgot the old people. These hospitals are going off the grid. We are making an amendment to ensure that hospitals, which are geriatric hospitals now or in the future, are guaranteed to be in a network of hospitals. They're old, sick people. You forgot about them. Not much, no...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u157	Mr President, I would like you to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u158	Now. We also make an amendment to ensure that rehabilitation hospitals are safe. You forgot that, too. Let those hospitals fall off the grid and they'll have to fall into rehab hospitals. And finally, cardiology. The Poles are dying of heartache, and you've forgotten all about these hospitals. I'm making two amendments on behalf of the club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u159	Thank you very much. [[One promise you didn't fulfill, you didn't read from the card.]] [[I read the beginning.]] I would like to ask you, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present our position on the government proposal for a law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care, seym prints No. 1322 and 1362. In addition to setting up a network of hospitals, this draft law introduces, first of all, a change in the way they are financed. It provides for a revision of the rules for financing hospital treatment from contractual to lump sums. Of PLN 30 billion, which is foreseen for hospital treatment in the budget of NFZ, 91% funds will go to network hospitals, by the remaining 9% will be able to apply to medical institutions through participation in competitions. And this is a fundamental change... [[So what?]] ...and most importantly, the system will be turned upside down. The system so far is not good, but turning it upside down will have great consequences for the whole system and, above all, for patients. Question: "Why?" Unfortunately, it's to save money on health care again. After all, the project does not provide for an increase in hospital care expenditure, and costs are rising, so the real money for health protection will be less. Poland's health expenditure against other European countries is extremely weak. We are on the tail of Europe, we are at the gray end, at the very end of Europe, as regards the percentage of GDP allocated to public health protection - 4.5% with a European average of 7%. It's embarrassing, it's embarrassing. Health protection in Poland has been considered a necessary evil for years. And some extra stuff. We are once again on the tail of Europe in terms of the number of doctors per 1000 inhabitants. Not to mention the highest average age of specialist doctors. And this reform is making a difference? Nothing. That's not enough, this reform could make these doctors even less. And this problem isn't just about doctors. I'm gonna extend it to the nursing problem, too. There are many specializations around medicine and all are treated practically in stepmother ways. Let's take a look at this from the patient's position. What are patients most complaining about? All you have to do is go to any hospital and see the queues. There are queues to get to a specialist doctor, there is waiting in queues for surgery - the most, let's say, such a concrete example - for example cataracts, a few years, 1.5 years is normal. Patients through this reform will neither have to speed up their appointments at the specialist facility nor will they have surgery faster, because doctors will not come. This system, which you foresee, is very convenient for hospitals, which are, of course, online. It puts them in a strong position, privileged to the patient, and the role of the patient is getting smaller, because money does not follow the patient, but you pay someone in advance regardless of the quality of the service. The current system, as I said, is not good because there are errors in the valuation of procedures. But let's correct these errors in the valuation of these procedures, change the tariff and thus change the system for the benefit of the patient, and not turn it upside down. Now, the money goes after the patient, but with your idea of flat-rate hospital funding, the patient, as I said earlier, will become a cost. And it is very likely that patients whose treatment is expensive will be treated like a hot potato through hospitals that will move this patient from one hospital to another. It's hard for me to understand. After all, everyone knows that such a way of financing is simply demotivating. The rent paid in advance will give financial security to these hospitals. And what safety does it give patients? None. Your project is simply anti-patient, because - I stress once again - in a privileged position towards the patient puts the hospital. If you want - here I appeal to the government - to make this change in terms of health care issues in Poland good, then change your attitude towards training doctors. After all, it is obvious that there are not enough doctors in Poland. Increase admission limits to medical directions, adjust the number of residences and specializations to the current needs, so that it is not as my previous speaker said that we have residences here at the level of dentistry - zero, one or two... [[And zero in cardiology.]] ...for cardiology - zero. It's true, I've been checking it out. Also take action to increase the number of nursing staff training. And also make sure that young people graduating from medical universities do not face a dilemma - here I speak like a young person - whether I should go abroad and get everything, say, five times more than in Poland, and ask me what specialization I want to do without any grace. And with us, a young person has to ask. What are the Ministry's arguments to prefer certain specializations, which are excessive in Poland, because there are also such ones, and to discredit others whose deficiency is painful for most sick people who have to face such problems? The Polish health system requires funding as soon as possible. Your reform is doomed to failure in advance, because if you do not change your approach to co-financing in general here in medicine, then this reform of yours will only, let's say, costogenic, it will not bring any real, good results for the patient. It's doomed, as I said, to failure, because without money it'll be dragging too short a duvet from one place to another, and still something will always be discovered. I'm not a doctor, and I'm explaining it a little bit like I'm some kind of specialist. It's very advanced, I mean elementary, everyone should understand that. I'm probably gonna be facing a charge on your part right now that there's no money in the budget to finance health care. All you have to do is look for them. This money will be found where they are unnecessarily wasted, or on completely unnecessary institutions, or unnecessary spending, for example, on political offices, which, together with all parties, you want to keep together, and they are really unnecessary to anyone. That's an example. You'll say there's not much money from the offices. But a grain for a grain, and a measure will be gathered. You want the money, you want the funding of the political parties out of the budget. What's that for? Is it needed? There's no funding for kukiz, and he's doing well. It's not necessary for anyone. We do not need taxpayers' money to function, we are satisfied with what we have as Members, and thanks to this opportunity we look people in the eye. Back to the subject, which is your bill. This draft law causes so much damage that you violate this project's basic medical principle, which has been accepted as an ethical principle for years: firstly, do not harm. And your reformative ideas are what's causing the whole health service to get hurt. Here I admit, I have a lot of signals from different backgrounds, but above all, patient environments. Patients, patient environments are terrified of your ideas, because they know where it's gonna go. In such a way that, despite your assurances, the facility will be removed and the patient's path to the specialist clinic and the hospital will not be shortened and will be extended. The only one that may not be thrilled, but the group that's enjoying your idea is some of the directors of county hospitals. I admit that some people are happy, but I'm not interested in hospital directors who are called county officials. I'm just interested in people. Because the health system is made up of people - doctors, nurses, paramedics - for people, for patients. If you have such an approach to the generally accepted staff issue, you will have great hospitals, perhaps even equipped with great medical equipment, which will not have anyone to serve. Change personnel policy. This system, which is currently functioning, is to be improved, does not need to be turned upside down. I appeal again: let's increase the financing of health care, because we are still at the gray end in Europe, and this is really no longer appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And, yet, Kukiz, 15 will vote against this project. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u161	Thank you very much, sir. [[All or part of it?]] [[All of it.]] I invite Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Modern about the draft law amending the Act on Basic Hospital Security from Print No. 1322. Modern since the second draft law establishing the so-called. the hospital network indicated a number of doubts about it. We pointed out that the need to meet the conditions laid down in the draft for qualifying for the so-called. The network eliminates a number of public hospitals, including in particular those which are very important for single-profile hospital patients. Without getting into details: these criteria are of course to be improved, here nobody has the slightest doubts. Another issue we have mentioned is obvious discrimination against non-public hospitals, which are de facto deprived of the possibility of qualifying for the so-called. the network, and this does not change in any way the fact that the eligibility criteria for healthcare providers do not refer to the ownership structure of medicinal entities. Another issue that needs to be improved is the percentage of the amount allocated to the competition procedures. Less than 9% is far too little, especially given the above-mentioned criteria for network qualification. Ladies and gentlemen, for hospitals that do not meet the conditions for qualifying for the network, the competition procedure will be the only rescue for signing a contract with the NFZ, and it does not matter whether hospitals that do not get into the network will be 100, 200 or 300. Even a few dozen hospitals with access to public funds will result in patients losing their right to finance public health services under the Constitution. Consequently, this could lead to the collapse of the entire health system in our country. Important doubts are also raised by the so-called. extraordinary network qualification mode. Mr Gryza did not answer the question of what criteria would the Minister of Health take into account at the time of such decisions. How can we be sure, then, that this decision will be objective and that it will not result in discrimination against one another again? Ladies and gentlemen, we have also pointed out that the idea of flat-rate financing for hospitals, which will be included in the so-called. networks, reduce the problem of investment in these facilities, reduce, I apologize, the level of investment in these facilities, which will have consequences, among others. reducing the quality of their services. The Minister says it will be the opposite. Just what kind of evidence does the Minister provide, what analyses, and what studies? What makes you think that the flat rate guaranteed for a few years will increase the level of investment? Because it will increase the certainty of continuity in the financing of benefits? The level of investment can only increase the competition existing between providers who will have to fight for public funds. And in the case of your project, the hospital either meets the conditions and consequently goes online, and has money, or doesn't meet them, doesn't go online and doesn't get that money. Do you - even if you try to agree that a guarantee of continuity in the financing of benefits can be any criterion that increases the level of investment made by hospitals - really think that this one criterion will be sufficient? It won't. This project is hitting a health care system based on healthy competition, sir. So it hits investments, quality of benefits, innovation, progress in Polish hospitals, and thus hits patients. This does not mean that the public health sector does not require regulation. On the contrary, it does. However, this is a significant overregulation. I'm skipping the ridiculous criterion of having a contract with the NFZ for two years. Mr Gryza has not explained what, then, with those hospitals that have not had such an agreement in the last two years, it should be assumed that no new hospital, public or non-public, will be online. The question that needs to be repeated two weeks ago: How will the entities that have made - and will carry out - changes in their legal form or take part in mergers and acquisitions be treated in the course of the selection process in the last few months? In my opinion, there is a real risk that the NFZ may consider that such a new entity does not fulfil the condition for the provision of health care services under an agreement of at least the last two calendar years. We have also not heard from the Minister whether the Ministry of Health takes into account that hospitals which, as part of their presence in the network, will only have certain branches, may try to distribute the funds allocated to ensure the survival of their other departments as well. In other words, the money allocated to one branch will be distributed to other branches through the creative accounting of the directorate of the entity. This in turn will make care in any of the departments of such a hospital not optimal. Do you have any idea how to prevent such a situation? Ladies and gentlemen! Modern can't support a project in this shape. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u163	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Owl, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As my previous speaker has already said, the Modern will not support this project, will not support it for many reasons. I also want to say that I am aware that making further amendments will not change much, because this is not the way to resolve this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, you are changing the basic principle. Today, the money won't follow the patient any more, just like it was. But this bill is particularly hitting the private sector. Apart from the fact that this is not included in the criteria, it must be said very clearly that it affects almost exclusively the private sector, because the public sector still has a moment, it can subdue one unit in order to save the other. He's still gonna make it, because the bill comes in six months. The private sector doesn't have that chance. That's why you don't want to publish a project on hospitals that go online and those that are off the grid, which we've been working for over a month. We're getting some weird answers that the voivode sends a letter to the minister, the minister doesn't answer because he's got 30 days to answer again. You can't do that. After all, you are well aware: Minister Radziwiłł has this list with him because every director of the National Health Fund has given you this list. According to this list, e.g. in Małopolska out of 67 units 34 units do not meet the criteria. Therefore, if this is applied literally, they will not enter the network. We'd like to know exactly what these projects are to know. I do not know if the Minister listened to the speech by Mr PiS, Mr Dziuba, who said, among others. such words: dispersal of the provision of services means that new units will be less. What does that mean? I treat it in such a way that not all of them will have contracts that maybe no contracts for certain benefits will be announced at all. Today, Members of the PiS have one answer for those units that are not online: the Minister will enter them. How is he gonna type it in? [[He'll want to, he'll type it in.]] If we donate from the current pool of 95 and 97% The budget for flat-rate financing, it will be the Minister who will come to the conclusion that it secures the whole area of health services and that there is no need for any competitions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also request a quote which, in my opinion, best sums up the entire draft of this law: This proposal to set up a network of hospitals is destructive, anti-motivational solutions, which at the same time result in a reduction in the quality of benefits, against non-public establishments. Ladies and gentlemen! Club Parliamentary A modern proposal to reject this draft law at second reading, but if this proposal does not find acceptance of the High House, we would also like to apply for an extension of the time limits for the entry into force of the various articles. And so we want the Act to enter into force on 30 September 2018, so that it is a year for all individuals to prepare for this project, knowing its full records. Therefore, the list of entities, providers who will be on the list, would be published by the end of December 2018 and new funding would be from 2020. This will allow all these individuals to prepare for the new rules of the game, the new rules that are unknown to them today. Take into account that when an entity on 1 July finds out that it is not on the list of networks, when the appeal period is over and the minister says ultimately: no, I won't enter you when she gets the contract. On the basis of which it will provide health services [[♪ The bell ♪]] October 1st? After all, you know very well that these benefits will not be made possible by public funds. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u165	Thank you very much, sir. I understand that these are amendments. [[Amendments and rejection request.]] Thank you very much. I invite you to take the floor of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, PSL. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Common sense must be maintained, as the Member said on behalf of the PiS Club. This common sense kept the Sejm Analysis Office, criticizing absolutely the draft law on the hospital network. This common sense has kept all the opposition clubs. There is no common sense in those who decide today. It is not only lacking in this matter, this is a broader context which Mr Arłukowicz started, talking about changes in the pursuit of centralization of Poland in all aspects of life. All decisions must be made only in one place on one street. There is no freedom without self-government, and you limit this self-government. You're restricting territorial self-government, there'll probably be a reduction in professional self-government in a moment. You just don't like her because you don't like the name. It does not like because it is independence from central government - self-government. If there's anything uncomfortable, you're taking responsibility for the local authorities. Yes, sir. That is also the case with this law. Local authorities will mostly be subjected to a dangerous experiment proposed by the Ministry of Health, because this is a dangerous experiment that does not lead to a spectacular success in the form of a new, wonderful discovery. This is a dangerous experiment that leads to disaster. This disaster will be the most affected by patients, unfortunately. Is there even a place in this bill to think about a patient? ♪ Like him here ♪ I can't see at all. Larger resources have not been secured to make the availability more accessible. Recent statistics, data show that 17 months of government did not shorten the queues, and you promised every day of the election campaign that when you came to power, health care would be healed the next day. Then you started saying it took time. It should have been said in the election campaign that it took time, not after you took over. You had wonderful recipes for all the problems of Polish health care: for patients, doctors, nurses, paramedics, for every environment. Only none of these prescriptions have been fulfilled. She's never really been written, and this bill doesn't give hope. The bearing of hope is a great doctor's mission. Minister Radziwiłł knows this and I think that he has always done so in his professional, healing activities. But there is no hope for patients today that they will have better care that there will be better availability. There is no hope for those who manage health care that it will be easier for them. You're telling stories. This is one of our meetings about a network of hospitals, one of our conversations. You've improved a bit, and it's good that Prime Minister Gowin stood up and changed a bit. I'm sure you haven't been able to convince us that there's going to be a really great availability and that the queues will be cut short. You are sowing anxiety, and this is our huge charge of this law, that it introduces anxiety and fear among workers and patients. They don't know which hospital they're going to, they don't know if all the hospital units that even get online will be funded on a flat-rate basis. You're talking about the free movement of patients between wards. Only if half the troops are removed from the hospital, where will you send them, where will we send them? To other hospitals, to the piers. You want to create big piers, and you fold local Poland. This is the password you are implementing because you have repeated it constantly in the elections: folding local Poland, here you are perfectly implementing it. Minister didn't answer during the debates in committee. for a lot of questions. He even taunted some of the questions about the impact on the labour market. This aspect was concerned about the solidarity. There's already a merger of hospitals today, or they're thinking about this merger of some hospitals, and there's gonna be layoffs. I read an article recently about the merger of two hospitals in Podkarpacie. That's where you take full responsibility, not for 17 months, but for a long time. There's a merger of two hospitals. Now there's gonna be action to qualify for the network, and a lot of people are gonna lose their jobs. You write: this will have no impact on the labour market. What about the doctors who specialize in wards that aren't gonna be here any minute because you're gonna take them out? There is really still a chance, because always the minister and the government can withdraw the law, even at this stage of trying to improve, create a trans-political agreement. If there is no such a trans-political agreement, no reform will last longer than the end of the term of office. It will not bring glory to those who rule today, nor to those who will soon be after you. It always has negative effects. You can't get beyond or up a little higher and try to sit down and talk to different environments. You've united these environments against each other today. This is undoubtedly an event, as in such a short period of time so many different environments, from patients, through doctors, to all opposition parties, could unite the Minister of Health. It has been led to the fact that today we all spoke with one voice from the opposition, quietly a large proportion of those who are connected with your political environment, some of whom have dared to speak. It's loud. This law is actually a ticket to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany. You don't like these countries often, you don't like the European Union, and you're paying our patients a ticket because it's going to be faster and safer there. You have not guaranteed changes to other decisions in this law. Very good that the minimum wage has increased. It is very good that an hourly minimum rate has been introduced, only the Minister of Health should ensure that the state budget increases the expenditure for hospitals that are now facing financial problems because they have to sign new contracts for protection, for food supply. This is all a result of actions in other areas, but we have not seen any intervention by the Ministry of Health in this respect. We cannot support this change not only because we are fundamentally different in terms of concepts. You say, by fewer hospitals, the queues will be reduced, availability will increase. We on peasant mind treat it completely differently, that this availability will be limited and will be much less. You don't see all the specialties as important as rehabilitation, the geriatrics mentioned earlier. Maybe you don't want to think about them. The Prime Minister once said from this speaker that you would not build a silver economy, which is a pity, because these are products and services tailored to the needs of the elderly. But whether you like it or not, the elderly arrive every day. These aren't theoretical problems. I do not agree fundamentally with the Minister's statement that smog is a theoretical problem, because smog kills 48 thousand in Poland every year. persons. It's not a theoretical problem. Your actions in theory seem wonderful to you, in practice they will prove fatal. It's a terrible effect that a network of hospitals brings. Uncertainty, misunderstanding, fear and fear - these are feelings. But if this bill comes into force and you insist and come in, then the worst consequence will come and it will take a long time to clean up. Another loss of trust, another social divide not only on those who manage health care, are working, but you will divide, you will put another wedge between doctors and nurses, between doctors working in one hospital. You will push and divide the environment, but you will also divide the patients, because there will be regions in Poland where this availability will be much better, and you will not equal opportunities. I'm particularly concerned about how you treat these smaller centers. We will see today the amendments tabled by other opposition clubs, but I finally have a request from the Minister. Now, Minister, with all your kindness, maybe you should reconsider and consider why there is such a big resistance to this bill, because if it were to serve patients, to serve doctors, to nurses, to serve those in charge of health care, you would actually have many defenders of this change, and today you can't see them. You can't see them today. You can repeat these slogans about violating someone's business... But whose? You're violating patients' interests... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Right.]] Yes. And in the interests of the patients, we will always perform. We cannot support this change, we will vote against a law that is a dangerous experiment that leads to chaos in health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u167	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna Maria Siakrowska, Circle of the Posel Republicans.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Republican Circle, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft amendment to the Law on Public-funded healthcare provision. The amendment proposed by the government assumes the establishment of a network of hospitals. Within this framework, health care providers will be classified in one of the six categories depending on the scope of their services. The introduction of the hospital network is also linked to changes in the rules for financing healthcare services. To date, the current principle of competitive conclusion of contracts in this area will largely be replaced by the principle of contracting entities eligible for hospital networks. What will be the result? The result is that more than 90% of the funds will go to hospitals in the network, and only 10% will go to hospitals. means... It will be possible to apply for these measures on a competitive basis. In practice, hospitals not qualified to the basic system of hospital health care insurance will have very limited access to the money from the state budget. Consequence? Many of these facilities may be closed down, and they will have to be closed down. The draft law submitted by the government also raises a number of concerns in health care environments. The commentators pay attention, among others. to a catalogue of medical profiles classified in the different categories of hospital networks. Outside the network there will be among others. Medical profiles such as geriatrics, psychiatry or rehabilitation. Just look at the content of the article. 95l, who doesn't mention these profiles at all. This could lead to a situation in which hospitals specializing in particular profiles will not be online. Consequently, this will lead to their bankruptcy. An example of such a facility, which may not be included in this network for these reasons, is the Silesian Centre for Reumatology, Rehabilitation and Prevention of Disability in Ustroń. Another question: qualifying county hospitals for the first category of the network. According to the assumption in this category, the hospital can only have five branches - this is precisely what Article refers to. 95l. Point 4 (1) of the draft law. Here it is worth noting that there are a number of county hospitals, e.g. district hospital in Grójc, which has more branches not foreseen for the first level of the network. If the bill enters into force in its current form, these branches, e.g. orthopedic or ophthalmologic, will not be included in the network. Another point is justified in our view by the fear that smaller hospitals or establishments that have medical profiles not included in the first degree of the network will artificially connect with other facilities, often located in other cities and considerable distances from each other. In this way, they will try to guarantee themselves the level of funding so far, appropriate to such facilities. Such regulation may therefore result in the creation of artificial and fragmented structures in which individual branches will be in a significant distance from each other, which will, of course, adversely affect the situation of the patient, even in another city. Some ministerial hospitals also appear to be at risk. MSWiA Hospitals in Jelenia Góra or Koszalin will not go online, although there are a number of responsibilities, e.g. in case of war. The reason is prosaic: they simply specialize in areas not included in the law, e.g. a hospital in Jelenia Góra dealing with psychiatry or a hospital in Koszalin, which does not operate on duty but performs scheduled operations. In conclusion, the government's proposal for an amendment, the draft law amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision raises so many doubts that members of the Republican circle will vote against the draft law as proposed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u169	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. The law under review is the reorganization of the whole health care system. In accordance with it the hospital care system will change, but as we all hope, the quality and speed of treatment of Polish patients will improve. The existing system for financing hospital services does not work properly and I don't think anyone has any doubts about this. The selection procedures for individual hospitals do not work and current time contracts with individual institutions are repeatedly annexed. The problem at present is the system of annexation of contracts, which makes hospitals unable to plan long-term human resources policies or larger investments. The reason is simple: they do not know whether they will still have funding and at what level. I'm sure the laws will change that. In the current system, no one is in principle coordinating comprehensive treatment of the patient and the entire recovery cycle. The introduction of new solutions will make patient care much more coordinated. The doctor will thus be more focused on the patient's health needs and not on the cost-effectiveness of the individual components of his treatment. This is supported by the basic system of hospital care provision introduced by the law, which separates six levels of the benefit insurance scheme to which hospitals will be classified once every 4 years. It is worth noting that the Act also makes it possible to annex contracts with the National Health Fund to those entities that do not enter the hospital network. The agreement for the hospital by individual decision has the right to initiate a branch director of the National Health Fund, who, after receiving a positive opinion from the Minister of Health, will be able to integrate this hospital into the network in his region. In the Act, the Ministry planned flat-rate financing of benefits that would allow for more rational spending depending on the needs of the area concerned. Of course, you can't overlook the shortcomings of the bill. I see three basics. According to the Sejm Analysis Office, the effects of the law cannot be predicted. The Ministry prepares this bill for a long time, but will it avoid the negative consequences of its impact? Secondly, I am concerned about the fate of hospital workers who will not enter the network and will not receive a contract with the National Health Fund through a competition. Unfortunately, I did not hear from the Ministry about the plans to resolve this situation. Finally, I left the most important issue: Polish seniors. During the committee work, the Minister said that geriatrics are not a way to solve problems. Of course, putting older people in a hospital cannot be a way to care for their loved ones. And I also agree with the Minister that older people should avoid hospitals, but unfortunately this is often impossible. I fear that the new system will not take sufficient care of this social group and will not secure its right to care and treatment. I hope that there will be the only Geriatric Hospital in the country in Katowice. Despite the many concerns raised at this stage of the project, I hope that its final version and regulations will be the reason for the satisfaction of Polish patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u171	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? If not, I close... Yet, please. One more Member. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz Club15. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! [[One-and-a-half, Your Marshal.]] [[Please.]] One-and-a-half or a minute? Okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u173	Please, one minute and I'll let you finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u174	The proposed system may direct hospitals to the maximum reduction of their medical procedures towards the patient. How will it be protected from hospital savings? If you consider that your procedures are insufficient, what authority will you be able to appeal to? Polish health care system has many shortcomings, and its underfunding is almost proverbial. The real question is, Is such a superficial reform able to change this situation? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For eight years, the Minister has taught us that no major reform must be made without increasing funding. Minister, as is the case with this law, so huge, where you are making changes, reforms, you are changing the system just without securing additional funding. That's the first point. The second is that the fundamental error of this law is that it is not based on quality or usefulness. If that were the case, it would probably be our agreement to discuss the network as well. At the moment, however, it may happen that important centres, including the mentioned cardiology or geriatrics, will absolutely not find their place just because they are outside the criteria that have been set by this law. And these criteria are absolutely incompatible with epidemiology and the health status of society. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u177	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u178	Thank you very much. It is no secret that Silesia and Silesians will be hit most by the introduction of the law on so-called. hospital networks. [[It's not a secret.]] Therefore, I ask you directly: Is it true that, as a result of the revolutionary reform of the health system, only half of the hospitals will disappear in Silesia? At this moment 141 institutions operate in Silesia - I will add that it works well - and according to various estimates nearly 70 Today we know that it will be 18 marshal hospitals, a very large number of county hospitals and of course the vast majority of private hospitals. I also wanted to ask about these private facilities. Very often private hospitals serve the patient so phenomenally that the patient doesn't even know he's in a private hospital. He's interested that he doesn't pay for this service. He's served, he doesn't pay, he's happy. I wanted to ask you about the future of private facilities. Secondly, a very important question: What about the health safety of Silesians? It's not like you're gonna tell us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that if there are fewer hospitals, there will be fewer doctors, then twice as much patient service, twice as much medical care. Therefore, please answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u179	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Instead of improving the health care system, this bill will spread it. This is a very bad bill. Many good hospitals without guaranteed money from the National Health Fund have no chance of maintaining a high level of service, a comprehensive approach to the patient or a steady level of employment. There is also no question of development and investment, which is an extremely important issue in the healthcare system. The flat-rate system will demotivate doctors and disorganize the whole system. Hospitals on roaring will unfortunately pay more to care for a less ill patient in the hospital, which will be less expensive at the same time. The more sick patients requiring specialist treatment will be queuing themselves to large hospitals, because in small county hospitals, specialist troops will disappear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the PiS take into account the demands of experts in relation to the planned changes? When are you finally gonna fund the health care? You spend money on the right and left, and the health of Poles should be a priority. I have these questions: What funds will be allocated to the Żywiecki district, which is 153 thousand. The residents? Do you know what abusive conditions hospital patients are in? I don't know if you can imagine what the conditions are in Living. Thank you very much. [[What have you been doing for eight years?]] [[It's a mantra, eight years old. Nobody buys it. You guys were a year and a half, a whole year and a half.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u181	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two questions. Isn't there a concern that this differentiation in the way hospitals are financed may result in a narrowing of the base currently available to hospitals? Second question: Will the practice of hospital clinics leading patients continue during the first period after the operation, e.g. cardiosurgical? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the funding for medical services is growing at the moment, this is due to a system that is based on a contribution. This is because wages are growing and therefore the contributions are increasing. If the possibility of changing funding is considered, it is worth considering this very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u183	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If the reform comes into force, Poland will be the first and only country in the world to double the financing system for health protection in 20 years. There is no doubt that this is irresponsible, and the effects will be felt by citizens. Why are changes in an important area such as health care prepared without a thorough analysis of the impact of regulation? How does the projector refer to voices coming from the cardiac environment, which alarms that changes will drastically restrict patients' access to specialist cardiac care? And in the last ten minutes, I said: for many years no appointed minister has healed health care. If the reform comes into force, will you cure the health care, or are they just frozen ones? [[Voice from the hall: Frozen, ha, ha, ha.]] Like the predecessors, so do you have the power to hope for the nation. Will you really serve them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u185	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With such specific questions, I am addressing the Minister. It's about night care and Christmas care. You mentioned how great this was gonna be. So I ask the question: where are we going to take doctors to secure this care, if in medical programs, even in the medical program of family medicine doctors, there is no practice in night care and Christmas, and what is the valuation in night care and Christmas care? In POZ the valuation is growing and we further know that 13% is intended for POZ, while the night and Christmas so far is really far behind. The next question concerns anesthesiology. If all hospitals are within a radius of 100 km, and no anesthesiology is required, then how do you see the improvement in patients and the financing of anesthesiology, which will be in the roar, but will not be separated? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And, of course, the rehabilitation you didn't take, the rehabilitation hospitals. Each voivodship has at least two hospitals, typical rehabilitation hospitals with a long history, which actually only perform rehabilitation benefits. And saying it's gonna secure general hospitals or there's gonna be another way, it's not gonna work out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u187	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I address the Minister with an appeal and with great concern, also as a Member of the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, from the Pilski district, from northern Wielkopolska. It's about the Rehabilitation and Cardiology Hospital in Kowanówek. It is absolutely crucial for the safety of the residents of the districts: Obornicki, Szamotulski, Interchódki, Mr Czarnkowsko-rzcianecki - here I look at Mr Piła. It's absolutely crucial. The Sejmik of Wielkopolski Voivodship also expresses great concern that this cardiac hospital should be included in the network of hospitals, because we know what impact it can have when it is not on this network. I'll allow it, Minister, on my hand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister to submit a resolution of the Sejmik Województwa Wielkopolski in this matter, so that the hospital in Kowanówek in this network is included. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u189	Thank you very much, sir. I would very much like to invite Mr Arthur Gerada, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you: Do you know the situation that has occurred in the last few days in Świętokrzyskie voivodship, which is already called by the inhabitants by the next Starachowice affair, and undoubtedly shows the pathology that your law creates before it even entered into force? This case concerns a letter, a letter from one of the directors of the county hospitals in this city, interestingly enough, if it matters to anyone, a long-term law and justice activist who complains to President Kaczyński about the strong political pressure made by Mr Krzysztof Lipc, who once, that he is a Member of this district, two that he is the chairman of this party in the region. He says that Mr July pressures him to transfer from his contract, which he has with the National Health Fund, 20 million PLN - from an 80 million contract - to a private company, clinic, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is located in the same building as this hospital and also has the same range of services. How does Mr July explain it? One quote from his statement: Despite my good intentions to support the hospital in a context prepared for the introduction of the so-called. I've been asked to act against the hospital network. I think there are more comments here. It's okay. I just have a question, Minister: If you already have Misiewicz in MON, Pisiewiczów everywhere else, do you want to have July in health care? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u191	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In three joint committees: economy, health and self-government without the Minister's participation, I asked about the fate of patients who would not have access to services after the introduction of your proposed law. I also asked about consistency in the management of the state, because what else Prime Minister Morawiecki, and what else Minister Radziwiłł says in his projects. And I didn't get an answer. I ask you to answer these questions, because what you have sent me, I will gently call it a misunderstanding. In the Committee on Health, with your participation, Minister, I have already asked the authorized and asked by the president of the city of Bielska-Biała and the councillors at the session of February 28 about the fate of the Polish-American heart clinic. You called me a lobbyist in response. Minister, what will you then call this example of Mr July, which Mr Gierad was just talking about? I asked as an officially authorised Member at the Health Committee meeting, and that is the answer I received. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for an answer. And I ask you to reflect, Minister, and apologize to me publicly, otherwise I will refer the matter to the ethics committee, Senator, Minister, Senate ethics committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u193	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here's my question: Who do you dedicate this hospital network bill to? Certainly not patients - we already know that. All patient environments are against it, because it's only a deterioration of the quality of care for patients. Definitely not health workers. And if so, in which area? It was said here that family doctors might be potentially satisfied. They are not happy, on the contrary, criticizing this bill incredibly. Hospital directors - well, maybe a few in Poland, maybe a dozen or so. But in the vast majority, they are rather concerned about what awaits them. Politicians, I don't think so. Even if the representatives of your political background are criticizing it in the champ, I think there's something wrong here. Today in Poland, almost 50% of deaths and illnesses are caused by cardiovascular diseases. I have a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many cardiology hospitals, including intervention cardiology, are going to blow up a network? And the other thing. What about anesthesiology in the so-called. County Poland? In the light of the hospital network, most county hospitals do not need to have anesthetic protection. And if there's more than 100 kilometers of security to the nearest hospital, what about the patient? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u195	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about these hospitals, dozens of hospitals that won't get into the hospital network colloquially, or won't get a contract through a competition. Shouldn't these hospitals be encouraged to become long-term care hospitals, caring, rehabilitation, palliative? We are a society of the fastest ageing population, and we are not talking about this type of activity. or the geriatrics mentioned several times. What are we going to do with patients when tens of thousands of patients in Poland are waiting for treatments, cataract surgery, endoprotez? These are people who have been waiting in queues for many years. Locking down hospitals, the branches that were supposed to do it, will make the queues even longer. All patients need to be told about this, too. Finally, I would like to quote once again the statement of the Minister, the Doctor, from 2007 - that is also my hope - that the present project will share the fate of the previous ones and will never enter into force, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Otherwise, we are threatened with centralism and etatism on an unprecedented scale in any modern country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u197	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u198	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are still investigating the bill, it has not yet been adopted by the Sejm, and already the Members of the opposition are talking about pathology and tracking the issue. [[When do I talk?]] The opposition threatens with armageddon, hospital liquidation and reduced access of patients to doctors, causing anxiety and fear completely unjustified. The bill is needed, it's expected, but it's also brave. It organizes and regulates what has been neglected over the years and what today's opposition, the Civic Platform, has run out of ideas or simply lack of courage. Minister, is it true that patient lines to doctors will not extend? [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] and what mechanisms will be used to reduce queues? Because that's the assumption. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u199	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u200	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am aware that health care is in a very poor financial condition. Hospitals have huge debts that have increased in the last 8 years of PO-PSL governments. The current health situation leaves a great deal to be desired about patients - precisely patients. Long queues, lack of coordinated medical care cause very much dissatisfaction among patients. That's why I have a question for the Minister. Will the planned reform of the hospital network contribute to ensuring that the patient has comprehensive, coordinated medical care at the hospital and after leaving home and will he have rapid rehabilitation guaranteed? I would also like to reply to Mr Kosiniak-Kamish. Yes, in Podkarpacie, in Przemyśl, two hospitals were connected, but you have to ask yourself why. Mr. Marshal of the Voivodship has taken over the hospital from President Przemyśl, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because he was in such debt that he wouldn't be able to function. We are just saving the situation, sir. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u201	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You are preparing a great revolution in the organisation of health care, and you have no strategy. Here's the question. Do you have a calculated number of hospitals that will close down? Will the money you spend, about PLN 3 billion, be enough for all these hospitals and to provide care for patients? What about night care and Christmas care in cities that had hospitals so far, and now there will be no hospitals that will have contracts? And one last question, ladies and gentlemen. I have a question for the Minister about the time when you were very keenly representing and supporting the protest of the Zielona Góra Agreement, the form of protest consisting of the fact that there were postcards on the front door of the clinic - on the front door of the clinic, which was closed in silence - with phone numbers to doctors who were supposed to be answering these phones. Minister, do you want me to tell the hospital directors in my voivodeship that they're gonna be closed so they can hang phone numbers on the door to you or to the Prime Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u203	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My questions concern a systematic approach to the qualification of financing the basis for securing hospital benefits. In the framework of the public-funded health care reform, will any hospital with contracts with the National Health Fund provide clinics at the hospital? How will the financing of full hospitalisation benefits be carried out by hospitals that have a hospital emergency unit or an emergency room at the same time? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u205	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club. There isn't. So here you go, Mr Edward Sulfur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, let me quote the text I received today. He's referring to the queue issue. And does what we offer in new legal solutions guarantee us that we will stop with this queue pathology? Namely, the text reads as follows: Fire at the headquarters of the National Health Fund. The server room ignited when trying to process data on patient queues by 2045. So they call the fire department and report they're on fire. The firefighter responds: as for the National Health Fund, we have a free date in February 2019 and you must have your own snake, but as privately, we can be there in 10 minutes. It's a little bit of a picture of our health care department today... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Zenada.]] ...after eight years of rule of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] That's what it looks like. So the question, Minister: Is there any chance that these queues, which are a burden to our system, and actually cause, in many cases, where people need help, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They don't get it, they're gone after the reform? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u207	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I will join Members asking about rehabilitation hospitals. Why does the Minister exclude rehabilitation hospitals, often with a long tradition - I know a few such - hospitals where high-class specialists are employed? In these hospitals orthopedic surgery is carried out at a very high level, they are put on the feet of Poles after severe accidents and serious diseases. The cut-off is the liquidation of these hospitals, it's a huge, unimaginable loss for patients. Why didn't the Minister go to the trouble of making such a significant change in the assessment of the consequences of excluding these hospitals from financing? This idea of healthcare reform, we can't really talk about reform here, but this law [[♪ The bell ♪]] will have tragic consequences for Poles. You still have time to get out of this crazy idea. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u209	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u210	Dear Marshal! High Seym! One of the main effects, and immediately, the introduction of this law will be a large, huge number of hospitals that will lose their contract with the NFZ-et, so patients will lose the possibility of treating themselves free of charge in these hospitals. And I would like to ask the simplest question: If we leave the same amount of money for health care, the number of patients is similar, and there are much fewer hospitals, will the queues be smaller or larger? Of course they'll be bigger, much bigger. Patients will have difficult access to specialists, their health will deteriorate, and some may not be able to get to the specialist. The idea that the minister should centrally determine which hospitals would be able to work and which would not, is based on some insane ideology, I don't know, communist, but probably unrealized by the right hand. It's not a big surprise that you're shutting down hospitals. Professor Religa already said there were too many hospitals, he thought there should be fewer hospitals, but at least he had the courage to say that he had such views. You're doing this, you're just hiding it behind some big words about trying to reform health care. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u211	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u212	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Health care is all about availability and quality of medical services. As we know, both leave much to be desired and the ministry's efforts to improve this situation are not too visible. And certainly the recipe for improvement will not be this flawed law on hospital networks, but activities in the area of geriatrics, pediatrics, cardiology or in the area of nurses, doctors, interns, resident doctors. But I have half a minute, so I just want to ask you a simple question. I hear from the Ministry of Health that the entry into force of this law will reduce queues to specialist doctors. Tell me what a wonderful way to reduce waiting for specialized medical services without increasing the number of specialists. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u213	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u214	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the assumptions for this reform, this change we are talking about the patient, about improving his fate, about taking care of him. Why, since we have such lofty ideas, we are not able to say, publish or share this debate for the sake of clarity... I can't believe you don't have that list of hospitals online. We, as parliamentarians, are responsible for what we have created after the vote, and, after the vote, we will only be responsible for giving the Minister the opportunity to set up this network in a way that is not entirely clear, not entirely clear. Or is it a margin of discretion? Minister, for many years as a self-government officer also in negotiations [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Kopacz and I had the opportunity to meet with you. You've been working effectively as a trade unionist for basic health care. Why didn't you come forward, knowing that without the increase in spending, we wouldn't improve the functioning of health care by additional amounts in the budget? Why? Do you still have to take the money out of that bag that's barely enough for anything? For who? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u215	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Four short questions. Isn't there a risk that budgeting will cause some hospital directors to close their debts or reduce their debts at the expense of patients? Second question: Will the activity or inactivity of hospitals have an impact on the financing of the facility in the next period of settlement? Is there any way in this law to limit bureaucracy so that, above all, nurses are more concerned with treatment and less about the bureaucracy they are currently working on? Finally, I would like to support the appeal of the Wielkopolska community in the case of the hospital in Kowanówek, about cardiology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u217	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Over the past few years, we have been able to see that revolutionary changes in health care are not solving anything, they are not serving anything, especially just after the introduction of the system of sickness registers. We barely saw the first positive effects of this system, it was centralised into a single National Health Fund. Today you are leading to another such a great revolution, the consequences of which we cannot predict. I don't think you can predict them either, even though you're a doctor with years of experience. Why, Minister, you want to replace some of the few elements of competition today, but yet a competition that forces efficiency that forces a patient to act to save money, and yet there is not too much of it in the system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to replace these remaining competition elements with logarithms? Even the most perfect logarithm will never replace competition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u219	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask, actually, I have three short questions. One thing: What happens when the hospital runs out of this lump sum e.g. Three months before the end of the year? Until now, when the money was running out, there were so-called ones. Over-execution. And what's going to happen to a patient in a heavy state who's gonna be standing at the door and there's no alternative to looking for another hospital where the money's still there? Secondly, what will the accounts be like? Will the bureaucracy actually end, or is it: is it standing, or is it lying, this budget is due? How will it be known that one hospital - there have already been such questions - works and the other does not? And another important question, also from my own garden: Will high-specialization procedures be secured, where the cost of one procedure is often 200,000.? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The hospital's budget might not be enough for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u221	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm addressing the Minister with questions. How many hospitals are going to be wound up? Will a system for assessing the quality of health services be introduced and when? This is the last field that is not controlled in Poland. I wanted to ask you if it's true that a patient treated in a given hospital will be able to count on specialist help at the hospital's infirmary when he leaves this hospital, and not as it is today, he will be sent back to the general queue for months. I also wanted to ask if the hospitals would finally start treating patients, not just clearing procedures with the NFZ. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u223	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, do you know that 72 healthcare providers will not enter the hospital network in Silesian Voivodeship? Only 69 will enter. I know that you have calculations that say that 91% the funds must go to flat rates, 9% for competitions, but with an ageing society, while many mono-specialist hospitals are being created, while doctors are leaving, that medical training is not developed, is this delicate tissue, which is the health care, however, not subject to calculations? The effects of this law, as stated in the BAS analysis, cannot be predicted. I would ask the Minister for information on which monospecialized hospitals will not enter the network and what the effects of the law on the private hospital market will be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u225	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Respecting Minister's time, I'll ask you to answer in writing. I have the following questions. What is the debt of Polish hospitals, from which it came, and how will it affect the need to build the system in question? That's the first line. I mean, what was the impact of self-government policy, among others. the closure of specialised branches, as it has affected the financial situation of hospitals and the fact that patients are protected by basic security in access to benefits. On many occasions, the way to finance hospitals was that these branches were being closed down. At present, these hospitals may provide basic benefits and, consequently, the sums of money they receive are low. The next issue is the imbalance in the salaries of nurses and middle-class staff. Will the valuation of services also include the need to bet, that so colloquially it is a term, this provision by mid-level staff, i.e. by nurses? Because not only do doctors heal, but they do the doctor's job. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u227	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As usual, the opposition hystericalizes, says untruths, scares, wants to cause anxiety among society. It says that the bill threatens the stability of the system and will lead to the collapse of many hospitals. [[And eliminating 80% of hospitals in Silesia is what?]] This bill is the beginning, ma'am, of the next reform that Law and Justice committed to during the election campaign. Health needs to be reformed, the current system does not meet the expectations of patients above all. The biggest threat, however, would now be competitions for all types of health services, which would result in the sharing of money into more healthcare units, the sharing of patients on worse and better, more expensive and cheaper. Minister! Isn't it that this bill stabilizes the health care system in hospitals and gives patients equal access to health care? And I address Mr Miller. Sir, you're not here... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] [[We have a committee right now.]] ...but you say we don't have a strategy. We have a strategy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the courage to introduce these reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u229	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my previous term in the Health Committee, I have often heard that it takes time to change health care. Today, the opposition states that this must be done immediately. I am pleased that you believe in our possibilities, that this can be completely changed within a few months. However, it must be remembered that it was during your governments that there were random contracts for individual benefits, long queues, no doctors. It all happened. Today you want it to disappear. It is important to remember that this law is intended to change the way the funds are distributed, which are in the budget, and not to be a cure for all evil. Another bill ahead of us. However, it is clearly worth asking the Minister why these three areas, which we often ask here, were not included in the hospital network. I understand that there will be separate competitions for this and there will be contracting in particular fields, such as geriatrics, rehabilitation or psychiatry. But maybe it's worth saying it again 'cause that's a bunch of lies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And talking here requires a comment. And did you, as the Ministry of Health, take care of... [[That's what you're gonna say to the minister.]] ...about reaching out to doctors, hospitals, patient circles, telling us what this bill really brings together, to at least minimize the lies that fell in this room? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u231	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Have such deep analyses been carried out, how many private hospitals and clinics will actually fall? Because that's how it's gonna be, there's no doubt about it. It is not right that the state shows once again that the citizen cannot trust you, because at first it is called for private entrepreneurs to invest in the Polish economy, in health protection, and then one decision prevents them from doing so. I have the impression, Minister, that at meetings of the Council of Ministers, you are racing, who will make a bigger mess of Mr Kaczyński's reform. At the moment, I do not know whether you will win Minister Zalewska or Minister, but it is sad that in both cases you are experimenting: once on patients and once on pupils. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u233	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u234	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to ask you a question, namely how the PiS government will approach private hospitals that have received the support of the European Union and have to operate for at least 5 years under the terms of the grant, and the introduction of this law with such funding could actually jeopardise their continued operation or simply lead to their liquidation. Were its negative effects foreseen in the implementation of this reform, especially for patients? As an economist, I remember that in college we were taught first and foremost to make decisions in three options: optimistic, pessimistic and neutral. Here I see only a vision of optimistic news, which then ends in the same way as tree cuttings or other country decisions. In addition, I would like to ask: How many hospitals will be left without funding due to the introduction of a flat-rate system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u235	Thank you very much, Member. The Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the opportunity to express many reflections and answers to questions here. This will not only be the answers, but it will also be many different references, because some of you did not actually ask questions, but simply reflected, a little on the margins, sometimes in a not too much connection with the project that you are considering. I'd like to start by referring to the club appearances. Thank you very much to the Law and Justice Club for paying attention to some very important aspects of the existing system. Competition, a phenomenon of other things very right, generally conducive to quality, has recently become a kind of god in health services, and we are certainly dealing with, as Mr Tadeusz Dziuba has pointed out, with a competition that destroys, first of all, those who are simply about health security for Poles. The bill that the government has prepared ensures the safety of hospitals. It's not a threat to hospitals, it's a threat to the safety of hospitals, the real ones. It doesn't matter whether they're public or private. It's about real hospitals. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: What are the real ones? New division.]] I do not know if you know that in the Polish system, we have almost 1,100 hospitals in the Polish hospital registers... [[And what's the real thing?]] ...but there are hospitals among them that have five beds, two beds or even one bed. If someone considers these individuals to be one hospital and compares them to those who have more than 1,000 beds, then they simply need to measure their words by talking about these numbers of supposedly disappearing hospitals. Surely these hospitals, which constitute the safety of Polish patients, can feel safe. Finally, very important words on the rationalisation of the system. Today, this system serves those who want to do some business in it more than those who actually protect Poles in their health problems. Patients know this first and foremost, but health professionals, managers, also know it. Of course, it is common to expect that health services in Poland need more resources, I also share them, but it should also be noted that those existing ones need to be spent rationally. We'll never have the comfort to have enough money in the health care system. They will always have to be weighed by their wise spending, and one of the effects of this unwise, unwise allocation of resources that have been born in recent years is the enormous dispersion of these funds and contracts. And that's what this bill is about to prevent. And finally, patients. They may also feel safe, because we do it for them, for no one else. The number of those who seem to disagree with a project that has been exchanged by at least a few Members of the opposition does not correspond with what we are doing. We're just doing this so that patients don't have to look for a chance in an unfriendly complex and inaccessible system. They must go where the treatment is organized for them under the public health system. Thank you very much to the representative of the Civic Platform for presenting extensive quotations from my statements more than 10 years ago. I think it's just that waiting for some people to make decisions, people who have nothing behind them, come out of nowhere, have no experience, no thoughts, it's just wrong ground. I'm not ashamed of the place I came from and the experiences I have. I am a thinking man who, over many years, has learned to be involved in the health system, and I am not ashamed of that. The words that have been cited here are critical words in relation to the idea of sleep. Professor Religion, when it comes to the network of hospitals, was an expression of concern at the time, and I am not ashamed of those words. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Now is another time.]] Today it is already difficult to address this exactly, probably there was still a lot to fix in this project, and I think that because of the stage at which this project has taken place, this cannot be denied either. This project stopped at the stage of the project, among others. because the Civic Platform stopped the possibility of continuing this change after the change of government, because it was recently prepared. [[And that's what we're gonna do now.]] There was probably a chance that this project could be further refined. I would like to draw your attention to the quotations that a Member representing the Civic Platform has also said many different words in the past and can be found very easily on the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen, e.g. private and public health services - although they are needed, clear rules must be described. It's just words that can actually be applauded, isn't it? [[And correct.]] These are the words of the Member. [[But it's true.]] You announced setting up a network of strategic hospitals in 2012. The cancer treatment network is supposed to decide who can cure cancer and who can't. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the things we're doing today, of course, after appropriate adjustment... [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Epidemiology, exactly.]] ...because the levels of oncology hospitals, as well as specialist hospitals, hospitals so-called. nationwide, these are some of the elements of this network. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Epidemiology.]] So it's probably just that everyone who at any point thought about how health care should be organized has noticed that it needs to be regulated a little bit rather than left a free American who unfortunately has developed today on a scale that is completely unacceptable. [[Central Health Committee.]] I don't know why horrible words were made in the context of this bill about reducing the number of residents. When the Member was Minister of Health, e.g. in the last full year, when you were Minister, in 2014, the residency throughout the year was granted 3036 and granted - because doctors do not always agree with the proposals, just as at the moment - was 2980. In the first full year of my work there were 4647 granted residents, in 2016. [[That's $2,000. less than in 2015.]] I'm talking about the full year, the last full year of the Minister and the first full year of my running the ministry. We've admitted 3056 residents. [[You've reduced it by 2,000. the number of residents.]] These are just facts. [[2,000. less than a year ago.]] These are just facts. [[But why are you referring to 2014? By 2015]] Many words have been made here about the centralization of the system, which is supposed to take place in connection with the organisation of the hospital network. Even such unflattering words have been uttered. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no central decisions in this bill, and in any case there are very, very few of them. [[How can you not?]] [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: You do not know this bill.]] The only decision that comes downtown, which is in parliament, is to decide on the criteria that we're going to follow, including hospitals as a network. [[What do you mean?]] There was talk of the project being changed. This is proof that we think, listen to those who have something to say. Please note that more and more voices are being heard, that we are just doing it too slowly. And at the same time, on the other hand, there is a charge of revolutionary drives, which shows that you are extremely inconsistent. [[But that's what your hacks say.]] [[It's the old man from Rzeszow.]] You also spoke of a roar that is supposed to demobilise hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill states expressis verbis that the lump sum is dependent on hospital activity. There is no doubt that a hospital that fails to perform the benefits will receive a smaller lump sum in the next settlement period. The one who makes more of them gets a bigger one. [[Of what?]] At the same time, the lump sum will be accompanied by the financing of certain benefits - the entire long list, which is still being drawn up, because it is the subject of a regulation - which will be financed separately. This means no less, no less, that in some, depending on the type of hospital, even more than half of the benefits will be financed on the basis of the existing rules, i.e. the art of the provided service. [[Why change?]] Reflection on night and holiday medical care, which will be near the emergency room or hospital emergency department, is clearly welcomed by most of those who have experience in the hospital emergency department and long-term expectations in its queue, where patients who are severely ill are mixed with those who simply have not come to primary health care. This solution will certainly contribute to the well - being of the sick, especially the most severe ones. [[Depends on the funding.]] [[That we're all together?]] So far, during their reigns, the state has implemented an idea for a market in health care. That didn't work out so well. The critical view of what we are dealing with is certainly a good basis for noticing that what is lacking in the Polish health service is the responsibility of the state... [[Central Committee.]] ...which results, ladies and gentlemen, directly from the Constitution. It is the public authorities that are responsible for ensuring that everyone is protected by health, so that every citizen can have equal access to public-funded healthcare services. Unfortunately, these conditions are not met today. Finally, the subject of concern about some specialties. Ladies and gentlemen, the geriatrics here have been said a lot. I would like to say, by the way, that most specialists who deal with the problems of old or old people say that geriatric hospital is not the best place for them to prepare geriatrics, but not to hospitalize their patients, but to consult on those who are hospitalized in other departments. This is a model that is being implemented in most countries around the world. But take it easy, ladies and gentlemen. Most geriatric procedures can be carried out at levels I and II of hospitals in the internist departments. On Level III geriatrics is a normal element, it is a profile that will be included in the network. I am surprised that people who have a lot of experience in health care are constantly talking about rehabilitation or hospital psychiatry. [[Why am I surprised?]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are different ranges. This is a solution that has been in force for years. It doesn't change, so you shouldn't mess with the network at all. [[But it's said on the face.]] As far as concerns about cardiology are concerned, according to our calculations today it can be said that 75% of the machine's intervention cardiology enters the network, and probably a large part of the remaining units, participating in competitions, will simply receive contracts on the same terms as before. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Why can't it be written in the level?]] Speaking of cardiology, ladies and gentlemen, a little... [[You're putting in cardiology.]] ...I wanted to say something about her, starting with the speech of one Member at the Committee on Health, who also expects me to apologize - I don't quite understand it - who just... At first I thought - I'm sorry, I don't know all the Members - that a member of the board of directors of one of the medical companies is speaking. [[You're overreacting, Minister.]] That's what it looked like. This Member spoke about the concrete results of a specific facility, which is one of the elements of the network... [[A little elegance.]] ...which I will not mention because I see no reason to refer to a specific name. This is a large network of private profit-oriented units. [[What's the profit?]] In my opinion, there should be no discussion at all on this subject in Parliament. [[Absolutely. But about the hospital in Żywiec, yes.]] It's obviously my personal judgment, but I feel a little awkward. I believe that it is simply indecent to talk about this, whether it is by a Member, whether it is at a committee meeting, or even more so in plenary. [[What about the hospital in Kowanówek?]] I'm not gonna apologize for noticing anything like that. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the degree of involvement of some other Members of the opposition in this very... [[A deal.]] ...the subject, I have to say, it really looks like... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Agreement.]] ...realizing someone's business. [[Member of Beat Małecka-Libera: Interest of patients.]] I'm sorry, but this is my personal view, which I can't change. This is really something to think about, before I say so, this activity, which is also visible at this moment in the room, will continue. [[Let's see how the P.O.O. Act works.]] This is something that doesn't belong here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: What about private Poz?]] [[And the private POZ will be good?]] [[The truth hurts.]] [[It hurts a patient at the hospital.]] Two representatives of the Modern Party spoke about a few problems that I would like to address. I did not fully understand how Mr Kozłowski derived from the bill, from the draft law introducing a network of hospitals, that there would be fewer doctors and nurses. It's quite surprising, in my opinion, conclusions. He also developed, i.e. He was talking about things that had nothing to do with this bill. He was talking about the anti-patientity of this law, while it is in this law that it is written just how the patient is to be treated at admission to the hospital. Many Members have talked about a new approach to lump-sum financing, where greater flexibility and a shift away from the pursuit of procedures, especially these expensive procedures, will be replaced by focusing rather on comprehensive comprehensive patient care. Finally, there is a supplement to hospital treatment when it comes to many patients who need it, specialist care in clinics and even rehabilitation when necessary. In my opinion, this is proof that the anti-patient thesis is basically false. On the other hand, Mr Marek Ruciński from the same party spoke in the second part... [[From the other party!]] ...or ask questions about non-public hospitals, afraid we're losing them around here somewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a complete misunderstanding. [[Why are you so surprised and surprised?]] Nowhere in the law, in any of the places where the criteria for inclusion are mentioned, there is no question of the form of ownership of hospitals. It has absolutely no meaning whether the hospital is public or non-public. The fact is that in Poland among what I call real hospitals, most, overwhelming majority, fortunately, are public hospitals. If you count their power, their importance the value of the benefits they perform, this is indeed a definite advantage. Thus, among hospitals that go online, public hospitals do prevail, but it is not a matter of choosing precisely these hospitals. According to our analysis of the measures that will be used to finance the benefits provided on the networks, this is 91% Hospitalisation funds, indeed only around 4% will consume non-public hospitals, but this is not the result of someone's decision, but simply from a certain calculation. It depends on which level it is. For example, on the first level, which is these small hospitals, it's going to be almost 15%. On the oncology level it's also about 15% Because that's just the ownership structure. On the other hand, in other areas, e.g. It's hard to look for non-public units among clinical hospitals, institute hospitals. They're not there. Therefore, it is indeed 100% We're going to public hospitals... [[And the POZ?]] ...but it doesn't come from any prejudice... [[Poz!]] ...a decision, just from the facts that exist. [[He pretends he can't hear.]] As far as 91 to 9, this division is concerned, not everyone, ladies and gentlemen, is aware of this, once again very strongly I would like to say that it is not a matter of certain assumptions, plans, intentions, but of the calculation of the facts of 2015. Simply in the case of those benefits that will be implemented according to the plan on the network, 91% of benefits were realised in 2015. measures. That's what happened. We rewrite the same thing for the future, nothing changes here. It's not like we're making some decision-making shifts here. The Member also reiterated the thesis about some centralisation of this solution. Exceptional decisions made by the Minister of Health, and in principle by the director of the voivodeship branch after obtaining the opinion of the Minister of Health, about the classification of an individual who does not meet the criteria, are unique to the network and, of course, will not be arbitrary. They will be individuals, specific individuals, which some here in the Chamber have asked about. [[We were lobbying.]] For those questions, forgive me, for the same reason I've already mentioned, I won't answer. [[Because it was lobbying.]] These are the units that are simply necessary to secure the benefits of this basic hospital security. That's the rule. You were worried about the investments. This investment bill doesn't really say anything, but I'm paying attention to it because there was a question about how to support investment. Ladies and gentlemen, investments in health care are needed, but first of all smart investments are needed... [[Wisdom is needed everywhere. It's a slogan.]] ...which fit in with real health needs, and are not fulfilling someone's ambitions, intuitions, sometimes even carried out in good faith. We have therefore introduced a tool, which is already very highly rated. It's called. IOWISZ, an instrument for assessing investment proposals in the health sector, which simply allows investors, these potential investors, to assess their idea. And we already have examples today when investors change their views on what they could spend public money on, whether it's local or EU. We are already at the level of about 400 ratings of this kind. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a solution that is conducive to the fact that the means in the service should not be wasted. You were also talking about elements like... You were also worried about the continuity of treatment, about complexity. This law directly introduces this type of solution: the complexity of treatment through a lump sum, which creates the possibility of a more flexible approach to the patient - not the search for the best procedure on which the individual can get better, only the comprehensive treatment that will be best for this patient - and continuity by the fact that the patient who has been discharged home will not have to look for a specialist in the city who will continue this care. The hospital will provide this to him, and in those situations where he needs to be rehabilitated. [[For what?]] It's a question of quality. The question is whether the quality problem that arises is quite surprising - I am not talking about the Member here, but very many other opposition representatives - because we have not yet heard about this quality in health care. In fact, it can be said that something that is such a flagship slogan in the discussion on health care, health systems in the world, which is precisely the quality of health care, patient safety, in the Polish circulation has hardly yet appeared. Unfortunately, and that must be acknowledged, we have a problem here too. Since we do not have quality indicators, we cannot apply them directly, but nevertheless it is in this law that we predict that in the range of about 5% we will modify the lump sum according to the quality indicators that are available, e.g. such as Quality Monitoring Centre certificates, such as paying attention to the performance of certain highly specialised services, such as placing a greater emphasis on outpatient care than on keeping a patient in a hospital. So what's available is what we bring here. also to modify the amount of the lump sum. Finally, the subject that appears in a few questions is these transformations, connections, as some say, irrational, because hospitals are not in one location, but are at some distance from each other. Ladies and gentlemen, this law does not, under any circumstances, introduce an order or force anyone to make such decisions. I'm very keen on that. However, I think that she - and this is the positive effect of this law - before it worked, became such an additional incentive for hospital owners, especially for local government units, to note that for management reasons it is worth thinking about another organization of their units, e.g. It's about combining two units or some other transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the people who are sitting here in the gym are people who know a lot about the health system. After all, we know well that if there are two similar entities that are not necessarily very close to each other, they are slightly more distant, they can be managed in a coordinated way - through joint shopping, through joint accounting, through various other common accompanying services - moreover, thinking that already the distribution of the medical effort itself, e.g. troops, in one hospital may complement the other. The idea is not to duplicate each other and compete with each other, which is the norm today, including among public hospitals. And if such decisions - I assume, rational decisions - are made by people responsible for hospitals, it is only necessary to applaud them. I have the impression that some have just been afraid to make these decisions for a long time, and the appearance of this law may be a little bit of an excuse for some people who might argue against it. The point is, it's just better that way. I believe it is. I believe that those who make decisions about connections - I repeat once again, these are not decisions of the Minister of Health - do so wisely to create better conditions for these individuals. Mr Marek Owa, presenting his position, was also concerned about the private sector. I have already talked about this, so I just want to point out that this private sector, which at the moment represents - in value, in terms of performances - 4% hospitalisation benefits, it is not, once again, a matter of our decision. You're demanding a list of hospitals that will be online. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not presenting this list precisely because it is not the Minister of Health who will build this list or write it. [[Self-government.]] I hear the Minister of Health already has lists of hospitals in voivodships prepared by the directors of voivodship branches. There's no such letter, ladies and gentlemen. I'll calm you down for that. Every hospital director - and I see a couple of these in the O.R. - knows perfectly well if his hospital... He just knows what this unit looks like, if it fits the network, and if so, which level. What's more, those directors who feel some anxiety about whether it's going to happen, for example. They manage a hospital that doesn't fit into this network, they know exactly what the way to possibly be on that network is. Such conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, I do have a lot on my desk because these directors just know it, it's no secret. [[It would be good for the Minister to know.]] We're not making any letters here because it's not the job of the Minister of Health. The task of the Minister of Health was to prepare the criteria which I hope the State will accept as a method of entering the network of those entities which simply have to meet these conditions. You called for an extension of your time, for a transfer of the date of entry into force of this law, but, ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that public works... The work started even earlier, but the public work, i.e. the first public consultation, started one year before the entry into force of this law in October. Let me see how many settings there were, for example. in the previous parliamentary term, which has been worked in an open, public way for so long, in dialogue with the various social, inter-ministerial, parliament, outside parliament, etc. This really is one of the few examples of legislation that is being prepared for so long. [[Only the protests made you do it.]] And the fact that it's been so long makes some people nervous because they want to go faster, but the point is to really listen to all those who have something to say about it. I also draw attention to this - such a technical issue - those who call for it to be introduced later, that this would mean great trouble, of which everyone has already realized since 2012, when the last contract was awarded. Then he was gone. Why? Because we simply cannot afford a competition in Poland, because it would only threaten the health system, and above all those institutions, which are so important for the protection of patients. The contracts are over, and we just have to come up with a solution other than a contest, because this contest would end badly. On behalf of PSL, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, Minister Kosiniak-Kamish spoke. He talked about the importance of self-government, which is apparently not important to the government. I assure you, Minister, Mr President, that these are local government units, especially those at low levels, especially those at the very same time. The county elders are happy with this bill. Many of them say that they see [[Joy in the Chamber]] A chance... [[Where?]] ...for your hospitals, for your safety, for the stability of your units. [[That one guy from Rzeszow.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have been very bad examples in recent years. [[Bad and good.]] I always reach for this most dramatic example, the hospital in Krosno Odrzański, which as a result of the stupid - so to say - the decision was commercialized, privatized and then simply disappeared from the map. And there's no hospital in the county. These are the actions of the previous government, the previous government. We are repairing this by the fact that such a hospital today self-governments in this county are rebuilding it, because it can be said that they are rebuilding it in a mosquito. I'm sure a hospital like this on the Internet would have a safe place. And it certainly would not happen what happened that today patients from all over Krosnień County must seek help outside their county. [[But come on, come on.]] This is simply a scandal that will not happen under this law. [[Then fix it and don't complain.]] You were also talking about queues that seem to grow or... in any case don't decrease. Well, Minister, I'd like to reassure you. We do not yet have comprehensive 2016 data, but I can tell you initially that the 73 ranges of the queue have significantly decreased. There's a few places where they've grown a little bit, but not a lot. In general, there is no reason to be too happy, right, because these queues are unfortunately still a stigmatization of our health system. Many of my predecessors said: queues must be, because this is a situation that happens in every health care system. I'm not confirming that. And we want to fight it, but it's not what you say. I'm really asking you to take this because it's data. The lines are dropping. In many areas They're shrinking. And if you count it differently, I mean. Given the number of benefits ordered, it turns out that patients are simply provided with multiple times more than in previous periods. These are just facts. You say you sow anxiety. Oh, for God's sake, who's causing this anxiety? The Lord speaks of a catastrophe, of fear, of unbelievable things that are to be done. That's not gonna happen. [[That's what you're saying. I was quoting you.]] Easy, easy, nothing bad's gonna happen. Hospitals will be secured. The patients will be able to feel safer in those very hospitals of theirs that won't disappear from the map... [[To be specific, to be specific.]] You were talking about those hospital mergers again. I'm gonna go with that, but it's not really like that. If there are mergers, it's up to their owners. And I believe they make those decisions wisely. Why... And you also said... [[You've said that before.]] I said and I repeat because I want to address the questions that are being asked. You said there was widespread resistance. He's not common, I assure you, he's very loud, that's for sure. Why? Here's where I'm gonna put it. Maybe a dwarf thesis. Because those who generate this resistance have a lot of money that they have made in this poor health care system. This is the main source of this resistance. [[Applause]] [[Minister, I think that's an exaggeration.]] Bad interests in the health system You can't do that anymore. This is one of the things we work for. [[Applause]] [[A private poser bows down.]] Ms. Anna Siarkowska asked what would happen to those who would not be online in those 9%. Once again - not everyone knows how it happens - I note that nothing changes here. The system of competitions and obtaining contracts based on competitions will simply look the same as before, nothing changes. You asked about psychiatry, about rehabilitation. Once again, these are the ranges that simply do not apply to the networking. This is due to the existing legislation. I repeat, I don't want to talk about specific hospitals. This is a matter of our contacts. There you go, if anyone wants to ask about a particular hospital, then of course you can explain. We are prepared for individual consultations, but, ladies and gentlemen, here we are talking about systemic changes, not about a specific location or a specific hospital. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan - thank you very much for seeing this comprehensive care that we are introducing. [[Thank you, too.]] It's something very important and it's a really big change. Today, as a result of this marketisation of the health system, we are faced with a continuous chase, whether individuals, or within individuals after patients better, avoiding, unfortunately, the temptation to avoid the worse, as well as searching for better procedures and avoiding the worse ones. The flat-rate financing of the network hospital will help to ensure that care is comprehensive. The patients are the most important in all of this. Mr Maciej Masławski of Kukiz.15 asked, it has basically nothing to do with this bill, but asked where... [[If there isn't, don't answer.]] ...a patient can complain or return if something is wrong. I would just like to remind you that there are a number of such institutions, from the director of the hospital through the National Health Fund, the district ombudsman in the field, whether it concerns a nurse or a doctor, to a court even if necessary. And - very interesting, thank you for noticing - you said that this reform is only partial or superficial. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a revolution, it's true. You have formulated this as a charge, but I accept it simply as a certain reference to all of us to a certain order of things. Well, we have to be clear and clear: the hospital network is not a revolution, it's just a small part of organizing an important part of the healthcare system, which is hospitalization. That's it. That's it. And that's how it is. Moreover, it must be said that hospital networks, practically speaking, if we look at Western Europe in particular, actually operate in one way or another practically everywhere. And the financing of health services on such a market basis practically in countries with well-organized health systems does not happen. Further questions, from Beata Małecka-Libera, about cardiology and geriatrics. That's what I've been talking about, so I'm not gonna tell you again. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej talked about the disappearance of hospitals, about the fact that half the hospitals in Silesia will disappear. But, ladies and gentlemen, I've already mentioned that it's not like the hospital in the register is equal to the second hospital in the register. I assure you that these real hospitals in Silesia have nothing to worry about, and if they are hospitals or hospitals, or individuals that are registered as hospitals that carry out scheduled benefits, they simply can normally participate in the competition and obtain a contract on exactly the same terms as before - on the basis that they once obtained contracts in the past. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek asked about how to finance hospitals. I would like to emphasise once again that the lump sum is flexible. It's not like it's one amount once and for all. The claim in subsequent settlement periods depends on whether or not more benefits have been provided, but hospitals are also financed for procedures that are on a separate list. The entire long list of procedures will be seen in the regulation of the Minister of Health, whose draft was attached to the bill. Here funding will be on the same basis as before. Indeed, specialist procedures, especially those of high-specialism, will not be available everywhere, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the principles of the bill, because unfortunately it is that this specialist performed wherever someone has been able to open it does not always serve patients. It is simply because health benefits have to do with each other, because their quality depends very much on the number of benefits provided. If there is an entity that performs little of the benefits of a given kind, then one can be concerned simply about the safety of the sick. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska also asked about this continuation of treatment in outpatient specialist care. Once again, I strongly stress, this is a lump sum - both care in the hospital itself and, when necessary, hospital care in the hospital clinic, plus further rehabilitation. Mr Stefan Romecki, from Kukiz.15, said such very interesting words that we are the first and only country in the world to change health care once again. Well, Mr President, I can assure you that it is difficult to find among countries that do anything in health care at all, one that would say: we have a target system that does not need to be changed. This certainly is not the case, and certainly the introduction of a network of hospitals is not a revolution, an action that could be called turning the system upside down. It certainly isn't. And thank you for pointing out that the health care system should be a health care system. Yeah, I'm definitely confirming that, that's a very important thing for me -- that's what it's gonna be like. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert was concerned about the night's medical assistance to be organised by network hospitals. I draw attention to the fact that it's not like you said it was necessary to have family doctors on night care, because the requirements in this area are very low... [[That's not what I said.]] ...so these doctors just have to have an active right to perform... It's not polemic. I'm saying maybe not exactly precise, but... [[You misunderstood me.]] ...I would like to point out that in order to hire a doctor on night medical attention, he must simply have, in accordance with the regulations, an active right to pursue a profession, nothing more. I don't think finding such doctors would be such a big problem, and we certainly don't do it under the facility. I stress this very strongly: we do it for patients. Patients who today have difficulty accessing the hospital, because there are too many patients in the SOR or in the emergency room, even if some of them, you might say, should not be there. [[It's done by a POZ doctor.]] You were also worried about the anesthesiology or the O.T.A. hospital in the first degree. If you were to introduce the criterion of having an OIT in first degree hospitals, it is very easy to see on the map of Poland that 100 more hospitals would not be online. [[Which they're doing a procedure.]] 100 more first-degree hospitals wouldn't be online, so we introduced a rule that this isn't a criterion. I would like to point out very strongly that when it comes to this hospital, which has an OIT in its structure, and gets into the network, its lump sum includes this OIT, it cannot eliminate it, so that don't worry, everything here is as it should be. I have already talked about what Mrs Mirosława Nykiel has said, and I have no more to say. I don't think this is the place to discuss it. Mrs Lydia Gądek presented a kind of private survey of dissatisfaction and listed specific categories of people or whole environments that are supposedly dissatisfied with the idea of a network law. I do not know exactly where you did this research, but I can assure you that when it comes to patient environments in particular, in which it is very difficult to do such research, because it would have to be done by a national survey when it comes to patient organisations, I can assure you that it is not so bad at all, because we have very good contact with these organisations. Some of them asked a lot of difficult questions. Under the influence of these questions, we have made some changes, in any case this dialogue is good and in my opinion is very far-reaching acceptance and understanding of our proposals. Mr Marek Hok talked about offering hospitals which will not enter the network, transform into long-term care units. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone doesn't go online, it's going to be small hospitals, one-profile hospitals, probably hospitals with elective care contracts, so I don't think they're individuals who can be offered that kind of thing. These are mostly private facilities, and I think the owners should take care of what they plan. It's a small group of small facilities and really worried about some tens of thousands of people being fired and so on... There's no need for such conclusions here. As for the cataract you were talking about, I would like to point out that cataracts are on the list of benefits separately financed today in the draft regulation, and therefore network hospitals will be able to perform operations, and at the same time, if this is not enough, there will also be a competition for this benefit, for cataract surgery, so that I do not see any problem here. Thank you very much, Mrs Borowiak, for asking about the queues. This is, you can say, one of the most painful things that happens in the Polish healthcare system. Again, we're reducing... Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a tool that will make the queues disappear from the health system, and I'm not announcing it that far, because it's simply impossible in such a short time. What can happen and what will happen? For patients who are the sickest, we will be relieved by this solution. First of all, as soon as they get in, they get to the hospital, in those horrible lines at the SORs, but, ladies and gentlemen, mostly when they're discharged from the hospital and they don't have to look for a specialist somewhere in the city and wait in a very long queue. Same thing about rehab. This is a major change for patients. There is a good chance that those who are the sickest, the sickest, the most in need of consultation or specialist assistance will get it in such a way, by the fact that the network hospital will simply cry out and will be encouraged at the same time, because the lump sum will be modified depending on how many patients will receive post-hospital care. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska. Thank you for paying attention to the fact that there are elements of coordination and complexity, because this is, you can say, a certain novel. This is something that in a normal, healthy health system is a completely basic criterion of its quality. This is what we are introducing by the fact that the hospital cannot concentrate on doing single procedures, but must look at the patient as a whole. What do patients expect? Patients do not expect procedures, patients expect care and this will be given under these new solutions. Mr Rajmund Miller asked for night medical assistance outside the hospital. Nothing will change in this respect. There's gonna be competitions, so there's no worries. Where hospitals are further away from each other, where they will be far from where the hospital NPL will operate, they will probably be in the same places they have been so far. This is already the subject of the competition and it will take place on the basis of the existing rules. Besides, there are voivodships in which night-care contracts are longer, so that there will be no even need to organise a competition at all, those units that have functioned so far will continue to provide this assistance. As regards the reflection on basic health care, which has a loose connection with this project, I just wanted to point out that in 2015, 2015 and 2016 and in 2016 and 2017 we have not experienced any disturbance in this area for the first time. I don't know how it happened, but it's just... [[We know. It's a billion dollars.]] ...that unlike the previous years, when patients had to quake about whether their primary healthcare doctor had accidentally closed down his clinic... [[It won't.]] ...it's January 1st Ub. On 1 January this year, for the first time in a long time, we did not have any disturbances or even announcements in this regard. [[Because maybe you didn't heat it up.]] I didn't heat this conflict... Yeah, I treated my partners with respect, which, as it turns out, you can just talk to them normally. As far as you are concerned, sir, these pages you have been asking if you will be able to hang them on those units which will close so widely because they will not get on the net, I would like to tell you that some of these facilities are already ready for this or even start doing something like this. There are, for example. those facilities that, after we changed the unfairly overvalued cardiac benefits, began sending out scandalous letters to their patients to scare these patients into being charged with money for their treatment. It was a scandal, and I think it's worth paying attention. And somewhere in the neighborhood where you live. [[CBA.]] Plus, they're saying they're about to shut down these facilities, which obviously didn't happen. Few people remember that a few months ago, one of these private companies said they were going to lock down the facility in mass. Somehow you can't see these seals. Mr Sitarski from Kukiza once again asked about outpatient specialist care in hospitals, where hospital clinics are or where they are not. So where she is, all I can confirm is that it's going to be in the roar, and where she's not, where she hasn't been, there's just going to be a competition. Mr Edward Sulphur. Thank you very much for reminding us that speaking of what can be done, we forget the situation that is. Even one of the Silesian messengers said that everything works great there. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite surprising, because I must say that if you see any survey on what is wrong in Poland, then unfortunately - unfortunately for me too - [[You're talking about non-public hospitals.]] ...just the assessment of health care in Poland is terrible, isn't it? We really, regardless of the party colors, just have to see that it is. We cannot say that it works well something that - as everyone sees - works badly. We have to change it, fix it. Thank you for reminding me of that, because it's just that when we talk about the danger of something, some sort of incident that we don't anticipate, we don't take into account the alternative cost of leaving the case as it is right now. Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Platform asked about rehabilitation hospitals. Once again, I stress: this is a separate range and there will be competitions. Those competitions are gonna be here any minute now... [[But they could also be online.]] ...because contracts are running out, while hospital and day rehabilitation in a network hospital will be included in a roar with the obligation to offer it to patients who after the hospital require continuation of rehabilitation treatment. [[Even if she wasn't there, she will be.]] Mr. Tomasz Głogowski - I don't know why he said something about communism, I can't answer that reflection. [[Then don't answer that.]] With communism in 1974, I apologize for repeating this, but when the Member was born, I fought and know a little about what it was like. It was different. We're not going in that direction. Mr Jarosław Porwich made a statement quite interesting in the context of this law or at all ideas for reform that he could not imagine how to shorten the queue without increasing the number of specialists. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these organisational changes can be made. [[May I? Without money, can you?]] The number of specialists certainly cannot be changed overnight, few without money, just as the government of the Civic Platform and PSL has been doing for the last many years. [[And you said it was bad because you can't...]] This can be done differently by organizing it wisely, otherwise, coordinating care, giving comprehensive care solutions. [[No money.]] Mr Kazimierz Kotowski of the PSL calls for increased expenditure on health care. Well, I see that the coalition around this case is common and that's very good. [[That's great.]] Somehow, so far, the country from the Platform and the PSL have not been very fulfilling this request for many years. I am foretelling that - and the Prime Minister also said this - there will be an increase in expenditure, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is also something that I can say how echo can be repeated after previous people who managed the healthcare system: In order for this system to absorb more resources, there must be some order in it and we are doing this order. This is also very important. I would never be serious about savings in the health care system, but, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly need more rational management of these always limited measures. [[For 20 years, rational sealing.]] Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak asked about the question of a lump sum, how it depends on activity - I have already said that. He also rightly demanded that there be a chance to reduce the bureaucracy he eats, one might say, of health care. Thank you for pointing that out. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not possible to expect a revolution in this area from day to day, but among others. the flat-rate method of settlement reduces the pressure on bureaucracy, on an ongoing basis, i.e. as regards the procedure, the report, the invoice, the remuneration. It's gonna be a little different. [[But it's gonna be the same thing.]] There will be less pressure on bureaucracy. I hope that we can reduce the burden a little bit, which rests on medical professionals and simply pulls staff away from patients. [[I'm sure it won't be any less.]] Mr Zbigniew Gryglas once again talked about how good competition is and here it is probably necessary to agree, in principle, that competition has its advantages, but, ladies and gentlemen, this competition that we have faced in the health service so far, whether we have yet, has really many pathological and even toxic features. [[Private POZ.]] The phenomenon, which in economics is called drinking cream, is simply common. And we're just done with that. Mrs Alice Chybicka asked what would happen when the lump sum ended, what would happen to the overdoing. Ladies and gentlemen, this question is so surprising that today is the problem, isn't it? What can you do when you haven't been paid for overwork? Well, here is a solution that certainly will not solve all the problems, but it will make one problem disappear. Today, many hospitals, which are overexercising, also have the so-called. failure and this cannot be compensated. [[You can balance it.]] Thanks to the lump sum, this will be possible. Moreover, if they are overexercising, then the lump sum in the next settlement period will be increased. [[What's the point?]] The high-specialist benefits the professor has asked for will be paid separately, on the basis of the previous rules. Mrs Hrynkiewicz asked about quality. I have already said a little bit about the fact that we are in a bad place right now when it comes to measuring quality, because no one has ever faced this issue in health care, but I think you are following the activity of the Ministry of Health. [[Landy mostly.]] We are already after consultation of the public principles of the Health Quality and Patient Safety Act, and I hope that together we will develop a really new quality in this respect, namely that the agency specifically established for this will work out - and it is not necessary to discover America, because this is done in the world - various quality indicators such as the presentation of results, measurement of hospital infections, risk management systems, etc., which will provide that the hospital will be located in the right place, and that will also result in the amount of remuneration that will be received from the public payer. [[What's the point?]] Monika Rosa of Modern Poland once again asked about these hospitals in Silesia, talking about this almost equal number of hospitals that remain or go online, and those that... 69 goes in, 52 doesn't go in - I don't know where those numbers come from. Perhaps they are true, I do not know that, but certainly, if we compare those hospitals that go online with those that don't go in with those individuals called hospitals that don't go in, I assure you that among those that don't go in, firstly, there are some facilities that do the scheduled benefits, and they simply have to run in competitions by nature, and probably a large number of them will get a contract, while as far as the second part is concerned, they are hospitals that are of a nature, I would say, solutions that are not quite acceptable, which I will say in a moment. [[How much longer are you gonna talk about?]] Mr Piotr Pyzik asked about the debt. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that the debt reaches PLN 11 billion. This is the result of many years of underfunding of health care. You also asked about employees' salaries. We're at the end of the government's legislative work on the minimum wage bill. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka drew attention to the phenomenon I have already mentioned, the division of patients into better and worse patients, the equality of patients. Thank you for pointing that out. These are fundamental matters, and I hope that at least some of them will succeed... [[If it had not been for Mrs Krynick, there would have been no foundation.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski once again asked about these specialties, which I have already mentioned, so that I will no longer repeat: geriatrics, psychiatry, rehabilitation. Mrs Stępień once again asked about private hospitals and EU funds that could be lost. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, those private hospitals that have taken EU measures in the previous perspective are past their shelf life. Of course, in competitions they can win, but also whenever there's a competition, there's such a risk that you won't win. Different forms of subcontracting are possible, and therefore it is not said that if someone is not on the web, these measures are already lost. It must also be said that someone who takes EU funds is committed to certain things and takes on some kind of risk, but it seems that this risk is actually very small. It was still here, at the very end, ladies and gentlemen, a case of pathology that happened in Starachowice. [[In the Oder Cross.]] I wanted to refer to it. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, these are media reports and I do not know much other than what was in the media, but I assure you that the whole situation that happened in Starachowice, where a public hospital rents a piece of its property, its property to a private entity that carries out a competitive activity towards it, is specifically about invasive cardiology... One table stands in a public hospital, and the other one is probably in a unit that's also registered as a hospital, because it's a unit that probably meets all the criteria. Well, certainly this situation, which started in Starachowice in 2008, 2009, 2012, because there were different ranges, should not have happened. And everything that's going on out there right now is a derivative of a bad decision from many years ago that you've allowed, and even, I would say, encouraged. Because this kind of situation is not an example of this one town. There are many public hospitals in Poland, on which like hubs paralyze individuals that suck all the juices out of them, or right next to them, across the street. And it's definitely gonna end. [[That's where the PiS rules.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to say yes. This bill is very difficult, but it's not a revolution. It changes a lot, but it doesn't turn the system upside down. However, we assume that unfortunately at the moment the health care system in Poland is far from the expectations of Poles and Poles and certainly needs to be changed. Change is necessary and one of the first steps in this area This is a good change in the field of hospitalization. The introduction of hospital networks will introduce the stability of these units, but above all will contribute to better care for patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u237	Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform, on correction. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u238	Minister, you need to be corrected because you've got a lot of things wrong. It wasn't Eve Kołodziej who was scaring, it was Konstanty Radziwiłł who talked about the law on the hospital network: I hope that the present project will divide the fate of the predecessors and never enter into force. Otherwise, we are threatened with centralism, etatism on a scale unprecedented in any modern country. That's what you said, and you scared the patients, [[Applause]] And you scared them for 20 years, and when it came down to it, to do it, you can't do it. And now you're spittin' on the private ones here. [[Voice from the room: What have you done?]] Keep your mouth shut. You spit on the private ones. I'm the one who's gonna tell the truth about what the truth looks like, Minister. You gave less money to hospitals by 5%, to psychiatry by 1%, to rehab by 3%. Do you know where you've increased your funding by a billion? POS of which 98% is private, among others. Which you used to own and which environment you came from. Only there did you increase your funding. And how can you say that from that podium? How can you bullshit people like that? You're reducing the funding of public hospitals, and please don't use this rhetorical arrangement, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that all Poland supported the arrangement, only one Radziwiłł will fix it. You've been scaring patients for 20 years, and now you can't put a bill into effect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party. Also a minute. You're welcome. No, please sit down and don't disturb the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u241	This way, I'm not gonna... Mr. President, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not allow each of your Members to be corrected, because this will lead to a situation where you have re-expressions. So... [[We misunderstood the Minister. The Minister misunderstood me.]] No, I'm sorry. Mr President, please continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! How can we trust Minister Radziwiłłł, as he misleads the public on just one thing he is talking about today - quality and quality monitoring in health care? Minister, there is a Quality Monitoring Centre in Health Protection, which you oversee, there is the 21st National Conference on Quality in Health Care, there is a company to promote the quality of health care, and on your website there are certificates that have been granted, and there is a beautiful presentation of certificates granted since 1999. And you are telling the public that so far there has been no mention of quality in Poland? I understand... I did not expect, to be honest, that you also contracted this disease, which causes you to see that Poland started on 25 October 2015 and before that there was nothing. The previous PiS government did a lot on quality monitoring, too, because individual ministers did it. And in those eight years, which you so often appeal to with pleasure - notabene is already wearing off, really after 17 months of ruling, this appeal is no longer working, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are very fond of this - accreditations have been introduced in these years. As far as the elderly are concerned - you were not at the meeting of the Polish starosts' union, you were Minister Gryza - there was no fetting of this law by the starosts. And one last thing. As Members, we really have the right to speak from this speaker. You can't limit that right. You may not like it, this voice, but don't take away our right to speak, because we won't allow it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u243	Thank you very much. And the last person to correct... Have a seat, Member. ...is Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I asked you two very specific questions, and when you answered my questions, he said that I used some calculations. So either listen to the questions and answer them, or say that unfortunately the answer will be different. When we met a year and a half ago in the health market debate, before the elections themselves, the Minister was polite in a very specific way, mocking my statements, unambiguously saying that only an increase in health funding is able to improve anything and must be the first, and only then can we introduce systemic changes. What's the situation today? And the Minister, instead of answering the questions specifically, is using some kind of ridicule again. I figured out, yeah, patient environments. Don't feel so sure that all the patient environments are in contact with you and are satisfied. No, a lot. [[♪ The bell ♪]] environments report to us, even shocked by what this system can introduce for health protection. Thank you very much. [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u245	Thank you very much. I'm not giving any more votes on the corrigendum. Here you are, Mr President, as rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I thank you for all the speeches and for the whole discussion that took place both here in the Chamber and in the committee. In the light of this discussion, I would like to thank the Minister for his perseverance, his perseverance in translation and his response. I think, Minister, maybe you'll have to explain five more times, maybe ten more times, so that some information will penetrate over time. For I assume that this is not a bad will, but that some information cannot somehow reach. I also assume that this is not due to the failure to read the bill, because I cannot imagine that the Members who speak, in fact, do not read the law, although sometimes you can get such an impression. Therefore, let us draw our own conclusions as to whether this is a matter of completely wrong and from a different standpoint of looking at health issues. Thank you very much for the discussion, and we will probably talk about this on a number of occasions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u247	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government bill amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision is the most important of the existing laws reforming health protection in Poland. It is a pity that many years had passed before the project of a network of hospitals - about this idea had already been mentioned by the Minister of Finance - entered into force. Discussions on the draft law in the course of the work of the Health Committee and in the plenary hall show that the opposition is a total critic of the law, but the arguments of the Ministry of Health have helped to deal effectively with the allegations and have shown that these allegations are proverbial fears on Lachy. An eloquent example of this was the discussion yesterday in the Health Committee on Cardiology. It is known that the chairman of the committee, notabene representative of the opposition, former Minister of Health Bartosz Arłukowicz, called a meeting under the eloquent title of "Information from the Minister of Health on the negative effects for patients with cardiac diseases" in advance suggesting these negative effects. I believe that, after a committee meeting, if it wants to be true, it should modify this title on information on positive effects. I personally, the longer I listened to the arguments for and on-call arguments against the opposition, the more I convinced myself to this law. It's a law ordering, rationalising, stabilizing the system and necessary for introduction. And my question: What would be the consequences of maintaining the health care system in its current form, and what would be the consequences of the unfettered, yet frozen, competitions for health care?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u249	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs (prints 1332 and 1390). I ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, it has been my honour to present to the High House a report on the government draft law amending the law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs, printing No 1332. The bill entered the Sejm on 28 February 2017. On 6 March 2017, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Health Commission for first reading. March 21st this year. a first reading of the draft was held at the Health Committee at which the project was considered. The committee's report is in print No 1390. The contested bill concerns the amendment of the Act of 1 July 2005 on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. It should be stressed that the project is very technical. The main reason for the proposed changes is the need to implement the provisions of the EU rules into Polish law, thus establishing a uniform framework guaranteeing high quality and safety standards for cells, tissues and organs intended for transplantation and human use. The primary objective of the draft law is to adopt provisions to ensure that, irrespective of their intended use, cells, tissues and organs comply with certain quality requirements and equivalent safety standards. The draft law introduces standards for the introduction into the territory of the Republic of Poland from countries outside the European Economic Area of human tissues and cells intended for transplantation and human use, and introduces rules for the collection and testing of tissues and cells that take place outside the European Union, and measures to ensure monitoring of tissues and cells on the way to and from the donor. The draft law contains, among others, the following: provisions introducing a unique identifier used for tissues and cells distributed in the European Union in the form of a single European code which contains information on the main characteristics and characteristics of tissues. The adoption of the proposed measures in the draft law is subject to the implementation of Commission Directive (EU) 2015/565 and Commission Directive (EU) 2015/566, which provide that the provisions adopted on the basis of them should apply from 29 April 2017. The draft law indicates this day as the date of entry into force of the legislation. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the work of the Health Commission on the draft law at its meeting on 21 March this year. The four substantive amendments and the legislative and editorial amendments tabled by the legislator were adopted unanimously. The whole project was accepted without a vote of objection. The Health Committee therefore requests that this proposal be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u251	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs and draft implementing acts for printing 1332. The aim of the bill is to implement European Union law. According to the opinion put forward by the Government, the project is compatible with European Union law. The project shall contain a comprehensive, comprehensive justification and draft implementing acts. The Health Committee, at which the project was examined, also received two opinions from the Sejm Analysis Office. The main objective of the current project is to implement the provisions of the two 2015 European Union Directives, i.e. Directive 565/2015 and Directive 566/2015. The draft also amends the existing law to clarify the current provisions. According to the assumptions, the draft amends the Act of 1 July 2005. Its aim is to align Polish legislation with the provisions of the Directives mentioned above amending the 2006 Directive 86 of the European Communities with regard to technical requirements for the coding of human tissues and cells and to the provisions of Commission Directive 566/2015 implementing Directive 2004/23 of the European Communities as regards procedures for the verification of equivalent quality and safety standards for imported tissues and cells. The Directive was to be transposed into national law by 29 October 2016 and should apply from 29 April 2017. The contested law is to enter into force on 29 April 2017. An important part of this law concerns the new definitions of the basic terms in accordance with their wording in the directives implemented. The second group of changes in definition is based on a critical approach to the translation of concepts, medical terms used in European Union legal acts in order to bring them to a clear interpretation and to eliminate the ambiguity of interpretation of the concepts used so far. The Act also adds new concepts which are justified in the practical application of the provisions of the Act. The explanatory memorandum explains in detail the changes made, refers to the changes applied to the verification procedures and standards of quality and safety of the tissues and cells transported, and introduces a uniform European code for tissues and cells distributed in the Union and the obligation to ensure traceability of tissues and cells using a uniform European code from human collection to human use or removal. The Act also sets a 30-year period as a minimum to preserve data by tissue establishments. On 21 March, the Health Commission examined the draft law presented by the Government, tabled substantive, legislative and linguistic amendments and unanimously accepted the draft. The Law and Justice Club does not comment on the proposal, will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u253	Thank you. Mr Marian Zembala will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! During my previous statement, I responded positively to the government's draft law on amending the law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs, and I would not like to repeat in this group everything that was the basis for this amendment - it could be used to specify: correct, necessary, legitimate. Let me not discuss this further so that I do not repeat the same aspects several times and what it was about, especially since as a transplantologist I will repeat again: this is the next stage for transplantology in Poland, where we are slightly below the European average when it comes to the number of transplanted organs, I am saying this with a certain... to intensify our efforts. On each side, I thank the Ministry of Health and the community of transplantologists here, but also more widely, who distribute this noble not only from a medical point of view, but also from an ethical point of view. The fact that more than 1,500 people live through transplants last year and the transplant environment - usually at night as well as tonight, hence even a little late, I apologize - is the best testimony of ideas and principles. But I take the opportunity to draw attention to a further plan. So in the matter we are talking about, both the transplant environment and the club that I represent, the Civic Platform will vote yes - this is legitimate, deliberate, justified. On the other hand, I would like to signal to you an issue that is becoming a problem in the European environment. It doesn't concern this matter today, but I would very much like us to pay attention to it. Well, in Poland it develops in a way far beyond objective control of the issue of stem cell therapy, it should be used in quotes: stem cells. In my opinion, an expert environment requires a deep, broad discussion, more new regulation, because there is a growing source of misunderstandings. The consequences are sometimes dangerous for patients, I say this as a transplantologist doctor, but also for research, including therapy. We meet with situations I have experienced as Minister of Health, but the state also, when we suddenly issue bills after 14, 16, 18 thousand. for cell therapy closer to unidentified, closer unknown, closer unknown, closer unstandardized. Such a situation must not take place and any subsequent action is necessary to standardise these actions. I use it to draw attention to this matter in my time. I am pleased that such authorities as Prof. Dulak and others, representing not only the Polish, but also the European science, that our activities also coincide with the published results, with the position of the International Society for Stem Cell Research, which it publishes, also last week in the New England Journal of Medicine. attempts at stem cell therapy are not only unfairly commercially used, but there is also no reason to use this generally, especially for the consideration paid by the patients themselves. There is no regulation, there is no regulation. So I ask my words: doctor, transplantologist and Member, servant speech... I want this problem to be dealt with together and solved together. On the matter that is the substance, I will repeat once again: the opinion will be positive, including the club that I represent, the Civic Platform. On the other hand, I would like to express the concern of all of us - I am glad that the Minister has also stayed - it was that we should, together, overcome the divisions with great care, touch the problem that has come before us. Fortunately, our actions since 1985 - I say it with satisfaction - over divisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] fit into European expectations when it comes to caring for the sick. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u255	Thank you very much. The Kukiz Club15 will be represented by Mr Jerzy Kozłowski and he will now give his speech on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs, seym prints 1332 and 1390. We fully agree with the report presented by the representative of the Health Committee. This project raises no objections to us. We fully support him and we will vote in favour of him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u257	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the draft law amending the law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs with draft implementing acts. We are all aware that the Polish transplant system needs to be changed. The number of downloads made from both living and dead donors is lower in us than in many European Union countries, where this form of treatment has become very common over the years. Recently, which is very exciting, we have started real work on this area of the health system. A recently reviewed project to sort out some formal aspects of transplantology was only a small step towards disseminating transplant procedures in our country to the extent required. Today we have the opportunity to discuss a project which, in my opinion, contains a number of good solutions that will really improve the transport of bodies between countries associated with the European Union. Given the fact that the project is implementing the provisions of the EU Directive, we are also confident that similar solutions will be put in place in all Member States, ensuring coordinated action in this area in 28 countries. In Poland, more than 1,500 people are waiting for an organ that will significantly improve their standard of living. Doctors are well aware of the fact that genetics knows no borders, and thanks to unification of standards, the possibility of a real search for donors among citizens of all the associated countries, i.e. more than 500 million people, really increases the chance to treat many in need. I have the impression that unanimity is natural on such important issues, because despite many differences, each of us is aware of the seriousness and importance of the issues we are discussing today. Any simplification of procedures and the extension of international cooperation on health protection helps to save lives for many people. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club will, of course, vote in favour of further work on the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u259	Thank you. I do not see Mr Radosław Lubczyk. Therefore, please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Like all clubs, we support the project submitted. At this point I will not refer to his merit, my previous speakers did so, but they will continue the subject or thread started by Professor Zembala, for whom I thank you very much, first of all, for pointing out achievements and gratitude for these achievements to Polish transplantologists who not only save lives, but also bring glory because they are making new discoveries and new treatments, expanding medical opportunities and are certainly for many not only outstanding doctors, but also outstanding specialists, scientists. They are innovative in their actions and this is such a practical example of innovation. The second point is gratitude to all those who pass on their organs, to families who sometimes make a very difficult decision. Without their empathy, without their understanding that this is the most valuable drug that can be passed on, there would be no development of Polish transplantology. I would like to appeal to everyone. The Minister is lucky to present interesting, good projects on behalf of the Ministry of Health, not as hopeless as the one we discussed in the previous point, so it is worth expressing our appreciation for the preparation of this initiative which we will support. It is good that every year the number of transplants, the number of donors, the number of families who receive the gift of life from other families, is simply greater. That's our job together. Let's do everything we can to promote being a donor and to tame the environments to which this fashion has not yet reached maybe or maybe this way of helping others, taming them with being a donor, being responsible and participating in the process of treating other people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u261	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the governmental bill amending the law on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. The need for this proposal is due to the alignment of the provisions of the existing law with the provisions of the Directive of the Commission of the European Union. The draft law introduces standards concerning the introduction into the territory of the Republic of Poland of third countries, i.e. non-EU countries and non-European Free Trade Agreement, human tissues and cells intended for transplantation and human use. The draft law also introduces provisions on the collection and testing of tissues and cells that take place outside the European Union and measures to ensure monitoring of tissues and cells from donor to recipient. This is a long-awaited solution and it is not debatable that it increases the security of both sides of the procedure. The draft law re-defined elements related to the transmission of cells, tissues and organs, including relevant adverse events, which are a negative side effect that may occur when performing activities related to cells, tissues and organs, e.g. disability and incapacity to work. Legal security and clearly defined rules protect patients and, in case of unfortunate complications, help victims to obtain help, not just medical help. For this reason alone, the proposed solutions are worthy of support. Another good solution is the obligation of tissue and cell establishments to store for at least 30 years the documentation on the materials delivered for transplantation in such a way as to identify donors and recipients. During the project process at the committee meeting, the governmental party stressed that the Act ensures the maintenance of quality requirements and the safety of donors and recipients. In view of these arguments and the need to implement EU law into the Polish law, the law received the support of all present members of the committee. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u263	Thank you, Member. Four persons entered the question on the list of Members. You're an MP, too? Five people, then. Is there anyone else? No? I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. We start with Ewa Tomaszewska, but I do not see her. Therefore, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Art. 16c Act currently provides for the functioning of centres eligible for organ, bone marrow or haematopoietic cells. The amendment to the article is not included in the draft opinion, but in my opinion it should be done. Specialists in the field of haematology and oncology and hematology of children have sufficient competence to carry out the tasks laid down by the Act for qualification teams in the field of haematopoietic cell transplantation. I would therefore ask you to answer the question of why you maintain the obligation to participate in and chair clinical transplant specialists. Why can no alternative be used in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u265	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u266	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law itself, the project itself actually does not raise any doubts, emotions and, as you can see, in good cases, with good projects, compatibility in work over political divisions is very high. Keep up the good work. My question is more wishful thinking. Minister, are work in progress at the Ministry of Health today, or do you have in your plan work on a widely understood transplantology, i.e. everything related to social education and development of centres, but also widely understood organisational issues, in order to improve the situation with regard to transplantology in Poland? As we know, today people waiting for organs in Poland are, on average, over a thousand. Many of them, unfortunately, will have no chance of [[♪ The bell ♪]] second life, therefore, our common task is to coordinate this process so that as many people as possible give a second life a chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At first, I wanted to join those thanks which had already been preached from this speaker, thanks addressed to the whole community of transplantologists, but also people who decide to give their organs in the case of, for example. family transplants, as well as those families who show understanding, realizing that tragedy can also save lives and health. At the same time, I would like to say that in the Polish Sejm there were initiatives, there was a parliamentary team dealing with transplants, I was a member of this team. Previously, there were initiatives that I personally took so that Members would carry appropriate statements of will. I'd love to take this initiative with you someday, maybe it's worth it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna go back. So there's something to thank you for. At the same time, I also wanted to ask Professor Zembala about stem cell therapy. This actually slowly becomes not only an opportunity and hope, but also a problem. How will this possibly be resolved? I don't think we've touched that in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u269	Thank you. And the last question, Mr Piotr Polak, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u270	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Life is priceless, and if it's given to someone for the second time, it's all the more valued and respected. And indeed, all who have contributed or contributed to the fact that those who have already had no hope have had such a chance, the second life have been given, belong, on hands, I think, to Prof. Zembali, thanks. There was also a case in my family that a heart transplant in your performance saved my life. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. This is for the Professor. I would like to ask, Minister, because unfortunately we hear that there are situations in the world where human organs are traded, whether this law perfectly, let's say, secures Polish transplantology, so that such situations do not occur in Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because these are absolutely things. Unacceptable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u271	Thank you very much. With this question, we've exhausted the list of questions. And I ask you, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Health, Katarzyna Głowala, for an answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u272	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards Mr Stefan Romecki's question, this is not the subject, it does not concern the matter of this law. This law, as it was emphasized, only implements the directives, while the Ministry of Health began to work on the whole transplant system. The draft was recently presented to the National transplant board, and today the management decided to set up a team consisting of transplant specialists and Poltransplant employees and a national tissue and cell bank to write on the basis of those assumptions that were adopted by the National transplant board, a new system of transplantology regulating the changes that Mrs Lydia Gądek asked about here, namely issues concerning the organisation of the system, education, promotion of transplantology, so as to improve, increase collection and transplantation of organs, tissues and organs. I can also say that today the Ministry of Health has accepted a revision of the multiannual programme for transplantation, which operates under the Public Finance Act. The resolution of the Council of Ministers, because it is in the form of a resolution of the Council of Ministers, will go into interministerial arrangements, and then the Council of Ministers will decide on this change. We have analysed the functioning of this programme and the spending on this programme. We want these funds to be spent effectively, we want to improve this programme, and we have therefore decided to revise this multiannual programme. Regarding Mr Latos' question and Mr Zembala's question about cell therapy, already in this law, which we are proceeding today, as amended by Article 1. 1 is to extend the treatment from donation to admission, and later it will be regulated in the Pharmaceutical Law. In part, it's like we're coming up against each other, but I think with a big change in the whole system, it's going to be an analysis, and then we're going to decide. As far as organ trafficking is concerned, some of these issues are already regulated. It will probably also be regulated in a major revision in order to prevent this phenomenon. Here we are talking about accepting or building certain registers, as well as improving the functioning of registers in order to prevent this phenomenon. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u273	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Bernadette Krynick, will also speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As rapporteur, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the substantive and efficient discussion in committee and in the plenary room. As you can see, we can discuss without conflict, beyond divisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u275	I'm glad that's the way it is. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers (prints Nos 1305 and 1359). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers entered the Sejm on 15 February 2017. After the first reading held in plenary, this project was aimed at further work in the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. I would like to remind you that the project deals with two areas: road traffic, where the legal framework for e-services related to this area is being created, and the whole area of social benefits by introducing the necessary changes to the implementation of the project from paper to digital Poland in 10 laws. March 8th this year The committee considered this draft law, in particular the concerns raised by the General Data Protection Officer, unfortunately without the latter being involved. There was no representative of GIODO at this meeting. Several legislative amendments were adopted during the detailed discussion of the draft law. High Seym! The Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology recommends the High House's draft law, which was delivered to ladies and gentlemen in Parliament's printing No 1359. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u277	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Club Law and Justice, Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice, I am acting with regard to the acts being examined in relation to the tasks of public administrations in respect of certain public registers. According to the electoral announcements of Law and Justice, we are ordering cyberspace in state and government administration. The changes to the bill are intended to enable Kowalski to handle as many public administration cases as possible through electronic systems over the Internet. The Act will allow every citizen to apply for benefits through these systems, except for many visits to issuing offices and without a variety of cumbersome certificates. What will change traffic regulations? Any owner of a vehicle will be able to check on the Internet the number of points assigned to him for the violations committed. Free access to vehicle data collected in the central vehicle register will also be made available to environmental inspection authorities. What does that mean? That this change will allow for the control of vehicles which can be transported, among others. hazardous waste to the environment. The scope of e-services will include the driver's personal data, so-called. points earned by him or her, possibly final decisions of the court in favour or disadvantage of the driver, who will be able to familiarise himself with the legal qualification of the offence and all other details of the specific road event. In turn, changes to the rules on the implementation of family benefits will bring together all lists and registers containing data on persons entitled to benefit from State financial assistance. These changes will also eliminate all irregularities and unauthorised persons who wish to benefit from benefits without having the right to benefits. The authorities, like the banks, will be able to verify the reliability and legitimacy of the aid granted to all Poles by the State. The changes made will make life easier for Poles, as well as for officials. The only question is: Why were our predecessors who had the word "citizen" in their name so much unfavorable for good solutions for all Poles? We're fixing this. In figurative terms, we introduce in the 21st century all the bad practices we have had so far. Digitisation is really being introduced into every area of public life, equal to the standards of the European Union. In view of the above, because it is very necessary for all residents of Poland as well as for the administration, Law and Justice positively advises the contested laws, and also adds two amendments related to the dates of entry into force of these laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u279	On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Paweł Arndt. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Since the first reading of the Law on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers, it has been 2 weeks. When we discussed the draft law, all the clubs actually gave it a positive opinion, because it is actually difficult not to give a positive opinion on a law that will enable drivers to check the number of points they have collected, in violation of traffic regulations, or not to support the changes that concern, in general, social policy and make it impossible for our citizens to collect various kinds of certificates and other documents. This will give the authorities the opportunity to handle matters quickly, but above all, as I said, it will make it easier for citizens to apply for their benefits. But at that first reading, we also raised some doubts. I guess these doubts are only being developed now. The first group of these doubts concerns the entry into force of the Act. Already then - and it was March 8 - we said that the entry of at least some provisions, as it is included in the bill, is impossible on April 1st. This applies specifically to these driver regulations. The Minister then convinced us that it was so important for drivers and that drivers expect such solutions, that it is worth trying to maintain this date. Unfortunately, it didn't work. I believe that the Member has tabled an amendment which will bring this part of the bill into force later. [[Yes.]] I think we're gonna lean on these amendments tomorrow. I believe that this amendment or these amendments should also apply to Article. 13 of the draft law, since this project concerns the transmission by the Police of data to the central register of drivers by 31 March 2017. [[Yes.]] That's impossible, too. [[Yeah, April 23rd.]] Therefore, I hope that these dates will be improved and that the law will also be revised in this respect. There was a second group of doubts, these doubts concerning the protection of personal data. We talked about it at first reading, we discussed it during the committee's work. These doubts have been resolved to some extent. I mean, we asked the Sejm Analysis Bureau to do an analysis. This analysis did not fully dispel all our doubts, but I hope that this answer, which came from the Ministry of Digitalization, at least at this stage closes the discussion on this subject. Although that doesn't mean that we don't have certain questions and little doubts here. We think it's worth monitoring this bill and looking at what's going to happen in the future. However, these personal data are sensitive matters, and if there were any leaks in the future, it would be worth going back to that. So far, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I'd like to say that our club will support the bill. [[Great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak made his speech on behalf of the Kukiz club15 in writing. Therefore, please, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u282	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'm glad we had a little more time. I am aware that the Ministry had different expectations about our work on the committee, while these additional two weeks allowed the proper opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office to be prepared. My previous speaker was talking about this analysis, so I'm just gonna say it briefly. This analysis raises doubts similar to those previously raised by GIODO, which we discussed in the committee. They concerned the security of access and the transmission or transmission of personal information and data. This really is a very sensitive subject. In connection with this topic we also received correspondence from the Panoptykon Foundation, which specializes in this area and also draws attention to it. But in the process of discussion in our committee, the Ministry, ministers - as many as two were present, so that we thank you for such a personal commitment - have presented in a credible way a process that will protect these data and security, as well as a mechanism for access control, which... [[♪ The bell ♪]] This isn't my time, is it? [[My time is up.]] I'm the one with the extra five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u283	Maybe not five minutes, but speak calmly, and we will explain how much time is left, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u284	I won't take five minutes. In addition, we talked about ways to control access to these databases. In a letter addressed to us in response to the BAS analysis, the Minister quite clearly explains how this access control mechanism will apply. He's convincing us. Like my previous speaker, we also believe that this bill is needed. It simplifies things. The information once given by the citizen should not be required once again. What the system, databases, registers already have, on the basis of only and exclusively NIP, should be downloaded itself. It's comfortable, it's needed. I don't see definitely any big queue drivers waiting to check their penalty points online either. So that I believe that these two weeks of delay in relation to the original plans of the Ministry will not significantly reduce the quality of this proposal. I think they're gonna raise it. The debate took place, as I mentioned, in a way that did not leave any illusions. The Ministry takes this very seriously. So that the Modern will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u285	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made his statement on behalf of the Polish People's Party club in writing. The statement will therefore be made on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers following the work on this project in committee. I have repeatedly expressed my support for all initiatives aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens. In this case, the government's bill aims primarily at facilitating the citizen's contact with the public administration. Thanks to the proposed solutions, the use of the ICT system will improve service in offices, which is currently associated mainly with the excess documentation and necessary for the presentation of certificates. The changes made will significantly reduce bureaucratic burdens. Among these changes is mainly given to the authorities involved in the implementation of family benefits, social assistance benefits, maintenance fund benefits, educational benefits or the Large Family Charter, the possibility of self-verification in the relevant registers of the accuracy of the data provided by the beneficiaries. It is stressed that, as the designers point out, a new tool made available to the authorities will in no way increase the amount of data already collected about citizens and their family situation. Only the form of provision of this information to the competent authorities is changed as this obligation is transferred from the person requesting the benefit in question to the office. In accepting this argument as correct, therefore, I do not agree with the reservations of the Chief Data Protection Officer. I also maintain my support for the other changes contained in this project, such as: enable remote drivers, by means of e-services, to check the number of points assigned to them for traffic offences. I believe that administrative IT is the direction in which we should go, because it is primarily connected with a citizen-friendly administration. About Free and Solidarni will support further proceding on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u287	Thank you, Member. Three persons have entered the list of Members. Would any of you like to sign up? I don't see any calls. So I'm closing the list. He begins with a question by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u288	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office in one of three cases, we can also find such a statement that the provisions of the project may raise substantive doubts as to issues related to the security of personal data collected in public registers. At the same time, it is noted that it is worth clarifying the provisions of the project by indicating that access to or verification of data may take place only for purposes related to the investigation carried out by the authority concerned, as suggested by GIODO. Of course, these issues are also regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act, but in response to these concerns, the General Data Protection Officer, Minister, maybe it is worthwhile at a later stage, e.g. in the Senate, clarify these provisions of the project to the extent indicated, in order to put these issues in order, as indicated in the BAS analysis. I am, of course, in favour of this bill, because it is something very valuable, and I would like to ask the Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for which the Ministry and the applicant did not agree with this issue, which is primarily of ordering nature. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u290	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the design, drivers will be able to check online information about points received for violation of traffic regulations. The CEPiK system has already cost several hundred million zlotys, and the deadline for implementing it has been changed several times. I would like to ask: At what stage are work on the introduction of the CEPiK system? What is the final date of implementation of the system? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u291	Thank you very much. And Mr Antoni Mężyłko, the Civic Platform Club, will ask the last question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to raise two points, I don't know if I can make it. One is this opinion of BAS, it strengthens us in the belief that this law needs to be dealt with as soon as possible. The second, when it comes to GIODO, I share the position of the Ministry, because this law - like all laws, when the Ministry or at least part of the Ministry is headed by Minister Streżyńska - is well prepared and can be accepted almost blindly. I wouldn't want her to come back from the Senate to the Sejm again, just to be passed as soon as possible. I very much thank the representatives of the PiS that they have tabled these amendments because I believe that those concerning vacathio legis are justified because it is not precisely those provisions that speed up the date of entry into force of the law, because here I would agree that there could be such a short deadline, but the point is that the President has time to process the whole law and there is more complicated [[♪ The bell ♪]] provisions on which there may be doubt. The president might think about it. I don't know if there's any doubt, because I have no doubt. I therefore believe that we should adopt this law in the Sejm and that it will probably no longer have Senate amendments. On the other hand, the second thing I wanted to bring up is the issue that we're discussing today in the journal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u293	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u294	Good. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u295	No, ask that question again. [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u296	I can talk, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u297	Just make your way to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u298	Yes. It's about the state registry system and the NIK report. If I may, I would like to get a written reply because today the Minister is probably not prepared for this, because it is precisely for these NIK reports after the report on the gasport in Świnoujście under the current management that I have considerable reservations and I do not know whether all these data concerning costs and later maintenance costs are true because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u299	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u300	...then the Treasury Minister Gawlik then...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u301	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u302	...verified the NIK report and got to the bottom of it. [[It's over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u303	I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitization of Mr. Marek Zagórski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u304	It was exactly as Minister Gawlik said, not as the report of the NIK presented it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u305	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to thank you for the mode of work and for leaning on this, in general, for the favor of our project from all sides. I would like to thank Mrs Dziuk for the amendments tabled, which, of course, we support. This is because we did not manage to make the second reading at the previous session of the Sejm. We will therefore give both the Senate and the President as well as the police time to comply with the relevant deadlines. Main topic... Maybe I should start with Mr Romecki's question, because it concerned the CEPiK, and I will answer briefly. The entry date of the CEPiK is 4 June 2018. The work is ongoing, this project is one of the first stages of the next submission of individual modules and functionalities within the CEPiK. Soon we will probably report to the High House with another amendment concerning the CEPiK to run the next functionalities. The whole, as I said, 4 June 2018. With regard to the opinion of GIODO and all the questions related to it, first of all, when answering Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka's question, we answered in writing the opinion of BAS at the request of Mr Pudłowski. I can repeat once again that all the threats that the General Data Protection Officer referred to and, in some part, replicated in the BAS analysis, in our view, are unreasonable, do not take into account the basic facts. Firstly, the Code of Administrative Procedure requires the authorities - to remember this - which have access to registers containing information about citizens, to use this information, and in particular to cooperate with other authorities. In this connection, it could be said that such projects as this are part of particular care, because in fact, as we would very much like to interpret it, today it could be said that such an obligation even the authorities have. This law is based on how we have so far dealt with such projects. And I would like to say that we are working at the moment, answering a little bit of Mr Man's question about the systematic order of this issue, namely the issue of mutual use by individual offices, the individual authorities of the data contained in public registers, so as not to come every time every administration service to the High House with a proposal to amend the law. Again, we don't see any danger here. Let us remember who will use this data. They will be used by officials who are obliged to comply with the law in this respect, and all the ICT systems that support this data must comply with the requirements of a number of other laws and regulations that are in force today. So that in this respect, as I said, we do not agree with the opinion of GIODO. If our response is insufficient, we are ready for further discussion, further clarification. And one last question, which is the answer to the question about the NIK report. We will try to provide written information and address this. This report came out today, and I personally, apart from the press release, did not have the opportunity or the time to analyze it thoroughly. All I can say is that we're working on a system of state registers right now. I hope if there are any more NIK reports, they'll be positive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u307	Thank you very much. The Committee rapporteur, Mr Witold Czarnecki, also expressed his wish to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u308	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, I would like to thank all the parliamentary clubs who participated actively and constructively in the discussion on the shape of the bill. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the Minister and the Ministry for such a well-prepared project. In principle, the amendments we proposed were only legislative in nature. Once again, thank you very much and thank all the Members involved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u309	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of Kukiz15 on the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in relation to the tasks of public administrations in relation to certain public registers, print No 1305. The Sejm at its 37th meeting on 8 March 2017 pursuant to Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies for consideration. The Commission for Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies considered this draft law at its meeting on 8 March 2017. The Commission has not tabled any amendments. The proposed law provides for changes that will enable citizens to deal with a number of issues that require public administration without having to leave home through ICT systems. The proposed changes concern inter alia. rules on road traffic (the possibility of checking the number of criminal points via the Internet) and rules on the implementation of various family and assistance benefits (to make available information from the various systems which exempt citizens from adding additional documents to their applications, e.g. University or university education certificates). They also concern the revision of the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers regulations (e.g. The scope of the data to be collected in the central register of drivers shall include full data on the infringement - including the vehicle concerned: type, brand, model, registration number). The project provides for free access to vehicle data collected in the central vehicle register to environmental inspection bodies. In addition, the project includes a number of changes resulting from the 1997 analysis of the Law on Road Traffic in the 2015 version, which are necessary for the smooth start - still under preparation - of the CEPiK 2.0 system. . The proposed amendments are intended to increase access rights to the above mentioned. data from bodies such as the Environmental Protection Inspection and bodies determining the right to family benefits or assistance, which, according to the justification of the draft law, is intended to reduce the bureaucratic burden for citizens. The introduction of the facilitations proposed in the Act is now necessary and long-awaited in many respects. The rules provide a practical opportunity to facilitate citizens, whose result will be a reduction in the time needed to do some of the activities that the State forces them to do - so they carry out one of the many obligations that it has towards the citizen, namely to act in his favour (here saves time and facilitates access to data). For these reasons, the Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the committee's report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the tasks of public administrations in the field of certain public registers, prints no. 1305 and 1359. This proposal provides for the possibility for citizens to handle matters with public administration through ICT systems. Regulation provides for an amendment of the rules governing the operation of the central vehicle register, the central driver register and the legal framework for the launch of the CEPiK 2.0 system. . The project creates a legal framework for the launch of e-services for citizens allowing the Internet to check the number of criminal points received by the driver for traffic violations committed. Provisions in this respect - Article. The first point of the project - is to enter into force on 1 April 2017. Information on the number of points will be made available after the data subject has been certified with a profile trusted with ePUAP - based on data provided by the Police from the records of drivers in violation of traffic regulations. On the other hand, environmental inspection authorities will have free access to vehicle data collected in the central vehicle register. In the case of exports of waste in the form of a vehicle abroad, the responsibility for illegal shipment of waste shall be borne by the seller of the vehicle under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Poland. The above obliges the Chief Environmental Officer to determine the last owner of the vehicle being moved by waste and to carry out administrative action to that person to enable the decision to be taken in accordance with Article. 25 and Article 25 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 26 Law on the International Movement of Waste. To date, the activities of the Environmental Protection Inspection have been hindered by the lack of access to data from the CEPiK system. The essence of the proposed amendments is also the reduction of the number of certificates which must be attached to the application by applicants for family benefits, benefits in the event of unsuccessful execution of alimony, the Large Family Charter and educational benefits. These changes will mean reducing the bureaucratic burden for citizens. In line with the proposed amendments, it will be possible to obtain independent access to the educational information system to bodies granting family benefits, benefits from the maintenance fund, the Large Family Charter and the education provision. The authorities granting family benefits, maintenance fund benefits and education will have access to the Central Insurance List. They will also be able to make direct use of the data collected in the insured account and in the premium payer's account, on the basis of social security rules. The project assumes that the authorities granting the Large Family Card will have access to the PESEL register and to the EXMOoN system. Designed changes are a continuation and development of existing solutions. They provide that the authorities carrying out family benefits, benefits in the event of unsuccessful execution of maintenance and the provision of education shall have independent access to income information from applicants for benefits or recipients and members of their families from the tax authorities or the minister responsible for public finances. The Act is to enter into force on 1 July 2017, with the exception of among others. records of the online verification of the number of points received by the manager and the collection from the educational information system by the Minister of data necessary to determine the right to benefits. High Izbo! The construction of e-states and digital Poland should be one of the priorities of our activity in the Sejm. This is what the 21st century requires of us and a rapidly changing environment in which we operate. And you have to admit that every year this is more and more a digital environment. Reducing bureaucratic burdens for citizens, facilitating their contact with offices via the Internet and improving the exchange of data between offices will facilitate the day-to-day functioning of citizens and improve the functioning of administrations. The comments made by the General Data Protection Officer to the project must not be disregarded. They concerned the security of the transmission and transfer of personal data. How do project authors intend to secure data so that they are not subjected to hacker attacks? It is also strange to write about access to databases for voivodships. Why is it that the voivodships are granted such broad powers? Speaking on behalf of the Polish People's Party, I cannot ignore the problem of unequal access to such projects in our country. We still have many online deserts - areas where even the best-formated e-government will not reach. In parallel to building a digital administration, we should expand fast Internet access in rural areas. In particular, the construction of fibre networks seems urgent. So we should go two-track: improve both the quality of the e-state and its availability, universality. Especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u312	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on security of mass events (prints No. 1376 and 1389). I ask Mr Ireneusz Breś to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This year, exactly on 16 and 30 June, the final UEFA EURO 2017 tournament will be held in Poland for youth teams up to 21 years. These games will be played in Bydgoszcz, Gdynia, Kielce, Kraków, Lublin and Tychy. [[And why not in Toruń? In Bydgoszcz, not Toruń?]] [[That's it!]] These are the selected objects, I respond here to the shouts of Mr Man, by PZPN in cooperation with UEFA. They meet all the standards resulting from the security of mass events and the rank of this event. Perhaps there was no such object in this town as you asked about. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going back to the point. The Polish Football Association has asked the Parliamentary Committee on Sport and Tourism to suspend a provision of the Law on the security of mass events, precisely for the duration of this event, for the duration of the championship. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2. This applies to the fact that there are no printed tickets for this event, either the name of the participant or the PESEL number. We have adopted similar solutions in the organisation of Euro 2012. This will give the organizer, i.e. the Polish Football Association, a more flexible, more possibility to sell tickets to organized groups, schools, young people, children, also packages dedicated to families. We often know that these groups are not related to individuals, but to organisations that buy out dozens of tickets, and then make some adjustments to participants at the last minute, so we considered it appropriate. As far as our work is concerned, it was smooth. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism has initiated a former proposal for a law. This draft law, following the decision of the Marshal of the Sejm and after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, was addressed for first reading and was sent to two committees: back to our Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. At the joint meeting yesterday, 21 March, these two committees carried out their first reading, considered the draft, did not make any amendments. The joint committees in the report in print No. 1389 request the High Sejm to approve the draft law on printing No. 1376 without amendment. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u314	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Falfus will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on security of mass events, print no. 1376. The draft law provides for the addition of an article. 77a to the cited Law of 20 March 2009, which contains a transitional exclusion from the application of the provisions of Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 contained in the current provisions of the Act. This temporary exemption applies to the final matches of the European Junior Championship in the UEFA Football Championship U21 Poland 2017. The exemption will apply until the end of the tournament, i.e. until 30 June 2017 Let the fact that the games will take place for two weeks in six cities: Bydgoszcz, Kraków, Kielce, Gdynia, Lublin and Tychy testify about the scale of the project. Temporary exclusion of the provisions contained in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 currently in force will enable the distribution of stadium tickets, as they will not contain detailed personal data. The temporary exclusion of the current rules will result in a departure from the detailed procedure for obtaining and entering personal data when purchasing them, thereby facilitating the possibility of exchanging tickets between organised groups of children and young people and allowing the transfer of tickets to other persons, for example. in emergency situations, life situations, etc. The introduction of temporary exemptions of the provisions contained in the amendment of the Act will make it easier for organisers, including of course the Polish Football Association, to improve the organisation of the tournament, to increase attendance, especially among children and young people, and to align the legal situation of Polish fans with the situation of fans from abroad. It is worth adding that the other two articles of the amended law specify the time of its entry into force, i.e. 14 days after the announcement, and they talk about restricting the application of the Article. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice clearly supports this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Roman Jacek Kosecki will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the amendment of the law on security of mass events. The aim is to temporarily suspend the rules, as the previous speakers said, Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 currently in force law on the security of mass events in connection, of course, with the organisation of the finals of the European Junior Football Championship UEFA EURO U21 in 2017. Currently, as we know, following the adoption on 11 September 2015 of a law amending the Law on the security of mass events with Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 it appears that the tickets contain names, names, PESEL or type, series, number of document confirming identity. The introduction of this change will make it possible to align the legal situation of Polish citizens with the situation of foreign fans. It is done on the same basis as it was, as we know from experience - I have worked for a while in the Polish Football Association - that foreign countries order tickets and they know who the participants are. Of course, we don't host those participants until later, but we don't decide who's coming. They're inside... That's a lot of tourists. It will also go down, which, of course, does not slow down - here the Minister will surely confirm - from full readiness and from full control and vigilance, even though there will be many young people, many children, because it is this change - that these championships will take place smoothly, safely. I hope that the Euro U21 Junior Championships in Poland will be full of kids, full of young people, but it will be safe. Soccer players will play in a great atmosphere. In short, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club obviously supports the bill without any amendments. We're in. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Maciej Masławski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It surprises me how my colleagues, whom I respect very much, everyone from every club, your speeches... Because this is a Commission proposal for a law which is fully agreed upon, we are all in favour of the fact that it is a good bill, it contains three articles, it is precisely about amending the law on the security of mass events, and the working day of this Sejm costs 1300 thousand. zł, it would just be enough to go out and say that this and this club, i.e. Like me, the Kukiz Club15 does not make any comments and we will, of course, support this bill. It'd be a lot faster anyway. Thank you. Goodbye. [[Applause]] [[But forty seconds, you did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u320	I don't see anyone in the name of Modern. Then we move to the Polish People's Party. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present a position regarding the Commission's draft law on amending the Law on security of mass events, print no. 1376. The amendment of the Act on the Safety of Sports Events is a valid act. The bill refers to the suspension of the provisions of the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 currently in force law on the security of mass events in connection with the organisation of the final tournament of the European Football Championship U21, which will take place in June 2017. Time flies irresistibly, you have to decide quickly. The amendments made are temporary exemptions from the application of the rules, as I mentioned, Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 party safety laws. Such amendments have already taken place at Euro 2012, a year earlier such laws have been adopted to be prepared for the organisation of the European Championships. I see that good practice goes in the right direction, that the proposed changes are also being examined in the organisation of the U21 European Championships. The proposed solutions allow the legal alignment of Polish citizens with foreign supporters, but the most important objective of these changes is that they will facilitate participation as a supporter of more children and young people by reducing formal requirements, i.e. if there is a need to exchange tickets between stakeholders, by increasing attendance at matches, by increasing the participation of parents and children, and by increasing the participation of organised groups, among others. school groups organized by teachers, coaches. More children and young people will be able to participate in live watching matches at a very high level. Finally, the European Football Championship U21 is held in Poland. Here you should be very grateful to the Polish Football Association. Besides, I would like to remind you that for years in our country there have been other sports competitions of the highest international rank, and I hope that Poland will continue to organize such sporting events of the highest rank. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party wishes the organisers, and in particular the Polish Football Association and those cities which are organizers of the U21 European Championships, successful and safe championships. The Club of the Polish People's Party does not comment and is in favour of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir. No one signed up for questions at this point. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister, because if we have no questions, then we don't... I just wanted to say that we're not prolonging this point, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u323	No questions asked, so indeed, your marshal, maybe not necessary is this voice, but at least very briefly, because... [[It's too bad to say.]] ...I was referred to, at least in the apostrophe of speeches. The formal position of the government in this case is not there, because this law is being processed quite quickly, but there is also time not much and urges us. The postulate is known to us, he was discussed among others. at the meeting of the Security Council of Sports Events, which I chair, was formulated by PHPN, analyzed by the Police, by the Ministry. This solution was applied during Euro 2012, and this was the larger in scope, the size of the event organized by two countries. This did not have any negative effects that would have been registered. In order to facilitate young people's access to this tournament, to the matches during the European Youth Championships, we felt that this solution could be accepted. Of course, the security services will have to, because there are terrorist and other threats, increase their activity and ensure security, that belongs to us, belongs to the MMA, belongs to the government and the services. You have to remember that this is not a idyllic situation, that there are no threats, so we can say that nothing needs to be done anymore, right? We are aware of the context in which we are introducing this solution, but we believe that it does not have negative effects. The interest so far, as we know, in the games, maybe outside the finals, isn't much, so that's also an aspect. If these tickets are not sold, then maybe young people can participate in these games, young people willing, schoolchildren. It is worth sports, football, promoting among the youngest and youngest. In short, we do not oppose this solution. Let us do everything together within the framework of good cooperation, including between the PHPN, the Ministry, sports unions and the environments that will organize young people to participate in these games, so that it is safe to be dignified and to say that these youth championships have had the main effect of promoting such a big case as football among young people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u324	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? [[I have submitted to your marshal's appeal not to speak.]] I'm so happy for you. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on repatriation and some other laws (Print No. 1378). I ask the Minister, a member of the Council of Ministers, Henryk Kowalczyk, to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the government, I have the honour to present a bill amending the Repetition Act and some other laws. The amendment of the Repetition Act was primarily dictated by the very bad state of conduct of this repatriation. Since the 1990s, on the basis of the previous provisions of the Act, repatriation has been conducted only by local governments and in a rather imperfect way, because only local authorities had the opportunity to receive financial assistance if they invited repatriate families without names, while if the local government wanted to invite specific repatriate families using names, then of course it had to cover all costs itself. The repatriates actually had little financial assistance, just for the development and the train ticket, which nowadays is a bit of anachronism. Hence the very increased criticism of the Supreme Audit Chamber as regards the assessment of the effects of repatriation so far. Besides, many countries, many European countries, I think that here the Germans should be mentioned as an example, the repatriation was very effective already in the 1990s, and the beginning of the 2000s was actually the end of the repatriation process. As for the Poles who were deported, they were looking forward to repatriation, this process was very poor. About 6,000 were repatriated. people for more than 20 years. This process needs to be significantly accelerated, as there are people who have been waiting more than a dozen years to be repatriated. It is necessary that this process is actually accelerated. Accelerating this process we want to achieve by placing responsibility for the process of repatriation on the government, not counting only on the good will of the local government, and even if this good will was, only minor financial assistance was allocated to local governments. In line with our commitments to the elections, which are included in the electoral programme, but also confirmed by Prime Minister Beata Szydło's exposé, there is an amendment to the Repetition Act. The fact is that the work on this amendment has continued quite a long time, but we wanted to introduce a revision of the Repetition Act very carefully consulted. She was consulted with people who had already arrived in Poland, with repatriates, among others. very precisely with members of the Polish Repatriates Association, when during their national reunion were filled with surveys, expectations, we also wanted to capture all the inconveniences of the legal solutions to date. This law was also consulted in the environment of people waiting for repatriation, i.e. in Kazakhstan, because there is the largest group of Poles waiting for repatriation. In addition, the government has decided to introduce a group of repatriates, let's call them a pilot group to show what problems are ahead of us. Such a group was brought in on 20 December 2016 and these people as if they were going in such a little experimental mode, a system, but according to the new law. As far as the provisions of the new law are concerned, what is different from the original law is, firstly, a change in the definition of the repatriate. This means that the repatriant will be a person of Polish origin, deported - that is, as so far - by the authorities of the Soviet Union, who lived before the entry into force of this law in the Asian parts of the former republics of the Soviet Union. It is a novelty here to extend the definition of a repatriate to a spouse who is not necessarily a person of Polish origin. The experience so far showed that even if the entire repatriate family came to Poland, the people of Polish origin were subject to this definition, they had the appropriate help, while the person who was not Polish was a spouse, was deprived of any help, i.e. health care, later retirement benefits or other assistance. Thus, very often it happened that decisions on repatriation were either made by breaking up families, which is absolutely unacceptable, or that people resigned because they could not return entirely as a family. So this is one of the most important changes that significantly extends the definition of a repatriate. Of course, we are talking about deportees here, and in fact, this law defines the descendants of these deportees more. As these people are already directly deported, this is more than 80 years old, so for well-known reasons it is more relevant It will be descendants, not people directly deported. Another novelty in this bill is the appointment of a government representative for repatriation. It is about giving rank and someone having a name almost responsibility for the process of implementing this repatriation. A representative of the Government is to be appointed as Secretary or Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Besides, until now the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has been repatriating. Also a new subject, a new body... We provide for the appointment of a Repatial Council, which will be such a consultative and advisory body of the proxy, but at the same time will allow for systematisation, such organisation of many people who are actually engaged in repatriating completely socially so far. They are devoted to repatriation, so I think that in this Council for Repatriation they will have excellent opportunities to exploit their experience and commitment, which has so far been a little uncoordinated. Another novelty in the provisions of this law will be the appointment of adaptation centres, so at this point, if we are talking about the fact that we want to bring these repatriates, we want to help them, we want to do it in an organized manner. If a group of repatriates were to come to the country, then they would have been in an adaptation facility for 3 and 6 months. These 3 months are necessary for, first of all, the completion of all documentation formalities, including. It's about offices, civil status records, citizenship confirmations. As in the case of the previous law, the fact of crossing the border gives citizenship to Polish repatriates, but formally, it is necessary to confirm this citizenship, it is about own documents, identity card, PESEL etc. All these are essential things for repatriates who want to start working, live normally in Poland. Of course, the most important thing is the very intensive learning of Polish language, because unfortunately most people of Polish origin during all these years... with Polish language already have problems. There are the oldest people who still know the Polish language, those who had previously had some contact with the Polish language, but yet the vast majority is not Polish language, so here this intensive learning of Polish language is necessary to ensure that assimilation in the country is effective and correct. So this is the adaptation facility. Of course, after 3 months repatriates, i.e. Polish citizens with documentation, with basic knowledge of Polish language will be able to acquire apartments, jobs, etc. It is expected that stay in such a facility should not last more than 6 months. These 3 months represent a period for the departure from the adaptation centre, allowing for settlement and employment. Another may not be new, but some improvements in this law - we want to make procedural improvements with regard to consulates, clearly and precisely define the evidence confirming the conditions for repatriation, the evidence defining the civil status file, as well as the circulation of documents, so that consulates can carry this out efficiently. Plenipotentiary and forms of assistance provided for in this Act. As I have emphasized, so far there have been such forms of aid: development and start-up benefits and housing aid for municipalities which invited nameless repatriates families. Now we want this housing aid first of all, because it is the most important, unify and align in all aspects, and allocate it actually directly to the repatriates. We want to determine the housing aid envisaged at 25,000. PLN per repatriate, or family, let's say, four people is 100,000. zł. The repatriates would have the choice and even the possibility of using this housing aid in a variety of ways. If they have an apartment for rent, they will receive a payment in rent just up to the limit of this amount of 25 thousand. zł, except that the payment in rent will not be granted for more than 10 years, i.e. the entire period of financial assistance relating to the apartment should not last longer than 10 years. Repatriates can use this aid to buy their own apartment or this aid will cover part of the cost of purchasing their own apartment. This aid will also benefit municipalities in the same amount. If the municipality provides housing to the repatriates, it will also be able to obtain the same financial assistance, i.e. 25 thousand. zł na repatriate. A similar character, but it's no longer like a new thing, it's development aid, and it's 6,000. zł per repatriate. And another one here, maybe more just... it's not a new thing, but it's updated and more conveniently written down, it's help - reimbursement of travel expenses. Since it's been a train ticket so far, here we estimate that it's... so far there's been a train ticket for transit and possibly a second value of a train ticket for carriage of property. At this point, we propose in this act that it be sort of a flat-rate - double-value railway ticket. If anyone wants to bring a lot of property and take a lot of packages with them, then a double train ticket. However, it is known that at the moment you are travelling by plane rather than by rail, so this double rail ticket will be more or less comparable to the price of the train ticket, so here is the possibility of using this aid flexibly for reimbursement of travel expenses. Another issue is to cover health insurance, i.e. health benefits. From the moment the repatriates cross the border, they will be provided with health benefits. Until there is a repatriate or registered at the employment office, or he does not take up a job, that means he will not pay a health contribution, it will be covered by the state budget, and then it will be obvious - as he will be subject to a health contribution, just as every citizen will be subject to healthcare. Another issue is, of course, a small difference, whereas the difference resulting from more of a definition, because the repatriates who arrive, if they get retirement age, will of course receive pensions. So far there has been a problem with repatriates, actually with people who are not Polish and were married to repatriates. They couldn't get retirement benefits, and that was also the problem that didn't allow for effective repatriation and caused family break-ups. So now, at the moment of repairing this definition of the repatriate and covering her spouses, people who are not Polish, at this moment they will also be covered by pension benefits. Unfortunately, with most countries, including Kazakhstan, where most Poles live, who want to return to the country, we do not have pension agreements, so we can only say that there will be information about the number of years of work that entitles them to retirement, while the funds behind these pensioners from Kazakhstan, so far, do not go. We hope that the improving diplomatic and political relations with Kazakhstan will also allow for the signing of such agreements and the transfer of these funds, but this act on repatriation is obviously not yet resolved, hence the size of pensions will probably not be large, but it will always be a guarantee, at least the minimum that all Polish citizens have. I think that these are, in general, new forms of assistance that will enable the process of repatriation to be carried out more efficiently. Of course, we assume that this process of repatriation, because it is already too late for at least 25 years, to carry out quite efficiently, so we assume that the funds for repatriation will be a little higher than they have been expected so far. Until now, the provision in the state budget for repatriation has been worth PLN 30 million and has been used to a very small extent in general. We assume that in the following years it will amount to PLN 50, 60 million, and if it is missing, it is always possible to increase the reserve according to needs during the year. There was never such a budgetary position that the reserve could not be raised, but we reserve such amounts, such a government of magnitude, which will allow financial development for the group of repatriates about 1500 a year. It is very difficult to really estimate what repatriate needs are, because there are different data, different needs and different estimates. It's said, for example. $30,000. Poles who would like to come and return to the country, but of course these are just statistical estimates. Unfortunately, experience from Kazakhstan, for example, has shown that even those who have applied for a return visa registered at the consulate for several years have not confirmed it at this time or there is no trace of it, perhaps a significant part of it has gone to Russia, other countries. Probably so, so these estimates are very different. I think we should be very careful to estimate that this could be between 3 and 10,000, and these are the numbers that we should be looking at really, but it's really hard at this point to say clearly how many people it's going to be. We assume that this process of repatriation will be very fast forward for three years, so that the consulates and all the services can carry it out calmly, but the law itself will, of course, continue, because it is difficult to say if someone decides in four years' time that they also have no right to return, but this acceleration should take place within three years. However, the bill is not determined that after many years it ends. So I hope that this bill will allow for the real acceleration of the process of repatriation, as the Prime Minister said, that it will not stop until the last Pole who wants to return to Poland has this opportunity. [[Applause]] I hope that this law will allow, and thus Poland as a state will repay its moral commitment to people who were exported to the Asian part of the former Soviet Union in 1936 and in the 1940s. We think that these people have waited long enough to return to Poland, the more so that, despite their long absence, despite changing generations, they still retain their Polish identity, for example. In the passports of the Kazakh Polish nationality, which was not so obvious and did not meet with praise and favor, they continued to cultivate traditions, customs and Polish language in many places, they still maintained the Catholic faith. And this process, and this is our moral commitment to Poles living in the East, who want to return to Poland, should be fulfilled. And this is our commitment, which we now want to complete and complete this process of repatriation. We owe it to all Poles waiting all these years to return to their beloved homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u326	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And Mrs Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice in relation to the government's bill on repatriation and some other laws, print No. 1378. The project is the response of the Polish government to the expectations of thousands of Polish citizens in the East, who were forced to be deported or displaced without the possibility of returning to their homeland as a result of the war and the communist regime. It aims to speed up the return of repatriates to the country and to introduce new forms of assistance, including financial assistance. The scope of these changes is the result of consultations with the repatriate community in Poland and abroad, as well as local authorities and organisations dealing with this issue. According to data, since 2007, the number of repatriates has been steadily decreasing, and the waiting period for resettlement in Poland can last up to 10 years. Between 2007 and 2012, the number of repatriates decreased by half. This was the case with complex procedures and rules that extended the procedure and, above all, the lack of the necessary conditions for settlement, such as housing or livelihood. According to the data of the Supreme Audit Chamber, repatriating at the current rate, taking into account the number of waiting people and the average number of displaced persons in a given year, would last more than 16 years. This is an image of the great negligence of the last 10 years. The report by NIK clearly indicated that in previous years actions in the form of resettlement actions of people declaring Polish origin did not lead to the creation of an effective system of legal, organisational and financial solutions in this area. Against all these problems comes the government's draft amendment to the law, which, in addition to improving legal mechanisms, offers specific financial tools to secure and facilitate the return of our fellow countrymen to their homeland, including their families and spouses who will receive the status of repatriate. The establishment of a government representative will serve to centralise and improve procedures. The rank of the Minister of Plenipotentiary will speed up the decision-making process and remove the dispersed responsibility in this area, which has slowed down proceedings. The Act also sets a very short, only 30-day deadline for the appointment of an advisory and advisory body, the Repatriation Council, which will support the government's representative. Thanks to the new solutions, the Polish state will assume responsibility for completing the process of repatriation, which so far has burdened local governments to a large extent, closing many people with the possibility of returning to the country due to quite strict requirements or lack of adequate housing facilities in the municipalities. The Act introduces the possibility of creating adaptation centres for repatriates, which seems to be extremely important in the face of huge housing problems related to coming to Poland. Thanks to the new person repatriated will have time to adapt and start a new life in Poland, in which the state will provide her with the opportunity to stay in a language school for nearly half a year, vocational training, integration classes or at last close access to health and education institutions. To those who show particular adaptation difficulties, the municipality will be able to allocate a supporter for a period of up to 2 years to help deal with current problems and ultimately to self-emancipate. The provisions on financial assistance remain key in the draft law. In addition to living in the resort, the repatriant will be able to receive 200 PLN per month, and will receive funding for the purchase or rental of the premises, up to a total of 25 thousand. PLN, and 6 thousand. PLN to cover the cost of renovation and adaptation of the dwelling. The lack of such support so far has often prevented the accommodation from being adapted to use, guaranteeing only the reimbursement of the costs itself. A lot of people couldn't afford that kind of spending. The project also guarantees tax exemptions from donations and inheritances for repatriated persons, who will be able to receive apartments given to them in succession or in a donation act by way of relief. It's a huge support to take possession of your own apartment. According to data from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, about 10 thousand people are interested in repatriation to Poland. Therefore, the proposed short vacathio legis will allow the law to enter into force quickly from 1 May 2017, i.e. less than 1.5 months after the government passed the bill to the Sejm. Given the enormous social expectation of the amendment of the law [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the particular importance of the revised matter The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice welcomes the draft and recommends that it be referred to further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u328	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the bill on repatriation, print no. 1378. What is the main purpose of this bill? Accelerate repatriation. She was too slow. This is all the more surprising since, in May, 26 May 2015, the Civic Platform submitted a project that met all the needs that allowed for a lot of More repatriate, much more worthy of terms than the draft of the present law. But I'll get to that in a minute. So, ladies and gentlemen, what do we read in the statement of reasons, what are the basic problems? The burden of returning to the country - it was true, it was too long - the fear of lack of residence, the fear of lack of a job, the fear of poor knowledge of the language and, finally, the fear of the adaptation process. So let's get to the bottom of this. When I reported when this was the project, when I went to committee, when I repeatedly asked the President of the present to bring it to the table - he did not do it - then I heard the arguments, they also came out of the stand today, that we are obliged to pay off the debt, the debt of martyrdom of those people who live in the Asian part of the former Soviet Union. It's true. But how do we repay it? Case one, nuisance. Ladies and gentlemen, is it true that, indeed, the appointment of a proxy will solve this problem? Madam President, the subcommittee said that yes, because it will be centralisation, because it will be a proxy attached to the Prime Minister, so it will certainly advise. But what are his powers? The main competence of the proxy is to issue a decision on the granting of a seat in the adaptation centre. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform has set up for people who had to be moved rapidly from a place where there is war, hungry people, without any possessions, without anything, to the fishermen. In Fishermen they got a place, they got not 200 zlotys, and 1600 zlotys a month for their allowance, etc. What about moving a repatriate, an old man, to an adaptive facility? But let's think about what it's gonna look like. So, the proxy... Maybe there's one more thing about a proxy. The attorney's decision is an appeal to whom, ladies and gentlemen? Also to the proxy. So there's no appeal. Is it right for a proxy, Minister, to consider appealing himself? It's the first thing. We move to the second point - the place of residence. What is this proposal about the place of residence? It's three whole months, then you can appeal, the repatriate can appeal and get it for the next three months. Okay, then what? And then what, after three months? Social Services? That's what you call making amends? We proposed five roads in our bill, here are three. This law is really for young, healthy people, for students who will finish their studies in Poland for Polish money - and well, they will stay - not for old, harassed people, and that is the majority. I got two beautiful apartments for such people, 100 meters, exquisite, they are to be seen. These were conditions, they were delighted, but not an adaptation center for 3 months, where they will get a pocket 200 PLN. And that's the first thing. They're gonna buy an apartment? Ladies and gentlemen, 4,000. zloty costs a meter of apartment. You're proposing 25,000. So with an average of 50 meters, for a four-person family you have to give these 50 meters, that's 200,000. You give me 25, and where are they gonna get the rest? How? Work. In our bill, we offered a relief to an employer who will suffer the consequences of hiring a repatriate. Who's gonna hire? I send back print No 3774, filed on 26 May 2015, not accepted by the committee. I don't know why. Political decision. [[You should have done this before. You were eight years old.]] It was complex, May 15th, and we waited a year and a half for nothing. And what you're suggesting is $25,000.? Where are they gonna get the rest of the money? It's for the Member. Answer that question. It's gonna be fantastic. [[We were in charge in 2015?]] Finally, thematic courses, qualification courses, p. 24.25. It's got to be customized courses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We suggested that there should be discernment at the level of... I'll finish if the marshal will allow me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u330	Just a moment, but, Member, not too long.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u331	Thank you very much. So they're not specific. It's not here, it should be at consul level to figure out what these people are capable of doing, what profession they're doing, and they should be put in places where they find work. That's not there either. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems. The Civic Platform will support this project, although we advise you to use our project because it is an excellently better project. We will request a referral to the committee and we will make appropriate amendments. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u332	You're welcome. Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Repetition Act and some other laws is a positive direction when it comes to policy against the descendants of Poles, who have suffered really terrible harm from the Soviet Union. The appointment of a government representative in this law may ensure that this process is improved, that it will be brought to our expected state. On the other hand, we are wondering about the creation of another cell, which is this advice, when we are talking about 10,000. The repatriates and the fact that this process will take several years, whether it is necessary for such a cell, such an organ, only consultative, to establish. Since municipalities are to participate most in this process, a separate council which will propose legislative solutions in order to improve this process may have less knowledge than the municipalities that will carry out this process. At the same time, participation in the Council involves remuneration, and this always generates additional costs. These measures could be used more effectively in the process of repatriation. The question is whether or not to agree to the requests that arose during the public consultation in order to extend the possibility of repatriation also to those who stayed in Kazakhstan as a result of the steppe development activities. We're wondering if the ministry has any record of how large a group of people would be. Family assistant and professional activation are the biggest challenge for this process after improving the procedure. The point is that people brought to Poland can become fully assimilated. On the other hand, the question is how this assistant will work. It shouldn't be a clerk who helps out from behind a desk. It is worth wondering whether this task would not be commissioned by NGOs, which would be much more effective in helping to adapt such families. As far as professional activation is concerned, it is good that this repatriating programme is going to be quite economical in the labour market, because it is actually helpful for repatriates, there is a demand for workers. However, many barriers remain, such as recognition of qualifications. And there is also the question of how these adaptation centres will work, whether the municipalities and these centres will be able to cope with the organisational and staff challenge in order to provide a full range of different activities, language and others that will help in the integration process. On the other hand, we are very pleased that this project is a government project, that it contains a full impact assessment of the regulation, that it has also been consulted with people who are willing to participate in this process of repatriation, especially as many proposals and comments have been presented. We must remember that they are people who have Polish origins in some part of them, are raised in another cultural circle, and their knowledge of Polish language is mostly small. Surely the issue of repatriation is an area of activity in a country where negligence has occurred for many years. There is no doubt that this is why the comprehensive repatriation programme should be implemented as soon as possible. It is also a signal to the Polish society that some issues have still not been settled, and yet most people treat it as a story, like something that has already been settled. Let us hope that if we carry out the process of repatriation in a coordinated manner, we will also address a number of other important issues in terms of helping Poles in the East in terms of defending Poles and educational centers in Lithuania or strengthening Poles in Ukraine. The Kukiz Club15 will support the bill. In the further legislative process, may this proposal be further adapted on the basis of the comments made by those who took part in the public consultation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u334	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the pleasure to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the bill to amend the Repetition Act. We generally welcome this initiative, which is very important. The process of repatriating needs to be completed. We're about halfway through this process. It has to be definitely finished, because the subject is extremely important. The Republic has important commitments in this regard, which we all have to fulfil. The Act is intended to create conditions for the return of people of Polish origin. It's a good thing the definition of the repatriate was extended here. Today it already covers a wider circle of people. As we have rightly said here, today we are dealing de facto with the next generations of people of Polish origin. Very rarely will it be those who have touched the exile. The Act introduces a proxy to the rank of Undersecretary of State. I think this centralization... I rarely approve of centralization, but in this case, yes. It is good that there will be one person responsible for this issue. On the other hand, my doubts are the need for counsel. Indeed, this process will probably go hand in hand with varying intensity. Will this advice be properly developed, or will it have, briefly, what to do? I'm having second thoughts. Ladies and gentlemen, after reading this project, I have the impression that unfortunately we offer our repatriates more fish than a fishing rod. After the forms of aid that the Minister referred to, even this main housing aid, it is clear that it will be very difficult for them to install here for this amount of 25 000. I'm not talking about big cities anymore, because it's completely impossible, but even in smaller towns it's going to be very difficult for an average family that has about 100,000. zł. It's gonna be really hard for her to buy an apartment, but at best, she can rent it. Indeed, I would agree with Mrs Fabisiak that such more active instruments of impact on the labour market would be needed, i.e. some relief, a system of relief for employers who would employ such people. Although the situation on the labour market is actually slightly better than it was a few years ago, let us hope that these people will have the chance to get not only simple jobs, to do simple jobs, but also those that will suit their education or preparation, professional experience. Other forms of aid also raise doubts. Both the arrival aid and the development aid are relatively small. I am positive about those benefits that concern health care and pensions. Indeed, talks will have to be held with those countries from which the repatriates will come, so that at least part of the Republic will receive compensation for the expenses that we will bear. In general, we will support this solution, we will be actively involved in the work on this project, because - once again I will emphasise - this is an important project. He must be very well prepared, very well carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u336	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on repatriation and some other laws. The bill deals with certain solutions that will create the right conditions to return, settle in Poland to Polish people of origin. These are persons sent or deported by the Soviet Union authorities, among others. to Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Kazakhstan. I mean all these countries, the republics that have been mentioned, but above all, the Asian parts of the Russian Federation. The draft law proposes a number of regulatory provisions to unlock and accelerate the return of repatriates to Poland. Among other things, the definition of the repatriate and procedures related to the acceleration of the granting of the national visa for repatriation have been amended. Solutions are also envisaged to improve and facilitate the process of repatriation. A representative of the government for repatriation will be appointed and a Council for Repatriation will be set up. The Secretary or Under-Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will act as representative of the Government, which will increase the rank of the institution concerned. The most important tasks will be to coordinate the measures supporting the repatriates and to issue decisions on the granting of financial assistance to them. A representative will cooperate with the authorities of local government units and non-governmental organisations. The draft law provides for the establishment of adoption centres which may be run by social organisations, associations or other legal persons. In these centres, courses and adoption and integration activities will be provided, and stay in the centre will be limited: from 3 to 6 months. Staying in the centre at that time will be a new proof of fulfillment of conditions of settling in Poland. The project proposes a new form of financial assistance. The plenipotentiary will provide the rep after leaving the financial assistance centre, among others. 25,000. PLN for a surcharge to the apartment or rent to the renter of the apartment for a period not exceeding 10 years, aid of 6 000. zł for adaptation or renovation of the apartment. At the same time, a one-off grant from the state budget to 25 000 will be granted to the municipality that will provide the apartment. zł per person from the family. A new form of assistance will also be the possibility of being allocated by the municipality in which the repatriant lives, a supporting person. The new legislation also extends the catalogue of inheritance tax exemptions and donations acquired by the repatriator. The draft law proposes a number of new regulations to unlock the resettlement process, among others. amending the definition of the repatriate and amending the procedure for granting a national visa for repatriation. A maximum waiting time has been set for people who do not have so-called. conditions for settling - in principle no more than 3 years. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of further work in committees. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz will now speak. He's not gonna take it because... [[Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz: He is, he is.]] Oh, there it is. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u339	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! How could I not speak on such an important subject in the debate, especially since I am half descended from the repatriates, those early repatriates from the beginning of 1946. I must say, Minister, that I have made very critical assessments of the policies of the current government, the proposals that the government has put forward on behalf of the Union of European Democrats, on several occasions from this parliamentary stand. I would like to say again: I am convinced that they were, at least on these key issues, legitimate. When, on behalf of the government, the club, parliamentary facilities, the club Law and Justice formulated further laws, de-in fact demolishing the institution of the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland, and when the government proposed changes in the system of education, which many call not reform, but deformity, which I agree with, as well as the last time we criticized - practice very quickly verified our critical opinions - Polish policy within the European Union... I will tell you more, from this stand I also expressed a critical assessment of the actions of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to Polish Eastern Policy, and in particular the lack of this policy despite the assurances by Minister Waszczykowski made during the first speech, so-called. a small exposé, an exposé of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as recently announcing a new quality in Polish Eastern policy, which unfortunately we have not yet seen. I must also say that in the debate on the budget in the previous year, I pointed out that despite the promises made by the Prime Minister in her exposé in November 2015, there was no precise reflection of the promise, one of the main ones she made at the time, i.e. on important changes in the policy on repatriates, the policy of the Polish state, which should actually be reflected in the increased financial expenditures. That's why I want to say that this project is a project that is going in the right direction. I have the feeling that the real intentions that were behind this project... Apparently, your office is a much better place to work on Eastern projects or Eastern policy than an office or a building at al. It's a decoy. They were good intentions, but I have the impression that too little ambition - I clearly want to say this - especially in the financial dimension. The Minister mentioned that the budgetary consequences of the introduction of these new regulations would be to increase, perhaps two times, a fairly small amount for this purpose so far, which I agree with. 60 million - I think that the Polish state can afford more, to really facilitate both the arrival in Poland or the original Poles who were brutally sent to the former Soviet Union at the time, or their descendants, because in most cases it will actually concern their descendants and facilitate their start and adaptation in new conditions, often, what is much to say, difficult, also in our country. In view of the above, I would like to say this: certainly attention is given to the fact that the definition of the repatriate deserves absolute support, the extension of this set of spouses and family members who are not ethnic Poles. Without a doubt, it deserves to be supported by a maximum waiting period for a repatriation decision of up to 3 years, and this is a good direction, as well as an incentive for municipalities to establish a personal assistant who helps those in need in the first 2 years of adaptation, in the form of a family assistant or a repatriate assistant. These are good solutions. However, in relation also to the words of Mr Baska from PSL, my previous speaker, I have the impression that the 25,000 that are foreseen for a person in connection with the possibility of finding a place to live in our country is indeed very little, given the financial conditions prevailing in the real estate market. And, Mr President, I would like to tell you that I have the impression that it is not so that, at the same time as funding [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the repatriate, the grant would be granted to the municipality...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u340	Thank you very much. You've run out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u341	...but either-or, what is actually... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u342	Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarni Club, will now speak, please. About now, I'm sorry. [[I don't know who left it, Marshal.]] Thank you very much. [[Oh, it's the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards a very important government bill amending the Repetition Act and some other laws. The government bill is the fulfillment of the promise made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło during the meeting with the repatriates on the 80th anniversary of the first mass deportation of Poles to Kazakhstan by the Soviet authorities. She assured that the government would do everything to ensure that any willing Pole and Pole could return to their homeland. Important among the solutions introduced is that the Act, in addition to establishing new forms of aid, also financial, redefines the repatriate. Thanks to this, Polish citizenship will not only be able to obtain people who are repatriated, but also their spouses. This is undoubtedly a good solution to prevent the separation of families and to help those who yearn for their motherhood to make their return decisions. In accordance with the draft law, the President of the Council of Ministers will appoint a representative of the government for repatriation, whose task will be to coordinate all activities related to the return of our compatriots to their homeland. His work, together with the creation of an advisory and advisory body in the form of the Council for Repatriation Affairs, will facilitate and speed up the organisation of return to the country of those who have been waiting for this possibility for years. The law, which is worth pointing out, meets the expectations of the repatriate environment, with which it was widely consulted. The needs and concerns of the repatriates were also known during discussions with local governments and organisations dealing with this issue. Poland's policy towards repatriates has not yet been effective. The previous government has done nothing to shorten the waiting time of several years for our compatriots and their families to settle in Poland as part of their repatriation. This is why over the years, the number of people interested in returning to their country has increased avalanchely. Data from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration show that at the end of November 2013 more than 2.6 thousand thought about re-locating in Poland. foreigners of Polish origin from the East. Supreme Audit Chamber Report It also leaves no illusions and exposes how far-reaching the PO-PSL government was to care for our compatriots living in the East. It indicates that the Polish legal system did not allow effective action in the form of resettlement actions of people declaring Polish origin. In the light of the above, the need to adopt this project is undeniable. Poland should take care of its ties with our fellow countrymen regardless of their current location. Today we are talking about repatriates from the East, but let us not forget also many Poles living in other parts of the world. Our diplomacy should take as much action as possible so that our countrymen outside Poland are still close. I hope that this bill will be supported by all clubs and parliamentary circles, because in this one we may agree that the fate of our compatriots, regardless of their place of residence, should not remain indifferent to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u344	Thank you very much. The questions were raised by 13 people, ladies and gentlemen. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Ms Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u345	Thank you very much. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, each of us would like to return as soon as possible to all the Polish repatriates. There's nothing to argue about. So far, many local governments have done so. A good example is, for example, Gdansk, where 49 families were brought in, got apartments, are taken care of, the work also received, so that this is a great example. But it was actually calculated that, Minister, there are now 12,000. people who look forward to coming to Poland, repatriates. And this cost was also calculated. That's not what the Minister said. God forbid, I don't want to question the Minister's words, but I realized this cost is 385 million. It's about the $12,000. In the 2017 reserve... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u346	Thank you very much, Member. I'm gonna stick to time because we're late. Ms Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. You're welcome. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Mr. Marshal, two seconds wouldn't save us.]] [[I wanted to ask you a question...]] You had a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Specialists predict that after the entry into force of the amendment of the Act by 2025, about 13 and 15 thousand will arrive in Poland. The repatriates. One of the main criteria determining the location of their settlement will be the ease of finding a job. Undoubtedly, in Poland, the easiest job to get is to work in large cities, where at the same time there is a huge deficit of municipal housing. It will therefore be necessary to rent apartments from the private market. For this reason, I ask for information on the extent to which the amendment of the law will affect the rental prices of apartments in the commercial market, for which even students or young families eat. In addition, I ask for information concerning the age structure and education of the repatriates who wish to come to Poland. We'd love to see, for example. young doctors or doctors at all, but also representatives of other professions, especially medical ones. Please also specify the number or percentage of repatriates who have acquired foreign pension rights [[♪ The bell ♪]] or a pension.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u348	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u349	I fit in. I just want to add that I'm asking for an answer in writing, because some of you might not know today.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u350	Now the question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice. [[You couldn't finish your sentence.]] I'm very sorry. You have a minute to ask a question. [[Just a minute. Mr. Marshal, you're joking.]] No, I'm not kidding. [[It's a limitation of rights.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that the matter of repatriation has not been settled to this day is a burden on our consciences. Minister! I would like to ask: Does the Act define the powers of the members of the Repetition Board and how they are appointed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u352	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Everyone interested in repatriating was waiting for this bill. Unfortunately, the government's proposal for material aid to its countrymen is poor and our countrymen will not be delighted with it. Firstly, too little money to solve housing issues, low or very low amount for development and short stay in the resort. Often the municipalities had better proposals for repatriates. I have a question: Why doesn't the government make a better material proposal to Poles in the East? I think that our country can afford to finally solve the problem of the return of Poles to their homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u354	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Mr Piotr Polek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u355	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On your hands, I thank you for finally preparing a good bill for the repatriates. We remember previous years, the last eight years. Only in July, or after almost 8 years, did an appropriate project of our predecessors appear, even imperfect. In view of the above, I would like to ask, because just now my previous speaker said that there are not enough resources. Previously, it was, as I recall, 9 million PLN a year, and it was not yet used in the state budget. Now we're offering 60 million and it's a good thing that it is. I would like to ask, Minister, if, in connection with the consultations that were ongoing on this project, there was also an analysis of the idea of supporting the repatriates in getting an apartment in the 500+ program, because I read somewhere, I found such information that the subject had changed too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u356	Thank you. The question is asked by Mieczysław Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When it comes to families that have been accepted for practically 10, 15, 18, 20 years, I will give you an example of Sokółka, where we have adopted families from Kazakhstan who have raised children well. So I'm setting a good example. My questions. They will be granted to the repatriates a place to live. The draft law provides for the grant from the state budget to the municipality, you can apply for reimbursement. And how does that happen if the housing estate is granted by the county council, the voivodship or the foundation or the association? Second question: What will happen to those repatriates who, after staying in the resort, will not meet the expectations, whose stay will be assessed by the resort unsatisfactoryly, who will not meet the conditions for settling in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u358	Thank you very much. You ask Lech Kołakowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would very much like to thank the Minister, the Prime Minister, for preparing such a bill. I come from the region of Podlaskie Voivodeship, from the land of Łomża, which was so severely affected by repression, excavations. I will remind you that about 1.5 million Polish citizens were exported from the borders of the Second Republic of Poland, while more than 24 thousand were exported from Łomża land. persons. My family has also experienced these sad events. I am a descendant of Sibiraks and hence my moral duty to speak. Thank you very much, as I said, for preparing this bill, which is very expected. I would like to consider - just one question - the possibility of adaptation, assimilation in families, after completing [[♪ The bell ♪]] Some selections...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u360	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to thank you very much for this bill, too. From my observations, in addition to the problems of living, often adaptive, those repatriates who were brought to Poland had problems simply finding a job according to qualifications. I know of a case where a chemist engineer worked as a janitor at a school in one of the subterranean municipalities. I wanted to ask you how it's going to be now, if there's any help in finding a job and how it's going to be with the recognition of the certificates and diplomas of the people who come to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u362	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the basic and elementary thing about repatriation, which the Minister had the honour to mention, namely the teaching of the Polish language. Therefore, my question, which I would ask for a written answer, is: What work does the government lead to the emergence of a website where a Pole who does not speak Polish and residents outside the country, because this concerns not only post-communist countries, will be able to learn Polish? These issues also concern Poles in Brazil, etc. I am happy to welcome this project because I belong to a generation that 20, 25 years ago saw a Polish teacher go to Kazakhstan for 2 weeks, a Polish language teacher, and German at the same time flew by plane within a few hours. I am glad that finally the Polish state can afford to remember its sons and daughters. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u364	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Are there any discussions with the Ministry of Science on the nostrilisation of diplomas and the Ministry of Economy on the recognition of the professional qualifications of persons who will be introduced into the labour market in connection with the repatriation process? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u366	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Anna April, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have three questions. Aren't you afraid that there will be obstacles at local government level that will block the smooth implementation of this law? How would you like to motivate local governments to be active in this area? Can the Living+ programme be included in the implementation of this scheme? I have one more comment. I have listened here to the speech of the Member of the Civic Platform. It's hard not to ask here if we know something, because from what I remember, the Platform and PSL coalition ruled in 2015. Since this bill, which you're so divorced about here, was so excellent, it's kind of rubbing off on the cabaret, because you're signing that you were completely incompetent in order to adopt this important bill, and today you're asking us your complaints. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] It doesn't hold up at all, so to speak, poop. That's it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u368	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club... [[First the question, and then I'd like to refer to ad vocem...]] Ad vocem? That's not gonna happen. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Three questions. First. The project was consulted, it was in Pultusk. It was a different project, much better. Tell me what the reason for these changes is, because those who consulted also ask this question. That's question one. Second question. A huge request to provide records that say that insurance will not be for 90 days, and for much more, until you get a job. I couldn't find that record. I'd really appreciate it. And finally, the third thing. Not in the amount of money, not in the conditions that the repatriates will receive, is the essence of their arrival in Poland. That's the most important thing. In the meantime, I will really be delighted if people accept these conditions and come to these adaptation centers. I don't think that's gonna happen. Can I say ad vocem right away, Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u370	You've got six more seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u371	Dear Member, I would like to refer you to the committee's report. We had most, it's true... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Member. [[What a... one sentence you can't...]] Now the question is asked by Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask if it is true that, for 5 years, between 2010 and 2015, the previous governing team, specifically the Civic Platform, has blocked the citizens' bill from over 200,000. signatures requested by the sleeper. Mr Maciej Płażyński, for whom the opposition club of Law and Justice was also in favour of this project. For five years, the project has not been processed and nothing has happened in the topic of repatriation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u373	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to these questions and comments that were raised during this discussion, I would like to thank you for your support for the declarations that the project will be supported by all clubs. I'm very happy for you. I hope that, during the work of the committee, sensible amendments will be adopted so that this project is even more perfect than it is now. I'm just gonna answer some questions briefly. I will start with Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. Indeed, at the meetings of the National Council of the Association, the Polish Community has repeatedly grieved, because the citizens' project, which was created by the dead. Marshal Płażyński, is blocked by coalition. Unfortunately, it's been blocked for many years. In fact, what you're saying right now... You were the president of the subcommittee that contributed to this blocking. I could really say so at this point in your place: I am sorry, I am ashamed, unfortunately we have neglected this matter, we are glad that the successors are fixing it. Really, Commissioner, let us remember these years. [[Bravo!]] On the other hand, returning to these comments at this point, as regards the relief for employers, because in this project was so excellent, I would remind you that we are amending the Reparation Act, but we are not removing those records which were, which are and remain. Very comprehensive about helping employers, among others. Chapter 6 of that Law, Art. 23.28. I am sending here for more detailed analyses, but the employer receives among others. reimbursement of training of up to three times a month's salary, reimbursement of paid salary during the year, if the repatriate is employed for a period of 24 months - reimbursement relates to a minimum salary, and thus, together with contributions, it is a small amount - reimbursement of the cost of creating a job, etc. So really, this help is quite important. We don't criticize her, we don't change her, she still stays. That's the answer to the question of why she's not in this new bill. It just stays in the old one we're just changing. Another case concerns the proxy and whether or not it is needed. Of course, this can be treated differently, but if we want to take the matter seriously and carry out the repatriation effectively, it should be the person responsible, also politically responsible, and it should not be as it is now: it is not known which official you are looking at. The Supreme Control Board report is really devastating. Please read this report, 2014, it evaluates the current form of repatriation. I'm not gonna quote the transcripts here, maybe there'll be an opportunity at the committee meeting. What will the council do - this is another question, there have been many such questions - whether it is needed at all and whether it will have something to do? Well, the Repetition Council will certainly have something to do. Many people who are socially involved in the search for housing can already be identified. We stress once again - this is also the answer to one of the questions - that not only local governments will be able to offer these apartments to repatriates. The road is open, local governments, if they want, please go ahead: county, communal, voivodship, also private person, developer within the program It really is a comprehensive aid, whatever it is, also a comprehensive possibility of financing the purchase or financing or financing the rent, if anybody wants. There's no obligation on a repatriate to give an apartment, and he's gonna change jobs in a year or two. Maybe it's better that he has a rent payment, and in two years' time he'll change his mind, change his place of work, change his apartment, and get a payday. Of course, it can be said that the amount of $25,000. It's too small, you could say it's too big or any other, but that's the amount. quite precisely calculated. Namely calculated in such a way that it is an amount which significantly supports the repatriate family, but this does not mean that we are to offer the repatriates a luxurious apartment for 200 and 300 thousand. If someone has a good job, if they get an apartment - an example family of four - 100,000, 6,000. for development, which means we have 124 grand, and that's what he's gonna pay, and even if he's gonna take credit for the other 40 grand. or 50,000, well, our citizens have a share of their own, and some of them take part in the loan. Leaving a large amount of money behind would be a fish dish, not a fishing rod. This, on the other hand, is really a fishing rod and helping to get a job, which is the amount that encourages activity and not just passiveness. Next line. Whether adaptation centres are able to cope with language learning, etc.? Of course, the discussion is ongoing, while the intention is that intensive Polish language learning lasts 3 months - very intensive, several hours a day - under the supervision of teachers of Polish language specialists for foreigners, because that must be the case. The experiences, which can be said at the moment, are very promising, because repatriates learn Polish 6 hours a day and after 3 months, if they did not even know a word in Polish, speak Polish, of course still with an accent, but they are already able to communicate perfectly. I think it's working right now, and that's what's left of it. Here's another topic. Aren't we forgetting about helping Poles in the East and Poles living in other places? Of course not, and this help is still provided. He is responsible for this, among others. The Senate. This year it allocates PLN 75 million to help Poles in various parts of the world. The marshal tells me I should be off, but just a few more sentences. As regards the calculation of Małgorzata Chmiel, that she is expecting 12 thousand help. repatriates, which will cost PLN 385 million, remind you that in this law we assume a total cost of 475, which is more than what Mrs Chmiel is asking for. [[Where's the money?]] Where's the money? The budget needs to be read in the coming years, Commissioner. [[30 million is for this year.]] But that's 30 million this year because we're running this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u375	Minister, please do not argue with Members at the moment, this is not the place for an individual discussion. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: If the bill comes into force from May, it's actually going to be six months for implementation, so this 30 should be enough. Sixty pairs are scheduled for next year, etc. So, Commissioner, you can crook, while you gave 5 or 8 million. And what's the point of this discussion? I'm surprised to hear from representatives of the Civic Platform who haven't done anything in so many years... [[Yes.]] ...and now he's criticizing, and he's got no clue what he's after. [[Applause]] Another issue is the 500+ apartment program. Of course, the 500+ apartment, as for every Polish citizen, will also be a very good idea for the repatriates and this contribution, which they receive as part of the grant, will be an excellent contribution to the 500+ apartment. I already told you about the premises. As regards work according to qualifications, recognition of certificates and diplomas - of course, yes. The only exception here, I admit, the problem is medical diplomas, because unfortunately this is a diploma that is honored or recognised throughout the European Union, so here it will be required... [[Nostrification.]] ...not simply nostrification in the form of rewriting a diploma, but only additional recognition by a medical university. The Minister of Health declared that he would appoint one medical university to recognise these diplomas, but probably after checking qualifications, because in those professions which are licensed, and such a profession is e.g. The profession of doctor, the responsibility is much greater. In the case of other professions, however, there is no problem. A note about the website for learning Polish is very valuable. This is a very good idea - Mr Piotr Pyzik - I think we will note this. This is of course a technical thing, it doesn't have to be included in the bill, it just needs to be done. That's pretty much all in short... Thank you very much, Minister. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: ...because of your speeding up of the marshal. I answered the questions. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Thank you very much, Minister, also for the discipline of time. By way of exception, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, corrigendum - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u376	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I did not mean the bill prepared by the Platform, which was adopted, stopped it by President Lipiński. Why was it so long? Three years, not five years. See, September 24th is this material. Because Mr. Płażyński himself said: 700 million PLN is too much, you have to prepare a cheaper bill. We did it and we presented the project. But I asked, and it was in the correction mode, why the government project was changed - I have a content that is completely different - much more beneficial. And that's all I asked. It was consulted in the fall, in September, in the Pultusk. A much better project, so I'm asking you why you left this really much better project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u377	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u378	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill aims at speeding up the return of repatriates to the country and introducing new forms of aid, including financial aid. Has the scope of the proposed changes been consulted with the repatriate community in Poland and abroad? What is the reason that the number of repatriates has been falling steadily since 2007 and the time to settle in Poland as part of the repatriation can be up to 10 years? What is the oldest matter of waiting for repatriation to Poland? How long can the repatriation of people who are waiting for Poland take place if this law does not enter into force? A grant for the municipality that will provide the repatriates with a residential establishment. The municipality can receive up to 25,000. zł na repatriate. Does that mean he can get $100,000 for a four-person family? Evil?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u379	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on repatriation and certain other laws, contained in print No. 1378, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the restitution of national cultural objects (print No 1371). In this case, please speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mrs Magdalena Gawin. Please state the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u380	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I know we have very little time, very much delay. I will try to speak briefly to explain the importance of this bill. The main objective of the proposed act on the restitution of national cultural objects is to transpose into Polish law Directive 2014/60 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State, amending Regulation No 1024/2012 of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the restitution of cultural goods in a comprehensive and uniform manner is intended primarily to regulate this area, this entire field of activity in the country, in particular by introducing key categories and concepts into Polish legislation, and by regulating the competence and general competence of bodies in restitution matters. It should be noted that the draft law was very complicated in nature, because the directive covers several different areas of law, including: civil property law, civil proceedings, provisions relating to the matter of specific laws, e.g. on court bailiffs, executions, on court costs, public international law, private international law, European Union law, substantive criminal law, criminal proceedings, customs law, administrative proceedings, antiquities protection law and specific laws: on museums, on national archival resources, on libraries, on the conduct and organisation of cultural activities. I could still list all these different rights, and because of the delay, I won't. The most important element of this law is that it shapes the concepts and institutions whose existence in national order assumed and established regulations of the European Union, first of all it introduces a key legal term - namely national cultural goods - which has not yet been introduced into Polish legislation. The Act also defines the competence and competence of bodies in matters of restitution of cultural goods. In this context, it is of particular importance that the draft rules on cooperation between the Minister responsible for Agriculture and Rural Development are laid down. culture and protection of national heritage with the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs in cases where restitution takes place on the basis of standards of international law. The Act - I would also like to stress - goes beyond the matter of the protection of monuments, because the provisions of Directive 2014/60, which I have already mentioned, are not limited to restitution to monuments themselves, but relate primarily to various artifacts, which are precisely the term of a cultural good. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, we know that the lack of regulation on the restitution of cultural goods undermines the effectiveness of this task, that it is indeed a very important task for the whole Polish country - especially for Poland, because, as we know, the restitution of cultural goods refers to these artifacts and monuments that were simply stolen during World War II. Surely we cannot fully undo the effects of the massive looting that took place during the years of the war, but above all we can mitigate them in some way and this is what the draft law is designed to do. I would just like to mention the activities of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, because we know that this was not just about the war itself and the activities of the invaders, but also about the fatal politics of the Polish People's Republic, because basically restitution measures ceased in the 1950s and it was possible to initiate these actions after 1990. Since 1992, the Ministry of Culture has continuously collected data on war losses of the art department from the territory of the Republic of Poland and is taking action to recover them. I wanted to mention here that the record of lost works includes 23 departments, including painting, which is probably the most famous, but also: sculpture, graphics, furniture, fabrics, porcelain, glass, goldsmithy, militaria, numismatic and archaeological collections. So far 63 objects have been entered into this register of artifacts or cultural goods lost. We're looking for almost 7,000. paintings by Polish artists, including Aleksandr Gierymski, Jan Matejki, Jack Malczewski or Stanisław Wyspiański. Among the works of foreign painting are such names as Rubens, Rembrandt and Dürer. Polish war losses are also recorded by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in international databases such as Art Loss Register and Stoneworks of Art. This wide international cooperation has led to the return of 341 valuable objects, worth more than PLN 8 million, due to the efforts of the Ministry of Culture in the last five years. And this is where we come to this last purpose of the bill. Let us remember that the plundered works of art and cultural goods during the war are simply very valuable objects. They should return to their rightful owner, i.e. to the Republic of Poland, and this is what this law is supposed to serve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u381	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law was implemented, as the Minister said, in the provisions of the EU directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union. The aim of the Directive is to protect the integrity of the cultural heritage of each of the European Union countries by facilitating their investigation into the return of cultural goods illegally removed from their territories. The protection of cultural and national heritage, including one of the basic measures of this protection, which is the restitution of cultural goods, has not yet been regulated in a comprehensive and uniform manner in Poland. For this purpose, they are used, among others. regulations under civil law concerning the protection of property which, however, are not adapted to the specificities of such proceedings. The Act defines the authorities competent for the restitution of cultural objects carried out by the Republic of Poland on its territory and abroad, their tasks and powers, and introduces new categories and concepts in Polish legislation, such as national cultural goods, cultural goods or public collections. The draft law sets out the rules of procedure for the return from the European Union of Polish national cultural objects removed from our country in violation of the law. The project also contains provisions on the procedure for the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the European Union country from Poland. According to the project, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage will be responsible for the restitution of cultural goods. It is intended to take action at home and abroad to recover the lost cultural object. There have also been cases where the Minister has an obligation of office to deal with the matter of return of property. The Minister will also cooperate with the relevant institutions of the EU countries and support mutual consultation on the return of cultural goods within the European Union. As a result, Poland will be able to benefit from the simplified procedure of restitution of Polish national cultural goods established by European Union law. Provisions have also been introduced to improve the procedure for ordering the return of cultural objects in the territory of the EU country and eliminating the existing gaps and legal uncertainties. Legal regulations are foreseen to secure the found cultural property. Criminal provisions have also been introduced relating primarily to behaviour that hinders proceedings for the return of the foreign national cultural object. In short, it is a project that offers an opportunity for the most effective and faster recovery of the unlawful lost cultural goods. This is particularly important in the light of the continuing problems with the recovery of cultural goods lost by Poland as a result of World War II. The Law and Justice Club supports and recommends that the Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods be passed to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u383	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u384	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the government draft law on the restitution of national cultural goods, print No. 1371. The proposed law is intended to transpose into Polish law Directive 2014/60 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State. The obligation to adopt this law arises from the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Directive, which requires the Member States of the European Union to implement this Directive into national law. The aim is to protect the integrity of the cultural heritage of each Member State by facilitating countries' return of cultural objects illegally exported to another Member State. Currently, Polish law does not contain rules governing the restitution of cultural goods. Civil property protection regulations have been used for this purpose, but they are not adapted to the specifics of such proceedings. The bill introduces the legal definition of the cultural object and presents it as a monument, but also as a moving non-historical object, i.e. collections of contemporary art whose behaviour is in the public interest either because of artistic, historical or scientific value or because of its importance for heritage and cultural development. The second definition contained in the bill is public collections, i.e. collections, for which the period for initiating recovery proceedings was extended from 30 to 75 years. The bill also states that museums will be protected in the inventory of museums in the museum and library materials belonging to the national library resource and national cultural objects which are archival materials. Rules of procedure were laid down on the return from the European Union of Polish national cultural goods removed from our country in violation of the law, but there is also a chapter devoted to the return from Poland of cultural goods exported in violation of the law from countries other than the EU. According to the draft law, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage will be responsible for the restitution of cultural goods. It is the minister who is to take action in the country and abroad to recover cultural goods. The project specifies when the Minister is obliged to deal with the return of monuments permanently exported abroad. The Minister also has the right to cooperate with the institutions of the EU countries. The provisions of the Directive are mainly standards governing the powers of the Member States of the European Union seeking to protect their cultural heritage in the territory of the Republic of Poland. As a result, gaps in Polish law concerning the scope of the powers of the state authorities in restitution matters will be eliminated and Poland will be able to use the procedure of simplified restitution of Polish national cultural goods. The effectiveness of the protection of Polish cultural heritage will also be increased. In addition, the bill provides for the introduction for companies and persons involved in the marketing of cultural goods, the obligation to keep registration books and expert reports issued by them. There are doubts about the draft law, but I hope that it will be resolved during further legislative work. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will be in favour of further proceding the bill in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u385	Thank you very much. Ms Elżbieta Borowska will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill presented is the implementation of the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Polish soil. It introduces a detailed procedure for the return of cultural goods, which should be acknowledged - it has never been fully regulated on Polish soil. Actually, the restitution process was not regulated at all, and given that Poland is one of the most at risk of crime against the cultural heritage of countries in Europe and that we do not have a coherent system of protection at all, the issue of ordering the restitution process is indeed a positive aspect, especially since for Poland the restitution process is particularly important because most of our resources have been lost as a result of World War II and also earlier, it is about time for partitions. This also applies to subsequent thefts, e.g. precious objects from temples, sculptures from roadside shrines - this is also a big problem in Poland. The proposed procedure does not only cover monuments, and this is a good solution. It also includes museums, archives and library materials. This increases the legal security of these valuable items. The individual services also receive new tools for action. One problem in Poland is that we still do not have a specialized unit, e.g. in the police - such units operate in other countries, for example in Italy - and this makes monitoring of lost cultural goods is limited and all these tools are unused. Let us hope that this improved procedure will be more effective when it comes to the recovery of lost goods, e.g. from Germany or Austria, but it should be stressed that restitution measures are very diverse depending on whether they are carried out under Anglo-Saxon, Continental or national law. So this procedure can be different. An important issue in these proposed amendments is inter alia. extending the deadline for the return of the cultural object - which was actually needed - as well as introducing the concept of the public collection and defining the nature of its protection. Issues concerning compensation for the holder of the good for whom a claim for reimbursement has been made have been clarified and which, however, cared for the object in question. An important change is also the obligation to use the information exchange system in the internal market. Failed recovery is an indication of the subsequent recovery of cultural goods, which is why it is so important that this process is carried out effectively so as not to create unwanted precedents. The presented project also regulates a number of other issues, such as the reimbursement of costs incurred with the restitution process - these costs are many times very high, even if the expertise is very expensive - whether the issues of proper management of the good recovered still during the process. It goes on for example. to transfer the good to a specialized unit. There are some problems that have been highlighted during the public consultation. Among other things, it is a clarification of the concept of Polish subject matter, because in the case of the possession of such good by an ethnic or religious minority - the issue e.g. precious objects in churches - this is indeed problematic. The lack of a definition of the national cultural object, and the object, to be protected, must be so qualified. There is no solution if the item has been legally exported but was later unlawfully taken over. This matter, on the other hand, is indeed extremely delicate. We are very pleased that these issues will eventually be settled. The Kukiz Club15 supports the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u387	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the club, Mr Grzegorz Furgo. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, already during the interwar period, a cell was created at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the aim of restitution of cultural goods exported from Poland. Her work focused first on importing poloniums from Russia on the basis of the Russian Treaty of 1921. The Second World War interrupted this work, and at the same time caused the collection of cultural goods lost by institutional and private owners in Poland to grow to superb sizes. The war losses suffered by Poland in the field of cultural goods are extremely difficult to estimate, and it is often impossible. A significant part of the original source documentation, such as inventory books or inventories, has been exported or deliberately destroyed by the German occupation or Soviet troops, so full restoration of the pre-war resources of many leading collections and collections is unrealistic. The registration of damages suffered by the Polish culture began in September 1939 and was conducted throughout the occupation period. In 1944, Polish historians operating in the underground prepared the first aggregate lists covering the loss of both public and private collections. It was the first loss statement to take account of losses incurred by all owners, including Catholic churches and synagogues, as well as associations, museums and private collections. After the end of the war, this material became a basic collection for the loss register developed by the Bureau of Recovery and Compensations operating at the Ministry of Culture and Art, and was used by the Polish restitution mission looking for cultural goods exported from Poland and which could be located in the occupation zones in Germany and Austria. This office was wound up in 1951. Currently, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs estimates that the number of lost works of art, whether exported or destroyed, is about 516 thousand. objects, subject to the fact that this number cannot give up the real state due to the conscious action of the occupiers. It covers only those objects that were registered in the post-war years, focusing mainly on works of ancient art. Since 1992. The Ministry of Culture and Art registered 63 thousand. monuments lost from Poland within its current borders. The law we are discussing today is to fill the gap in Polish legislation on restitution of lost cultural goods. This huge number of lost objects, the deep sense of loss that we are experiencing together, confirms the need for regulations in force in each of Europe's countries. Until now, it has often been easier for the Polish state to block an ongoing auction with a target in the United States than in Europe. The Law on the Restitution of National Cultural Goods is primarily a transposition into Polish legislation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Community. The obligation to adopt a law arises from the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Directive, which requires the Member States of the European Union to implement the Directive into Polish law. The law is to adapt the existing Polish law to the new legal status in EU law. The general objective of the Directive and the Law on the Restitution of Cultural Goods is to regulate, harmonise and, above all, facilitate the recovery of cultural goods illegally exported to another country within the European Community. This law is intended to protect the integrity of the cultural heritage of each European State by establishing its priority in the exercise of the rights of its citizens and public institutions in the recovery of lost cultural goods. The Act establishes a legal mechanism for the recovery of a cultural object, which is carried out before a court of the State in whose territory the cultural good was carried out, at the request of the Member State seeking reimbursement. The other party to this proceeding is the current holder of the cultural object. An extremely important feature of this law is, from the point of view of Polish history, the establishment of the primacy of the protection of the cultural heritage of a Member State over the rights of the owner of the cultural object, because the purpose of EU regulation is to protect the cultural heritage of each individual Member State and the integrity of that heritage. On the other hand, it may also happen that a citizen who, as a result of crime lost [[♪ The bell ♪]] The good of culture that has been carried out, will bring...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u389	Thank you very much, sir. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u390	...a benefit from the action of the state that sought the return of this good. I'll finish up, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u391	Mr. Krystian Jarubas, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party... [[We're in favour. In general, we support it.]] [[Applause]] ...and Mr Ireneusz Gains from the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle presented their votes in writing. 11 people, ladies and gentlemen of the House have asked questions. I'm closing the list... [[One more person.]] One more person, I write down 12 people. I'm shutting down the voice mailing list. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Let me remind you that I will follow the discipline of time. Please, Mr. Maciej Masłowski, the Kukiz club15, is the first to ask a question. There's no envoy. [[I'm here, I'm here, I'm here.]] Oh, sir. [[You'll be pleased, Marshal.]] I'm glad. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Will the proposed law have any real impact on Poland's recovery of the works of art currently in the State Museums of the Russian Federation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u393	Mr President, you deserve a medal. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is intended to create better conditions for a more efficient and faster recovery of illegally seized, lost cultural goods. Implements the provisions of the EU directive on the return of cultural goods. I wanted to remind you that during the time when the restitution of cultural goods was taken care of, among other things. The Department of Cultural Heritage led by Minister Omilanowska, the works of Gierymski, Bilińska, Falat and Wojtkiewicz returned to Poland. Despite the complex legal framework in which department workers had to move to recover their works, they did so very effectively. This demonstrates their high level of competence and commitment. Therefore, I would like to ask for information about works of art recovered by Poland for the last 16 months, [[♪ The bell ♪]] under the rule of law and justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u395	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u396	Does the Ministry have any success in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u397	Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Of course we do.]] [[Well, show it to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask what percentage of the cultural goods identified lost during World War II have been found and thanks to this law these goods will be able to return to Poland in a more efficient, effective way. Is there any way to estimate that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u399	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law generally sets out rules for the handling of cultural resources unlawfully removed from Poland, but also the other way. But I, by the way, have a question about the recovery of goods between the various entities in our country, where the unauthorised change of holder often occurred many years ago due to various random cases. I personally know such an example, which concerns the historic 15th-century sculpture of the beautiful Madonna from the parish church in Kazimierz Dolny, borrowed and exported from the church in 1935. It is now owned by the National Museum and despite the long-standing efforts of the parish and the local community to recover the sculpture, it is impossible, and the basis is the judgment of the Supreme Court of 1965 on the basis of the decree of 8 March 1946 on abandoned and German estates. Is there any change in such proceedings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u401	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u402	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here about the Polish collections, which are in the wrong, say, possession after World War II, my friends and my colleagues speak and will speak a lot. But I'd like to ask a simpler question. Namely, there is a country in Europe that has our goods, such as stairs to the Royal Library in Stockholm. I wanted to ask you about the return of these prestiges in a way, because it is the achievements of Polish culture, there is Polish blood and it is our tradition. Next case. I had the privilege of being at the Polish embassy in London and seeing to my surprise the portrait of a young man named Rafael. It turned out to be a very faithful copy, of course. On the other hand, I would also like to ask what is happening in the space of searching for these Polish collections not only in Europe, but also in the United States and South America, because - as we know - today there are probably already people in Asia who can afford illegal possession of Polish national goods. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u403	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u404	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question because there's a cell phone at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about restitution. Is it also going to be a change in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to this cell led by Professor Kowalski? Here's another piece of information for you. Today there was news in the media that Gierymski is returning to Poland, one of the paintings by Gierymski, so there are some effects. A week ago, the painting came back to Snotlout, you could go and watch. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u405	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u406	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have three questions. Is it true that so far the matter of restitution of cultural goods wasn't it regulated in Poland? That's one thing. Secondly, whether, after the entry into force of this law, it will be subject to only those objects which belonged to the State Treasury, or whether they will be able to obtain aid for recovery e.g. Churches, religious unions or individuals? And will this bill speed up the return of goods lost during and before World War II? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u407	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Piotr Uruski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u408	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Until now, Polish law has not contained rules governing the restitution of cultural objects, and civil law provisions on the protection of property have been used for this purpose, but are not adapted to the specifics of such proceedings. It is therefore a good thing that this law is being made. The question is whether export restrictions are also covered by the Act, e.g. unprotected collections of contemporary art, which are often very valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u409	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a few questions about the bill. First of all, can and how will a procedated bill help to recover lost cultural goods? How much of the lost cultural goods can we recover with this bill? Are such actions ongoing today, and what is their number? Last one: Does the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage have a list, records or other inventory of the number and type of cultural goods we lost? And what are the chances of getting them back? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u411	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Will the Ministry clarify the concept of national cultural goods in the course of its legislative work? Protection concerns objects so qualified and needs to be covered as widely as possible by this protection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u413	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Cornel Morawiecki, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to know if there have been no attempts made by the Polish Semys since 1989 to try for the case we are now trying for. And yet the Polish state during World War II was subjected to terrible, cruel destruction, we were not to exist as Poles, the Germans did not export Polish archives after the Warsaw Uprising, but burned them. So should this matter only concern the restitution of goods that have survived somewhere, or should it not also concern the reparation of war for those goods that have been destroyed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Oh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u415	Thank you very much, Marshal. Now the question is asked by Mrs Anna April, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u416	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill on the restitution of national cultural goods is another proof that the Law and Justice protects our national achievements, this time in the area of culture. Does this law guarantee easier investigation in situations where there are behaviours involving obstruction of procedures for the return of national cultural goods, e.g. By concealing and giving false information about their storage? Are we becoming a country at an equal level among those countries that have already implemented the Directive? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u417	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Ms Magdalena Gawin. If the Minister wishes, of course. He's got, uh...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all Members very much for their very interesting questions. I didn't just write one down, so I'm gonna ask for help. The first question concerned how many cases we have in the Russian Federation. Thus, in 2004 the Polish party submitted to the Russian Federation by diplomatic means 10 restitution applications concerning objects found on the Russian web page presenting works of art of unknown provenicity, all of which are in the Museum of Fine Arts to them. Pushkin in Moscow. These are works of great rank, such as the painting of John Breughl the Elderly Landscape, Luke Cranach the Elder, Madonna with the Child, and many, many others. Seven further restitution applications were prepared and submitted in November 2012. They concern oil paintings, plate miniatures, crafts and manuscripts stored in the Museum of Fine Arts. Pushkina in Moscow and the State Museum of Fine Arts. Radisheva in Saratov. Two years later, five of these seven applications were supplemented by newly discovered source materials and were re-transmitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In November 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, in accordance with the recommendations of the International Auschwitz Council, has developed and forwarded to the Ministry three restitution applications concerning artifacts and archives exported to Russia from the Auschwitz concentration camp. They have great historical value. The documents are, we know, in three places: in the Military and Medical Museum of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation in St. Petersburg - I understand that they relate primarily to medical experiments and issues related to camp doctors in Auschwitz - in the Russian State Military Archive in Moscow and the State Archive of the Russian Federation in Moscow. A separate group are also objects which have been exported by Russia, i.e. by the Red Army, and these are very diverse collections: personal belongings of prisoners, human hair, some other such artifacts. All these requests were addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, requesting their transfer to the Russian Federation on 18 November 2014. In total, 20 restitution applications drawn up by the Ministry of Culture were addressed to the Russian party in 2004 and 2014 without a major response. Currently, the Ministry of Culture is developing further seven restitution proposals concerning images that were identified and which belonged to Poland before the war. That's the answer to the first question. Second question. Here I am very grateful to the Member of the Civic Platform that she wanted to speak so warmly about the department that is dealing with the restitution of goods. I also wanted to assure you that we have maintained continuity in this department, Mr. Miller, who has remained in office. I think this restitution of cultural goods is very dynamically conducted by the Department of Cultural Heritage. I can tell you that last year came back ok. 330 artifacts from the Łódź collection, which were located in three different places in Germany. The next question, the fourth question - I will return to the third question that you have asked, and I will now answer the fourth question. When it comes to internal phrases, because that's how I answered the question, how do you know? They are to be regulated, this law does not apply at all, rather it speaks of works illegally seized during the war or illegally seized also after the war, I do not know, as a result of stealing. With regard to the works in Sweden, the artifacts in Sweden, this matter is dealt with through bilateral agreements and certain diplomatic activities. The next question concerned relations between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I would like to say that in March 2016, the Foreign Minister closed down the Foreign Affairs Office. Restitution by Decision No 11. On the other hand, the article. 5 of this law specifically standardizes cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I do not have to tell you that any action that goes beyond the borders of the country, of course, assumes full cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the moment, we are carrying out very extensive diplomatic activities aimed at protecting the site of the former concentration camp KL Gusen. Although it is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, it always takes place in some agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Art. 5 of the proposed law defines in a very detailed way the relationship and cooperation between MFA and MKiDN. The main body for restitution is the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, while cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is maintained and detailed. Another question is whether the proposed law also applies to works that were stolen not only from Polish state institutions but also to private owners. Of course I do. The Ministry of Culture helps as much as possible, also facilitates the recovery of these cultural goods, which were simply stolen from private individuals, Polish citizens. Question eight concerned the scope of restitution, whether these are only objects stolen during World War II, or whether this also applies to contemporary art. I would just like to mention that these are most often objects included in the museum inventory or in the register of monuments and that they are of course covered by the full form of protection. This law or a project on the restitution of cultural goods It also applies to contemporary collections as much as possible. I was asked about the definition of a cultural object. Here I wanted to refer again to the proposed law, that is, ladies and gentlemen, to the article. 2 (4). The definition is that the national good of culture of the Republic of Poland is: a monument referred to in the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments; archival material forming part of the national archival stock referred to in Article. 1 and so on; non-historical matter, provided it is entered in the inventory of museums in museums which are cultural institutions; non-historical library material, classified as a national library resource; the monument referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 of the Act of 23 July 2003 on the protection of monuments and the care of monuments, which is not a monument... In a word, I think, I mean, I don't think, I'm sure that this bill defines in a very detailed way what the good of culture is. This extension of the concept of good culture was also needed because we cannot look Only that restitutions concern either painting or sculpture, with the word of something that was entered in the register, which is in the register, because it will also be. archive collections, such as: The library, the truth, the books, so it had to be extended. The next question was about this - now I will answer, because it also appeared in other questions - whether it really was so that Poland did not have a law on restitution of cultural goods. She didn't have it. This is indeed the first law, which in such a systematic way cleans up. It will certainly contribute to the fact that we will be able to carry out all proceedings more effectively and we will be able to recover goods belonging to the Republic of Poland more effectively, which in an illegal manner were simply stolen or otherwise taken from legitimate owners. I still have a huge request for a hint from your Member on the question. That was question number three I wrote down, but on which...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u419	You'll have the opportunity in committee to answer that question again. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: On the culture committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It was about the percentage exported...]] Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u420	Position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party vis-à-vis the government draft law on the restitution of national cultural goods, print No. 1371. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law prepared by the Ministry of Culture is a necessity for the implementation of European Union legislation. It specifically concerns the directive on the return of cultural objects which have been carried out outside the territory of the country unlawfully. The rules are intended to protect the integrity of the cultural heritage of each EU country by facilitating their investigation into the return of cultural objects illegally removed from their territories. So far it is quite unclear, because there is no regulation regarding restitution of works of art, cultural goods. This is particularly important in the context of works lost as a result of World War II. Regulation by clarifying the definition of the cultural object in our assessment can encourage Poland in its efforts to recover the lost works. At the same time, the project places greater responsibility on the Ministry of Culture for actions relating to the recovery of cultural objects abroad - it is also about consultation with EU organisations and institutions. As a result, Poland will be able to benefit from the simplified procedure of restitution of Polish national cultural goods established by EU law. The new regulations will also protect museums (not being monuments) included in the inventory of the museum which is an institution of culture and library materials belonging to the national library resource. Export restrictions will therefore also be covered by e.g. Unprotected collections of contemporary art, which are often very valuable. The new rules will improve return procedures while introducing new obligations for the export of works of art abroad. In the assessment of the club PSL is a good direction. We will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on the restitution of national cultural goods, print No. 1371. Poland, due to its geopolitical position and turbulent history over the centuries, has suffered many times in terms of destroying the living tissue of the nation, but also property damage and spoiling cultural goods. Our national achievements were regularly plundered and exported by invaders from the East and West. Many goods have been destroyed, many have also been lost irretrievably due to the destruction of documents and the impossibility of confirming their ownership. The state's policy to protect cultural heritage is extremely important in order to preserve and strengthen the identity of the nation. A disrespectful approach in this area can lead to pathology and threats we can see in Western Europe - in Germany or France. The terrorist threat and the lack of security in your own home are the result of multi-culti policy and the dilution of cultural identity. I believe that this phenomenon must be countered. The draft law submitted, which is a transposition of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, gives hope that the recovery of cultural goods constituting our historical heritage will become easier and will, as a result, contribute to strengthening national identity. During World War II, during the German occupation, our cultural goods, including moving monuments, were destroyed and robbed. The works of art belonging to the State and private individuals have been exported for years beyond the western border by German collectors. The entire loss was completed by the Russian wave of liberation of Polish lands. More efficient and faster recovery of lost cultural goods is not the sole objective of the law. The Act recognises both monuments and material objects that are not monuments but are important due to their artistic, historical, scientific or cultural value. Such a definition of cultural goods will allow protection against removal from Poland in the future, e.g. museums included in the inventory of the museum, collections of national library resources and unprotected collections of contemporary art. Closer documentation of the circulation of cultural goods and their property will certainly make it difficult to carry them out illegally and, in the event of a breach of law, quickly obtain information on the cultural objects subject to the offence. The bill states that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage will be responsible for the restitution of cultural goods. It is intended to take action - both at home and abroad - to recover the lost cultural object. There have also been cases where the Minister has an obligation of office to deal with the matter of return of property. The Minister will also cooperate with the relevant institutions of the EU countries and support mutual consultation on the return of cultural goods within the European Union. As a result, Poland will be able to benefit from the simplified procedure of restitution of Polish national cultural goods established by EU law. At this point, reference should be made to the legislative action of the European Parliament, which has recognised the problem of dispersing national cultural goods. The provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU, which underpin this draft law, will certainly increase the cultural integrity of the Member States of the European Union. The bill will increase the legal security of public, ecclesiastical, collections and private monuments in the event of theft or embezzlement. Action will be taken to prevent the recovery of lost goods by concealing or falsifying information about them. It is sad to note, however, that the question of regaining Polish cultural goods exported to the East or left by Poles in the East remains unresolved. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle fully support the bill on the restitution of national cultural goods.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u422	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the restitution of national cultural goods from print No. 1371 to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 19 April 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the request by the plaintiff, Robert Kropiwnicki, dated 9 December 2016 to consent by the Sejm to the civil liability of Mr Patrick Jaki (print No 1353). I ask Mr Piotr Uruski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u423	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the request of plaintiff Robert Kropiwnicki of 9 December 2016 to accept the Sejm's consent to the civil liability of Mr Patrick Jaki. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee, having considered this request at its meeting on 8 March 2017, pursuant to Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the plaintiff Robert Kropiwnicki's application be rejected on 9 December 2016 for the Sejm's consent to the civil liability of Mr Patryk Jaki. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u424	Thank you very much, sir. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the report of the committee by hearing only the rapporteurs. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act (Print No 1369). I ask Mr Krzysztof Sitarski to present the reasons for the bill. I thought you were leaving. [[No, no, no.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present a draft law amending the excise duty Act, which follows. The excise tax law proposes that the concept of passenger cars be deleted. This means that passenger cars will not be subject to this tax. Both imports into and exports from Poland of passenger cars would be exempt from excise duty. In the case of a passenger car, excise duties are subject to import, intra-Community acquisition, first sale in the territory of the country of a passenger car not previously registered in the territory of the country in accordance with traffic regulations. Currently, passenger cars with an engine capacity above 2 l are taxed at a rate of 18,6% on the basis of the tax base and those with a lower capacity are taxed at 3,1% calculated on the basis of the tax base. The tax base is the value of the car, the amount of the sale, purchase or customs value in import. The subject of taxation is a passenger car, understood as a motor vehicle, and other motor vehicles, but generally intended for passenger transport. Non-personal cars up to 3.5 t dmc, i.e. permissible total weight, shall not be subject to excise duty or transport tax. Question: "What is the definition of a passenger car according to tax regulations?" According to Art. 5a point 19a of the Act on PIT and art. 4a point 9a of the CIT Act on passenger cars is a vehicle within the meaning of road traffic regulations with a maximum permissible weight not exceeding 3,5 t, designed to carry no more than 9 persons including the driver. Economic growth, reindustrialisation stimulates demand for cars. Poles should be encouraged to buy vehicles that meet environmental standards. These opportunities need to be created rationally, without complications of life and the development of bureaucracy. The way to achieve the ecological outcome, i.e. to achieve climate objectives, is also the development of road infrastructure, including the replacement of the machine park of Poles. The average age of a car driving on Polish roads, according to the institutions that deal with it, car institutes, is 14 years old. The share of passenger cars in motor vehicles park in Poland is 75.5%. The number of these cars is estimated at almost 21 million registered units. Almost 94% passenger cars belong to individuals, citizens of our country. How will the elimination of excise duties stimulate the sale of new passenger cars and newer used cars? What benefits will you have? The benefits will be to increase the safety of road users. It is estimated that we will reduce the cost of road accidents, which currently amounts to PLN 30 billion per year. According to World Bank data, the National Health Fund spends 3 billion a year on the treatment of victims of accidents. This is the basic argument - the health of our citizens. The introduction of younger vehicles on the market will also benefit from the calculation of motor insurances OC and AC. The level of contributions to policies is expected to decrease due to the safety of mobile vehicles. Motorists practically maintain the state budget, but not only. The resolution of the removal of excise duties on passenger cars will give an impetus to increasing turnover for recycling companies. Recovery of re-use materials is supported by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Next thing. It should also be remembered that it is necessary to ensure the efficient use of cars owned by Poles. The idea of sharing means of transport is a solution to this idea. This enables widespread digitisation, computerisation of our lives. Kukiz.15 is against the fiscalisation of Poland. The implementation of the concept of removing excise duties on passenger cars will help to free up restrictions on access to the market for new and second-hand cars. This is practically the end of the division of the car sales sector into dealers, commissions and individuals. We are also convinced that this will reduce the process of reporting, registration in the country of passenger vehicles as heavy goods vehicles. In some extreme cases, Ferrari can be a truck. The provisions of Parliament should also provide businesses with convenient conditions for the marketing of services and products without any unauthorised action. It should be stressed that creating favourable terms for the purchase and sale transaction will reduce the final price of cars purchased by the citizen. There is such a thing as bringing second-hand vehicles from outside Poland, withdrawn from traffic, seriously damaged, considered by insurance companies as vehicles which have suffered total damage. The elimination of excise duties on passenger cars has long-term benefits. After fasting, it will no longer pay to bring scrap metal to Poland. This solution will encourage buyers to buy new or newer vehicles, but not classified as waste. That's another benefit. With regard to the above-mentioned issue, it is the role of the Polish state that vehicles purchased outside our country for use, for example. in parts were not registered in the country as full-value cars. In accordance with the view of the Supreme Administrative Court, the judgment of 15 October 2014 established that the acquisition of waste status by a vehicle depends on whether it can move on the roads, i.e. be useful in accordance with the original purpose, and therefore, we are against the introduction of waste into Poland, which is currently partly due to the fact that they are burdened with excise duties and crashed cars are much more attractive to buyers and are later repaired in Poland. In conclusion, cars are to be allowed to move smoothly, ecologically, modernly or more modernly than those which move, which are treated as full-value, but the purchase of these vehicles should be exempt from excise duty. Poles, citizens, drivers already bear sufficient costs of operating cars, e.g. by the taxes included in the fuel - you can boldly check - as well as by buying out very expensive motor insurance. It is also worth adding that the tax burden currently leads to registration of cars in neighbouring countries, and that is what is happening. In the south of Poland it is very often used to register a car, e.g. in the neighbouring Czech Republic. A car registered in the Czech Republic e.g. by Poles living in war. Silesian is purchased in the Czech Republic, where the Pole will pay the tax, where the Pole will register it, where the Pole pays the company for the review, where the Pole insurances it. The whole amount is allocated abroad and the car is used on Polish roads. It's also worth mentioning that... Let us give Polish companies dealing in motor vehicles, parts, accessories and repairs. That's $250,000. - such is the crowd of people directly involved in bringing in, selling second-hand cars, that is what workshops come to, that is what mechanics come to do, that is what wholesalers, parts come to do. Whole families live and generally reduce excise duty will increase in this sector in plus for the Polish country, which will translate into a return on new taxes in connection with the employment of new workers. The elimination of excise duties will also stimulate the value of exports of freight sub-category passenger cars, which currently amounts to 18.1%. The increase in sales of passenger cars will positively increase the revenue for the state budget due to the increase in VAT revenue, VAT on goods and services. For a reminder, e.g. Importing cars from the USA to Europe also includes customs clearance. Customs do not pay for cars imported from the European Union. And now what is the biggest Polish port? Hamburg. Because there are cars coming to Poland, Polish traders pay customs and tax in Germany because there is 19 percent VAT there, not 23 percent as in Poland, to just... 'Cause that's what's causing the excise duty. The elimination of excise duty will result in direct imports of cars from the United States through the Polish port and at that moment these charges will remain in our country. The proposal to abolish excise duties on passenger cars is part of the State's electromobility policy. The government announces reindustrialisation, so Poland should support modern industry. This will keep growing technology in the production of passenger cars also in Poland. Now let me just quote... Therefore, we have prepared talks with citizens throughout the country dealing with the car industry, import, and field work report. In general, the first arguments on the shore regarding the elimination of excise duties even on electric cars: in this case, the specific owner of the car - the electric car of Tesla - had to pay an excise duty of 10,000. zł. 10,000. PLN for electric car, and the argument was not quite clear, even none. Because yes - it was an official's argument. Finally, a brief summary: newer cars for Polish citizens due to the reduced price, if this excise duty does not result in greater security for our citizens, will improve the ecology and overall infrastructure of our country. I would ask you to support this project. Of course, if there are any objections, this should be discussed on the committees as much as possible, but I would ask for support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u426	Thank you. Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I had the honour and the pleasure, I think I can say, because it is not pleasantly critical - I will not hide - evaluate the project of an excellent, sympathetic friend of Sitarski, containing many inspirations, also having many interesting ideas and proposals, but as it is said, the strength of evil on one. Maybe not, but maybe I'll start at a modest time. It's a pity there's so little time. First of all, the reason why the parliamentary club did not support this request and that the proposal to reject this project in its entirety in its first reading is because of its trivial but cardinal, fundamental: unfortunately, money. Money, since it is true that the proposal says: 1.5 billion PLN and applicants propose that this loss in the budget cover the expected effects from sealing the VAT system. But let's talk here... There's no reason not to. Yeah, we're optimistic, we're assuming high growth. It is already beginning, but it has adopted tough solutions in the budget and not just in the budget. I am not talking about 500, but I am talking above all about pensions and other budgetary needs, which make debating unfair because we are not able to accept the draft of this content today. Therefore, the conclusion and the main financial aspect, as it were, does not allow us simply to pass it on to the reader. It is a pity, because it is worth discussing how excise duty should be set in Poland. In order to move on to a few other elements, I would like to say that there are some very important polemic arguments in this explanatory memorandum, even the latter, which are fundamental, but these are very debatable thesis which in practice would have to be verified. The paradox is even that there is a huge influx, 1,200 thousand in 2015. registered cars, it's true, we bring in old cars, which later fall apart, trigger the rage of the owners, it's a real feat of God, but it's the other side of the medal that makes the companies that live and live with it. That's the truth. It's a paradox, but that's what this is all about. If I read in the explanatory statement - I have to speed up - about excessive taxation, it does not stick to the proverbial, incoherently speaking, poo, because excessive means: let's decrease. This bill is about the liquidation of excise duties in general. If there's an argument that only in Europe... This is an interesting argument, attractive, intelligent, but there are many solutions in the Polish tax system, which are the only or few in Europe. One could mention, for example, the absence of an upper limit, the abolition of inheritance tax. We are the only country in Europe where there is no upper limit. It's not about taxing ordinary citizens, it's about taxing the ones on the very largest mountain. The cataster, used actually widely in the world - the Polish thesis that it affects ordinary citizens, is also false, because it operates on the principle of general redundancies concerning the apartment, the first house, but the huge estates are. etc., etc., etc. Well, that's something to discuss. If we are talking about the current solution, I would like to propose that we engage in the discussion. I'm sorry to have to say this to you, a distinguished colleague and colleagues from the Kukiz Club, who I really appreciate and sympathize with. It is currently being discussed, prepared draft law on the amendment of this tax. Elimination is the melody of the future, let's say, for various reasons, not just political ones, but it is worth discussing how to tax. I'm a proponent when it comes to fuel, that's right, because someone can buy a car, an excise duty to pay and doesn't drive, drives very little, for a holiday, and it's actually a big cost. How much you drive, how much you pay - that rule seems pretty close to me. The bill's effect. Will there be rejuvenation? The law itself reads, and I quote, that the difference in price between the new car and the used cord is huge. However, excise duty is an important component of this price, unfortunately it will not change this state of affairs. To put it simply, for many Poles, a new car is and will remain a luxury good, it is true, because the price is however... a huge breakthrough and this difference. And that's what you have to deal with. In this situation, the thesis about rejuvenation - although I do not really question that more people will be able to afford a car - is very debatable. I don't recommend risky financial solutions to anyone. This conclusion, seeing that it is 10 seconds to the end, I have to finish, hoping for cooperation in the future. And I think that this position, so hard, maybe sad, won't stop this cooperation. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u428	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u429	That's what I'm calling for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u430	Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the draft parliamentary law amending the excise duty Act, print No 1369. The bill provides for the elimination of excise duties on passenger cars. It aims to reduce, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, the total tax burden imposed on citizens. Unfortunately, there are legislative errors in the project and also errors can be found in the explanatory memorandum. Currently Art. 1 The Act on excise duty reads as follows: The Act sets out the taxation of excise duties, hereinafter referred to as excise duties, excise goods and passenger cars, the organisation of trade in excise goods and the marking of excise marks. The second paragraph: Excise duty is the revenue of the state budget. The project proposes a different wording of the whole article. This is what he says: The Act defines excise duty taxation, hereinafter referred to as excise duty, excise goods - i.e. there are no more cars - the organisation of trade in excise goods, as well as the marking of excise marks. It follows from the summary of the wording of the provision currently in force and proposed that the latter contains the wording of the paragraph. 1 after deleting words and passenger cars. Against this background, the question arises why from the article. 1 The rule that excise duty is the revenue of the state budget has disappeared. He's gone. Thus, the projectors feel that not only should excise duty on cars be passed on to the state budget, but no other excise duty at all. It must be stressed that this means a reduction in the revenue of the state budget by around 20%, tax revenue by around 20%. Is that what the designers wanted to exclude from the state budget at all? This is the basic error of the project. And now in the justification of the project we read that Poland is the only country using excise duty on cars. It's just not true. Taxes related to the widely understood registration and entry into service of a passenger car similar to our excise duty are found in 19 out of the 28 European Union countries. In several countries these taxes are simply called excise duties - Bulgaria, Greece, Cyprus, Poland - in others there are very similar solutions based on separate regulations. So you can't say because it's treated as an argument that only in Poland is excise duty, so it shouldn't be, because we're a freak. No, he's in 19 out of 28 countries. Removal of excise duties on cars will result in a reduction in budget revenue. The projectors point out that this cost will be fully financed by the additional resources raised by the government in connection with the announced sealing of the tax system. That is what Mr Cymanski has already said. I may be nuanced to differ from Mr Cymanski, because I will simply say this: given the experience of 2016 in sealing VAT collection, it should be pointed out that such a statement is at least risky, and it must be said that since it is a normal, typical tax in the EU countries, it is necessary to present both accurate calculations on the part of the loss of the budget and the calculations which say, of which this loss will be compensated. Ladies and gentlemen, I have focused here on these two issues, which is the most important error in the text of the bill, but there are more... There are, for example. references to the provisions that have already been deleted by the State. There's something else you can find. The same is true in the explanatory memorandum, because the explanatory memorandum was considered very important. Then it is clear that [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you can afford to...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u432	Thank you very much, sir. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u433	...free of excise duty, that can be done, but... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u434	Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for the applause. I guess it's like a hello. [[And goodbye, and hello.]] Before each election practically all groups except those extremely left-wing, anti-Citizens promise us, citizens lower taxes, lower tax-free amounts, sometimes linear tax, various forms of tax reduction, a reduction in VAT back to the previous rate 22%. And what happens after the election? Unfortunately, it turns out that all these promises were electoral promises, i.e. those promises that are not fulfilled after the election. We also promised low taxes, promised that we would fight for low contributions, tributes, excise duties and taxes, and that's what we're doing. Not only do we submit a bill on raising the tax-free amount, but we also find areas where taxes that are needed from the point of view of citizens can be reduced and defended in a substantive discussion. That's the point of excise duty on cars. The subject was invoked by the Senate project, which pointed out the huge shortcomings of the current excise duty system for cars, due to the fact that this excise duty is charged on the value of the car, i.e. this tax is not objective, there is a large area for certain abuses, perhaps to be doubted. That is why we propose the simplest solution: let us eliminate this tax. This will be really beneficial for the citizens. First of all, it will make citizens change cars for newer ones. This will have a very beneficial impact on the environment. I know that some people would like all Poles to drive new electric cars, there are plans. I'd love to, too, but I know what reality is. I still remember when my dad brought my first car from Holland, golf II, that's how he could afford it. These are the problems of millions of Poles that they drive the cars they can afford and drive because they have to get to work, school, church. Our project to eliminate excise duties will make Poles finally be able to afford greener cars, newer cars, safer cars. It's really a huge value. I would also like to focus on this economic layer. I have the impression that the state always treats the economy in such a static way, i.e. Table A, Table B, whether it agrees or not. The same was true when Leszek Miller tried to lower his excise duty on alcohol. How much was that yelling, how much it would cost to the budget. But I'm sorry, your tables don't work. There is the law of the Laffer curve, the phenomenon noticed and in the dynamic perception of the economy, economics very often a tax reduction leads to an increase in tax revenue. As Mr Sitarski pointed out here, if we eliminate excise duty on cars, it will be easier to purchase them, then Poles will finally bring cars through Gdansk and VAT instead of Hamburg. Maybe instead of registering cars in the Czech Republic they will register in Poland. You really don't notice that? These are huge pros. As was the case with the reduction of excise duty on alcohol, where the proceeds of this tax have increased enormously, just as here, if we eliminate excise duty on cars, the proceeds to the VAT budget may also increase. And it's even ridiculous here. I do not know if you know - certainly so - that motorized Poles not only pay huge taxes on fuel, which is actually justified, because it is related to the use of roads, but still, when it comes to cars, they have to pay VAT on cars, they have to pay excise duty and even VAT on this excise duty, i.e. Poles pay tax on tax. So, ladies and gentlemen, really low taxes for father and mother is the right way. Of course, it is also important to go through low expenditure so as not to create a budget gap, but very often low taxes can translate into higher revenue into the budget. So, I would like to encourage you very much, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Give this project a chance so we can talk on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u436	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u437	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Laffer, I wouldn't exaggerate with this excise duty on cars. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act in print No 1369. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the justification given by the applicants, the subject of the submission is the elimination of excise duties on passenger cars. The de facto project consists of the removal from the contents of the excise duty law of the words: passenger car. Unfortunately, the content of the justification indicates that no in-depth impact analysis has been carried out which may actually occur. There are a lot of doubts: legislative, substantive, etc. I'll focus on one of them. It is about the impact of the project on air protection. According to the applicants, the effect of excise duty elimination, among others. to used cars imported from abroad with burning engines above 2 l, will rejuvenate the car park in Poland and protect the environment more. That's what the project says. Unfortunately, the content of the justification differs from reality. How's it going in practice? As far as new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles are concerned, in 2016 their sales amounted to around 400 thousand. Pieces. 60% , up to 70% These are company purchases. As far as used, in 2016 more than 1 million were imported, i.e. 2.5 times more were imported than new registrations, and more than half of those imported, i.e. more than 0.5 million, were older than 10 years old. The conclusion is obvious: Polish people do not buy new cars in private. And it's not gonna change that by taking out 3%. excise duty. More than 3% You can profit from the sale. All you have to do is look at what's going on in the salons right now. So what will be the result of the project? The elimination of excise duties will significantly reduce the cost of purchasing cars with engines above 2 l, almost 20%, by clearly increasing the attractiveness of such vehicles. As a result, more used cars with more than 2 litres of engine capacity will be imported and more than half of them will be over 10 years old, according to previous statistics. This means more exhaust gas, more smoke, pollinated air and more pollution of the environment. This aspect has been completely ignored. That's obviously wrong. Today's regulations, on the other hand, almost 20% excise duty on large engines promote these smaller, poisonous fewer. The solution is, of course, highly imperfect, with which nothing has been done for many years, but members of the Kukiz club15 have offered nothing in return, nothing that would respond to the need to protect our air and thus - the life and health of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! Once the justification has been given, it may also be felt that applicants do not fully understand the substance of excise duty taxation. It's one of those mistakes, I'd say, the substantive ones that my previous speakers talked about earlier. The Member State considers that excise taxation of a passenger car and excise taxation of fuel are double taxation of the same goods. That's exactly the justification. This is a rather surprising conclusion, because the car and fuel for the car are two different things. There is no rational way to conclude that there is a double taxation of one commodity, whereas such wording is clearly misleading to the public. And that, in our opinion, is irresponsible. It is true that Poland is probably the only country in Europe where cars are subject to excise duty, but it is also important to know that other countries have different types of registration fees, which are dependent, for example. from the combustion standards, protecting the air, but not only. This, by the way, results in large differences in net prices, I don't know if you know, vehicles and this allows you to run a pretty good business, based on these toll differences. From the Kukiz club15, which claims to be a substantive opposition, I would expect such reliable information about other systems. Perhaps then you would also notice that this is not just a problem of excise duty, but that it is wider and needs to be thought widely on this project. High Izbo! I would like to stress that the issue of excise duty on cars is one of the areas where our country can and must be organised better. One of the responsible solutions could actually be to abandon the taxation of cars with excise duty combined with the inclusion of an ecological factor, e.g. in the registration fee. This would also make new cars more accessible. Such, but also other solutions exist, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're simple, they're acceptable...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u438	Thank you very much, sir, you have run out of time. Ms Genowef Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u439	...and it's understandable to citizens, and that's what we should do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u440	You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft of the Act amending the Act on excise duty, print no. 1369. In short, the bill abolishes excise taxation on imported passenger cars. Currently, the tax base is the value of the car, i.e. the amount from the purchase or the so-called customs value in imports, at a motor excise duty rate, of a cylinder, because for these small cars it amounts to 3,1% this value of the car, or the tax base, and for cars with more than 2 000 capacity. cm3 is a relatively large jump, because about 18.6%. The tax thus adopted, which is clear, leads to many abuses, irregularities or even tax evasion. After all, it will depend on the buyer to lower the price, it will depend on him to figure out that it is not a passenger car, and the substitute for a truck, on which a tax on means of transport is paid and there is no excise duty, and even as it has been said today, applicants also emphasize that it can be registered in other countries where there is no excise duty on such vehicles. For these very reasons, it must be said that the proposal of applicants deserves to be noticed, but in the justification you provide, you are very easy to treat this loss of revenue of the state budget in the amount of PLN 1.5 billion. My predecessors have already talked about this case. I will call it a very laconic approach to the subject, because it is a sum of PLN 1.5 billion. Moreover, the abolition of excise duties on cars will not affect, as the designers justify, the rejuvenation of the car park in Poland. In this respect, unfortunately, the age of these cars is the first place among the Member States of the European Union, because more than 80% Cars registered in Poland have more than 10 years, and this, of course, has an impact on environmental protection, on this increased emissions of carbon dioxide, as well as what to say here, also on safety, the safety of road traffic itself. I believe that the abolition of excise duties alone will not generally slow down the influx of well-earned cars from outside our country, but I also think that the project is such an introduction to the discussion on this subject. It deserves attention here - it must be said, because it is being examined at the same time - another project, from the Senate printing that entered the High House, was debated at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, which generally changes the basis of this tax, so it is not about the value of the car, and its size depends on the volume of the engine, on the level of exhaust emissions, so-called. Depreciation of cars due to their age or use of the vehicle itself. And it seems to me that, in combination, these proposals could also be subject to further work and discussion in Parliament. This proposal, this project today, is being examined further, because it is abolishing excise duty in general. There are no obstacles to compliance with European Union law, because the EU excise directive covers other energy products, alcohols, tobacco products, while cars are as if they are not subject to excise duty, hence it is possible to withdraw from excise duty, but whether it is justified to ask the essential question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u442	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, submitted in writing. And yet, you... [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to perform in person.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u443	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 1369. The project envisages the elimination of excise duties on imports of passenger cars. In the explanatory memorandum, the applicant takes the view that excise duty taxation is unnecessary, as this has only a fiscal objective and leads to excessive double taxation of passenger cars in Poland, as stated in the explanatory memorandum: first at the time of their acquisition and then during their use by subjecting the excise duty to fuel for cars. This argument cannot be accepted, since excise duty on the value of the car and on the price of fuel are in fact two different cases which cannot be combined into one economic event generating one public tribute. There is also a statement in the explanatory memorandum that Poland is the only country in the European Union that applies excise duties to imports of passenger cars. It is precisely this last statement that I would like to address more broadly because it is not true. Poland is not the only country in the European Union that applies excise duty on imports of passenger cars. It is worth referring to the analysis carried out by the Demagog Association bringing together young people whose aim is to control the statements of politicians using the fact check method. According to this analysis, in addition to Poland, the tax imposed on passenger cars is in the form of excise duty or similar in the construction of the tax in Croatia, Cyprus, Spain, Denmark, Sweden and Portugal. Indeed, in most countries of the Community there is no excise duty on imported passenger cars, but using the justification that we are the only country using excise duty on cars is not allowed. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle are in favour of setting the tax rate for the acquisition and operation of passenger cars at a low level, so that the technically efficient, unexploited, non-emissionable amount of exhaust gas does not become a luxury good for Poles. On the other hand, the decisions to shape the tax system must be taken in the responsibility for the short and long-term financial consequences for the state budget. When calculating the applicant that the elimination of excise duty on passenger cars will reduce the revenue of the budget by PLN 1.46 billion, the question should be asked how this loss can be compensated: whether the tax revenue for another reason or the cut-off of certain expenditures? As indicated by the applicant, covering this gap by means of measures obtained in connection with the sealing of VAT collection is based on a future event, so-called. I'm not sure. Despite the positive information on the current implementation of the 2017 budget, which comes from the Ministry of Finance's messages, we are not able to predict the final effects of sealing the VAT collection system at this moment. We will know the answer to this question at the beginning of next year. It will then be possible to take stock of whether the changes made in the tax system in recent months have resulted in an increase in the revenue of the state budget which can compensate for the liquidation or reduction of certain public-law danins. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarnia Circle, bearing in mind the lack of financial possibilities of the state budget and the de facto fragmentation of the solution proposed in the proposed bill, will not be able, with all due respect and great sympathy to our colleagues... [[And my friends.]] ... MPs from the Kukiz club15, support the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u444	Thank you very much. 11 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes.]] As the first Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Cymanski, despite all our sympathy and our cooperation, etc. I'm going to say this: it's not going to end, because you don't have to argue, you can be beautifully different. However, you will admit that from the moment we file this motion for rejection, our sitting here is a little unimportant. We know that this will end with this rejection. Each day costs 1300 thousand. Evil, and yet this debate, as you can see, will not convince your colleagues, so we are rather sitting here unnecessarily. But to the point. What social group is the most persecuted and exploited in Poland? I think they're drivers, at least in my opinion. Our country is pulling giant, giant taxes from drivers. The catalogue of these sources of income includes, among others, excise duty in the price of fuel, compulsory liability insurance, vehicle registration costs or purchase tax. We have other charges, of course. You still demand an excise duty as the only country in the European Union, although Mr Gaina says otherwise. Here's my question. The average age of cars in Poland is 14 years. Mr President, what drop in this indicator can we talk about by removing excise duty? How much is the average age of a car? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u446	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law calls for the complete abolition of excise duties on imported cars. The explanatory memorandum states that it does not exist in most European countries. However, the authors forgot to add that in other countries car buyers pay other taxes, higher registration fees, and often also annual taxes for the possession or use of cars. I would like to ask the Ministry of Finance when we are going to proceed with the excise duty legislation on cars, which was created some time ago and met with a huge wave of criticism. Is it true that the rule of law and justice is blocking it because of the political consequences that are expected? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u448	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that in order to avoid paying excise duties in Poland, some luxury vehicles are registered by Polish citizens abroad, e.g. in the Czech Republic? All associated fees are paid in the country of registration of the vehicle, and the Polish state does not have a broken penny for this. I have one more comment here for the opposition club representatives who played here. Their representatives, Mr Tadeusz and others, are talking about mistakes, and I believe that a mistake is what you say. You're trying to prove that a camel doesn't have a hump, but it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u450	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Drivers and car owners in Poland are definitely not the favorite group of the PiS government. Over the past year, they have become recipients of almost all bad information. First it started with an increase of more than 50% in the price of the OC insurance, which was caused by the establishment of a bank tax. To this day, this problem has not met with any government response. Later, the Energy Law was amended, setting up a 10-million-dollar deposit for entrepreneurs. As a result, prices for a litre of LPG increased significantly. Recently, thanks to the report of the Trade Inspection, we also learned that in 2016 we fueled much worse quality fuel than we did years ago. As if that were not enough, the PiS government has undertaken a mission to increase excise duty on cars imported from abroad. This is a burden that has no justification. Personally, I believe that the attempt by Prime Minister Morawiecki to increase his excise duty is revenge on the beneficiaries of the 500+ programme for not buying, according to his vision, new cars in Polish salons. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bottom line...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u452	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u453	...I consider the amendment of the excise duty Act to be correct in this point. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] It should open a debate on the situation of Polish drivers. [[What's the Polish car brand? Volkswagen or Mercedes?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u454	The question is asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister. Simple question: What is the ministry's position on this project? The loss of excise duties on cars, according to the applicants, will amount to about PLN 1.5 billion. Question: "Is this data true?" If they are true and at the same time the sentence is written in the justification that only in Poland we have excise duty on passenger cars, it may be worth trying to abolish it. So what's it like with the only case of a country that has an excise duty on cars, cars? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u456	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u457	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The provisions of this law certainly fit in, are in line with the expectations of potential buyers of new cars. I have questions for the Minister. Has the Government of Law and Justice considered abolishing excise duty on imported cars or lowering the rates of this tax? If so, what are the values? Are the financial consequences of the liquidation of this tax for the state budget known and how could tax losses be compensated? Question to applicants: Did you estimate the impact this law would have on the increase in the purchase of new cars, e.g. On a yearly basis? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u458	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Uruski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u459	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The question concerns the amendment of the Income Tax Act. What costs will the state budget bear for this? Does the Ministry of Finance have such calculations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u460	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modern Club is always in favour of tax reduction, while it is in favour of a reasonable tax reduction. Here environmental considerations are of great importance, too, because we have a lot of doubts as to whether this law will affect in the way it was founded. Therefore, let us agree that the claim that less wealthy Poles will buy new cars is misleading. Poles, because they have little money, buy long-term cars, which cost 12 and 15 thousand. zł. This duty of 3,6 is a question of several hundred zlotys, which is for the good of one or two fillings, so that's not a problem. These people, if we're going to make them buy new cars, and this kind of car costs 40 and 50 grand. zł, we should pay 20 and 30 thousand, then maybe they will actually buy them. Unfortunately, it is. It's not gonna change anything. Those who buy cars above 2 l are the people who can usually afford to buy it, that's the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u462	The question is asked by Tadeusz Cymanski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Following Mr Meysztowicz, because in my melody he said this and on the side of the statement of reasons: taxation disproportionate to the socio-economic conditions prevailing in Poland. I'm totally buying it, just the other way around. Let us consider whether excise duty should be increased. Yes. What is the point of buying a 3-, 4-, 5-litre car in Poland, which costs several hundred thousand zlotys? I'm not talking about the fact that it's going to cost the company any more. I don't know why that is. I'm talking about this case because... I don't have time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u464	It's coming, it's coming, it's [[Joy in the Chamber]] There is, but you can't see it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u465	I can't see, so I can't control myself. There really is an environmental aspect and a social aspect. Furthermore, I think the professor will agree that the price elasticity of the demand for luxury goods is very low. You buy it for 500, you buy it for 700. Why don't we take it? Help us, help each other, help Poland. Yeah, it's not a vote against the rich, it's a vote for justice. Because it's unfair to have so low taxes when you buy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] luxury goods in a country like Poland. Amen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u466	Oh, that's right. Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Anna April, club Law and Justice. [[And in the Senate, that's what they're proposing.]] [[Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u467	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The applicant spoke about the fact that Poles register cars in neighbouring countries. I have a question. Do we have to be diagnosed, or do you have this diagnosed, what percentage of car owners do this? Is it a significant percentage or maybe individual cases? Therefore, I kindly ask you to provide figures or percentages. I think the biggest problem of this bill, the biggest weakness of it is credibility. However, it is worth noting that the law is the best proof that the Kukiz club 15 is so good at judging the rule of law and justice, so good at judging this more than a year of our governments that at the moment believes very strongly that practically all Poles can afford cars from the living room. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Give us a little more time, and I'm sure you will. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u468	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've heard here about a double tax to which an excise duty on cars will lead. Well, I have such a question for applicants, for designers. Taxes similar to Polish excise duty plus registration taxes occur in 19 EU countries. In the 23 countries of the Union, however, there are taxes, which are referred to as road taxes, with us this has a slightly different title: from means of transport. I have a question: Is this double taxation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u470	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u471	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister, taking the opportunity that the Minister is. There was a draft amendment to the excise duty, which would result in the excise duty being applied to such small trucks and commercial vehicles. I wanted to ask you if you're still supporting the fact that you want to impose more burdens on entrepreneurs, more taxes, because what you're doing is some sort of hen slaughter that lays gold eggs. Companies should act in such a way that they are not burdened by the State, and the State is submitting projects which cause the costs of doing business in Poland to increase. Soon there will be no economic development, there will be no one to buy new cars, because this is how you conduct things related to, for example. tho [[♪ The bell ♪]] the stability of the legal system that entrepreneurs are afraid to invest, afraid to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u472	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is how I listen to what you say, especially the proposal made by Mr Cymanski, to increase this excise duty even further, and I wonder where your hatred and dislike of other drivers come from. I'd like to ask. Maybe it's because you're already driving good new cars and they don't want anybody else to drive such good cars? I'd like to ask you what kind of cars you drive. What kind of car do you drive, Mr Cymanski? [[It's octavia.]] The 2010 skoda superb, a relatively new car. Mr Nykiel. What kind of car do you drive? Nissan qashqai, also from 2010, a relatively new car. Well, I'm not surprised you want to be like kings on the road - the newest cars... [[Seven years old.]] ...and the rest of you pay a high excise duty. I drive my 1999 seicent very often, after my wife's grandfather. I praise him, but I'd prefer the excise duty on newer cars to be lower so I can get myself... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[If you buy a Ferrari.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u474	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] No, no, we're not gonna answer any stupid questions. [[Corrigendum.]] No, I disagree. It's a statement that doesn't deserve to be corrected. Thank you very much, sir. The answer will be, I hope, briefly, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u475	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will take advantage of the encouragement of your marshal to answer the questions asked very quickly and briefly. So maybe I'll start my speech with this part of the question tour. When are we going to proceed with the Senate bill? That's when the Seniors' Convention decides she's on the agenda. We're ready to talk about it. A question about cars registered abroad. If someone uses a car, conducts business activity in Poland, lives here, should have a car registered in Poland. These are EU rules. I don't think it's a widespread phenomenon if someone's using them. We do not have such research and statistical data. Asking the government's position on this Kukiz club project. The government has not prepared a position on this project at this moment. Are we considering removing excise duty? We're not considering it. It would be irresponsible at this stage, definitely irresponsible. It's a question of cost for the budget. Total excise revenue for the current year is planned at 69 billion. In the last 11 months of 2016 we obtained 2.1 billion from excise duties. So the data given in the explanatory memorandum of your project is highly inadequate to the reality, because they include a loss for the state budget of 1.46 billion. I don't know where that money came from. I propose that it be amended in this explanatory memorandum. Asking about the senate design and treatment of commercial vehicles up to 3.5 t. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not implore the public with suspicions of what the regulation that the Sejm has not yet adopted will look like. Each earlier stage is simply a stage of forming discussion. I would ask you not to share your concern and fear with our fellow citizens, because decisions in this area - whatever they are - will be balanced, reasonable and responsible. I guarantee that. But you can ask and who asks doesn't go astray. If the marshal wants to extend my time again, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u476	I'd hate to. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: No? I'm saying I don't like it. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: The excise duty for vehicles up to 2 l is only 3.1%. Above is actually higher, but not everyone has to drive a car they wouldn't want to pay so high, 18.6% - if for all buyers of larger vehicles this is a high excise duty - excise duty. I have a number of other information here. It is true that Professor Nykiel's claim that you wanted to eliminate excise revenue from the revenue stream of the state budget - art. 1 paragraph Two that's been crossed out. So this is another error in this justification. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not the only country with an excise duty. The fact is that the Polish state is very responsible and comfortable with vehicle owners, because they pay this excise duty once, and then they are excluded from this annual burden, which is very stressful and is the reason why many of the citizens of these countries, who have just decided not to impose one-off excise duties on the acquisition of vehicles... They pay it a year and in this way they have to get rid of these vehicles quite quickly. Of course, this stimulates the purchase of new vehicles. These are the countries that have their own car factories and often neighbouring countries, while Poland has been eliminated from this market, as we know, quite a long time ago. So this construction seems appropriate here. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you so much for your time. I understand that the Member has already said everything... [[I would like to answer your questions again.]] Well, that's short, sir. You have to respect the time. All of us. You're still waiting for the statements. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u477	Thank you, Marshal. I will try to respond to suggestions and questions as quickly as possible and briefly. We'll start by saying thank you. So thank you, Minister, for your support here as well. One thing has to be said - I'll say it like it's coming from the end. While the citizens of other countries are burdened with a little bit of other fiscal tributes, one thing needs to be pointed out. They have an average income of 2 000, but the euro. They simply can afford it, citizens of other countries. Here was the question of a possible reduction in the age of the vehicle with a possible reduction in excise duty, and this is not expected to happen - around 10 and 9 years could lead to this at these higher capacity ceilings. And now is it true that registration is made abroad? Of course it is done: Slovakia, Czech Republic, many vehicles are registered there. This also leads to registration of companies abroad. Poles register companies in the Czech Republic, even there are companies specializing in the registration of companies and, by the way, registration of new vehicles in the Czech Republic. There are plenty of examples. The Member of the Law and Justice has suggested raising excise duty, for me it is a total puriazum. You can't hate people that much for working and getting rich. The more rich people in Poland and rich Polish citizens, the greater the prosperity of the whole. [[Five-litre, four-litre.]] That's the way to approach it. There was a question of double taxation. Of course it's double. If someone were to read into it, they would see that excise duty is further entangled. What else do you call it if it's not double taxation? The purchased car is double-taxed, older or new - it is double-taxed. As for the deletion, of course, I agree that not everything may be perfect here, but this is a reason to refer this project at least to the finance committee to draw it up. It is possible to discuss, open discussion is most appropriate. Here I will refer to the Senate project, print no.1234, which was mentioned. It was under the custody of the former Deputy Minister and there were, as I recall, 32 excise rates times 18 depreciation coefficients times five categories. Who's gonna figure this out? Another government office building would have to be built so that there would be a sufficient number of officials capable of assessing this situation. That's right, Minister, isn't it? You can read it there, but we're not talking about the senate project. What is to be expected here? It is to be expected that the power of evil on one, that I heard today. I just feel a little lonely in the fight here, but what can I do for you? Is there a shortage, or is there no such burden throughout the Union? Well, there are no such burdens, perhaps they are in a different form, Euro standards, etc. And I told you what the average wage there is, in euros. Legislative errors - as I say, to the committee. As for the environment, here was the charge of a Member of the Modern, unfortunately already... and, of course, you are an Member, so I am referring. It should be noted that the actual environmental impact, so to speak, of dust generates the most lack of electricity generation system, district heating system in Poland, and passenger vehicles represent a share of 3% in relation to the whole problem of harmfulness. This should also be noted here. Now, everyone here is disappearing, bent over the problem of billion zlotys or 2.1 billion, as the Minister explained, but it is important to note that the party subsidies have also been over billion zlotys for some time, and that nobody is falling apart, no one has a problem with that, right? As for my colleagues in the Vistula, I'm afraid I no longer have colleagues in the Vistula because of what they said about us. And now: I believe and will defend this position that it is necessary to relieve the fiscal burden on citizens. I consider excise duty to be an unjustified fiscal burden on the citizen. I feel like a guardian of my country, my country, Poland. And it's like I'm watching this country and these citizens, despite all the odds. Mr Krasicki very much likes Krasicki's fairy tales, so I will refer at this moment to Krasicki's fairy tale for this debate. Ignacy Krasicki wrote: The dog barked at the thief, worked hard all night; They beat him the next day to wake you up. He slept well the other night, the thief did not wait; This house was stolen; the dog was beaten for not barking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, a little correction, one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u478	No... One sentence. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u479	One sentence. Everything's being recorded and don't warp the point. I said a very precise question about purchasing very luxurious, many hundreds of thousands of cars. And that's all I said. And don't tell me it was a hit on the drivers and I envy somebody. I weigh the words. I'm too old to do that kind of thing from that bleacher. And I appeal: fair play. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u480	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u481	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The list of excise goods set out in the excise duty directive, i.e. products which Member States are required to subject to excise duty, does not mention passenger cars. Is it true that Poland is the only country in the European Union that applies excise duties on imports of passenger cars? As there is an excise duty on cars in Poland, do Poles register cars abroad? What's the scale of the phenomenon? What would be the financial impact on the state budget if this law were adopted?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u482	Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting... I apologize. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. That's where we left off... We're not done? We have completed the agenda items scheduled for 22 March. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. There's nine of them. Anyone else want to make a statement? No one's checking in. The list of Members who have been made to the statements is closed. Please, as the first Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u483	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My statement today is addressed to the Minister of Health and I would like to dedicate it to the problems that teachers face when their health is eligible for sanatorium treatment. The current rules do not regulate this area sufficiently so that teachers can easily benefit from this form of treatment. In order to receive sanatorium treatment, you must be insured and have a referral. If the curator is applying for a trip with the National Health Fund and is waiting for the date of departure to the sanatorium for a medical stay lasting 21 days, he must use his holiday for that period. However, teachers have pre-established leave periods and may not take leave during the school year. The only deadline is vacation months. In the current provisions of the National Health Fund, it is not possible to adjust the period of treatment to the holiday potential of insured teachers. In this case, the National Health Fund maintains that there is no reason to postpone the treatment period to the requested holiday period because teachers are not privileged groups. It often happens that waiting after 2 years in line for a period of sanatorium treatment, they cannot use it because they cannot have it shifted on holiday time. Therefore, from this point of view, I call on the Minister of Health to take a detailed look at this situation and to introduce appropriate legislation that will bridge the gaps in the legislation and allow teachers, like other occupational groups, to benefit from sanatorium treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u484	Thank you very much, Madam President. The statement will now be made by Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! An infantile part of the Polish political scene, self-defining as opposition a total argument about leadership between Richard Petru and Grzegorz Schetin in intellectual and substantive terms, resembles a horse's conversation with a drawbar. The specific allocation of the role in this particular case makes no difference. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u486	Thank you very much, sir. The statement is now made by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club. This is where I recommend your predecessor's briefness.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It was understood to define free press or, more broadly, social media, or media, as the fourth power - because of the power of influence and influence on society. One of the most important tasks of the press is its control function. By formulating critical judgements, journalists contribute to the proper functioning of state institutions. Free movement of information and freedom of the press are the foundation of a democratic state. I have seen the strength of the press myself in the past, when a number of sentences about a sensitive subject were published in the local magazine that I was editing, and it caused a long storm and serious consequences in the local community. So what firepower do the titles of tens or hundreds of thousands of copies have? Therefore, I was surprised and anxious to receive reports from recent days about the instructions of the head of Ringier Axel Springer, who came to public opinion, for those working in the company and Polish journalists who are subject to it. This de facto dictates one narration that they should use in this case. in relation to the European Union and criticism of the Polish government. Journalists in accordance with the principles of media ethics should be guided in general, among others. The principles of truth, objectivity, freedom, responsibility, separation of information from comment, but it is, of course, the theory and behaviour of the media, especially in recent times, indicates that they can become a propaganda tube calling almost for a coup d'état. That is why the words of the head of Ringier Axel Springer pointing to crossing - it would seem - the limit limits should, in my opinion, boost the discussion about the ownership shape of the press market in Poland, and this is shaping shockingly. Foreign-capital entities own almost 140 magazines, when at that time Polish - only forty-several titles, and in the quantity of copies sold, this represents less than 25% the market. It is dominated by entities with German capital, such as the Bauer publishing house, the aforementioned Ringier Axel Springer is a German-Swiss company and the Polish Press controlling more than 60% the market. Worse still, in Poland relatively few citizens, readers are aware that under Polish titles there are German owners. This situation in many other countries would be defined as pathological or even unacceptable. It is enough to mention France, where there are statutory restrictions and the share of foreign capital cannot exceed 20% in the media. This is unthinkable in Germany itself. In 2005, the attempt to take over the daily Berner Zeitung by capital from outside Germany ended in a total disaster - it was due to protests from various backgrounds: journalists, politicians, representatives of the world of culture and art, because it was assessed as a danger of influencing the views of the German public. So in other countries, in Western, civilised Europe, it has long been understood that the media is too important an area that affects the views and attitudes of citizens to give it to others uncritically. Let this awareness begin to dominate Poland as well. Let such words as the instructions of Ringier Axel Springer quoted at the outset become a catalyst for not discussion, because it has been going on for years, but concrete legal changes that will restore normality in the press market and wider media market in Poland. Without this, we will often be surprised by extraordinary information, comments, which will certainly not be in the spirit of our Polish national interest and will make it difficult, and maybe even prevent us from preserving our identity, and in moments of importance may be solstices, important for the functioning of the state until it is difficult to imagine the loyalty of the media towards our interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u488	Thank you. The statement will be made by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the nearest Saturday, 25 March 2017 on the feast of the Lord's Annunciation in the Cathedral basilica in Sosnowiec, the inauguration of the 25th anniversary of the pine diocese will take place. At Holy Mass. at 3 p.m. 10.30 we will thank God for the past years of our diocese. The pinewood diocese was established on March 25, 1992 by the Holy Father John Paul II bulla.Totus Tuus Poloniae populus. The capital of the newly created diocese was Sosnowiec, the cathedral of the pine church of St. The Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary. The pine diocese was included in the Częstochowa metropolis. The bishop of the pine diocese was appointed the former Provincial Inspector of the Salesian province of Wrocław. Dr. Adam Śmigielski, while the appointments for bishops of the auxiliary diocese were given to Fr. Tadeusz Pieronek and Fr. Bishop Piotr Skucha. The patrons of the pine diocese were St. Brother Albert Chmielowski and St. Rafał Kalinowski. The diocese of pinenovice included the following villages and decanates located in their territory: from the former diocese of Częstochowa - Będzin, Czeladź, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Łaza, Sączów, Sosnowiec and Siewierz, from the diocese of Kielce - Olkus, Pilica and Sułoszów, and from the diocese of Krakow - my home town of Jaworzno. At the time of the establishment of the pine diocese, 152 parishes were located on its territory, and the number of parishes increased to 162 by 2010. In terms of ecclesiastical history, the lands that now form the pine diocese have a very long and rich common history. The area of today's diocese from the time of the baptism of the Polish state until the beginning of the 19th century belonged to the diocese of Krakow. In the western part of today's diocese from the Middle Ages to the end of the 18th century, there was a Siewers' dukeship owned by the bishops of Cracow. There are also many other facts about the strong relationships of today's pine diocese with Cracow. The professors of the Krakow Academy served as parish priests in the parish of St. Andrzej the Apostle in Olkus, and for a very short time the priest of the Olkus parish was the later Saint - John of Kęt. Bishop Adam Śmigielski mentioned three priorities of his pastoral ministry in the diocese, while three significant and demanding areas of pastoral work and efforts of the entire pine church. They were: youth ministry, Caritas diocesan and spiritual seminary. In carrying out the first of these tasks, the bishop created a separate youth paper in the diocesan curia, and also appointed the priests responsible for this pastoral ministry. On 11 June 1992, Fr. Bishop Adam Śmigielski founded the Caritas Diocese of Sosnowiec, based in Sosnowiec. Another institution whose functioning is extremely important for every diocese is a seminary. The decree on the emerging of the pine church seminary in Krakow was issued by Bishop Śmigielski on 4 June 1992. Among the various pastoral initiatives undertaken in the area of the Diocese of Sosnowiec, there is a special distinction among the Betlejem, or Christian Community House for the Homeless in my home town of Jaworzno, whose creator and animator is Fr. Mirosław Tosha. This house offers a community and help to homeless people who, in order to live in it, have to take up work and break up their addictions. High Izbo! On 4 February 2009, Fr. Grzegorz Kaszak. On 28 March 2009, he ingressed the pine cathedral during which he was ordained by the bishop. His mission of pastoral ministry in the Diocese of Sosnowiec Bishop Cashak continues to this day. High Izbo! From this point on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the pine diocese, I would like to place on the hands of Bishop Grzegorz Kaszak's Excellency the best wishes of all priests, including especially the parish priest from my family parish. God's Mercy in Jaworzno Fr. Stanisław Janick, and all the faithful of the pine diocese. I would wish the faithful of our diocese and ourselves to walk toward Christ, and to go toward Him and look at Him, that we should preach Him to others. I wish the entire diocesan community that we could find Christ in our lives - in the second man, in the life of our local Church, in the sacraments - and they were able to share him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u490	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel will now make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Justice, under the direction of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, is working on draft amendments to the Law on the System of General Courts and the Act on the National Council of Courts. The amendment of the law on the system of common courts assumes, among other things, that the Minister of Justice, not the Presidents of the courts, will be the head of the directors who manage the finances of the courts. In addition, the selection of directors in the competitions was discontinued. On the other hand, the amendments to the Act on the National Courts provide for the formation of two chambers in the National Courts and the expiry of the term of office of its members of judges - their successors would be elected by the Sejm. All changes undertaken by the government and the Ministry of Justice are aimed at reducing the pathology that we are dealing with in Polish judiciary. It is not surprising, therefore, that the vast majority of the population fully supports judicial reform. I will mention just a few examples of the scandalous actions of judges, even crimes committed by them, in recent times. A shocking lack of respect for ordinary Poles and a complete detachment from reality is the best term for the appalling words of the President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf, who said that 10,000. zł for a judge is not a very excessive salary, for which one can only live well in the province. In turn, Judge Maria Bradtke of the Tri-City, who ruled in a loud trial concerning President Sopot, dismissed most of his corruption charges after only 3 years of work, officially due to poor health, retired. He is only 37 years old and receives over 6,000 every month. zł, the sum of which the ordinary pensioner can only dream. Next shocking fact is equivalent to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal for unused leave. For 114 days of unused leave, taxpayers paid Mr Rzepliński, former CEO, an amount of about 150,000. zł. Recently, the media reported theft of memory carriers worth about 2,000. zł in one of the electronic shops, which was to be done by a judge of the Court of Appeal in Wrocław. I can refer to the case of Judge Ryszard Milewski, who on the phone provided classified information to the alleged employee of the law firm of Prime Minister Tusk, or a loud corruption case in the Krakow appeal court, where the judge is involved in a criminal offence consisting of embezzling to the detriment of the court, i.e. taxpayers, more than 17 million PLN. Unfortunately, the scandalous examples of the judges I mentioned above also find their defenders in the members of the Civic Platform, which is not surprising when only a few bearing names of the leading activists of this party are traced. Some of them are former PZPR activists, for whom pathological systems are not a problem, while for their main purpose they chose to attack all those who want to end this shameful activity. Andrzej Rzepliński, elected judge of the Constitutional Tribunal with the support of the Civic Platform, the candidate of the PO for the post of ombudsman in 2005 was a member of the PZPR until 1981. In the late 1970s he was the second secretary of the PZPR's primary party organisation at the Institute of Social Prevention and Rehabilitation of the University of Warsaw. Zbigniew Ćwiakalski, Minister of Justice and Prosecutor General of the Government of Donald Tusk, a member of the PZPR in 1972. According to the IPN documents, he was registered as a candidate for a secret collaborator of the SB in 1985. The above mentioned cases of pathological behaviour of judges and their defenders are only the tip of the iceberg, against which the Government of Law and Justice must face. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u492	Thank you very much, sir. The statement will be made by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the beginning of the year, there has been a large cutting of trees throughout Poland. This is due to the adoption by Members of Law and Justice of a law allowing unlimited cutting of trees from their own property. Previous regulations required permission from the municipality, i.e. from the environmental department. There are no restrictions today. We are witnessing daily cuttings of hundreds of trees throughout Poland. Trees are the common good of all citizens. We've been hearing about smog all winter. Without reducing carbon dioxide emissions, only vegetation can help us fight smog. For some time now, Mr Kaczyński has been giving us the fact that the law that allows a properly unlimited cut-off of trees requires changes and that this law is a mistake. But why haven't the PiS Members been able to draft a bill for weeks? If PiS really cared, one day. You were able to make a bill. Why was the Civic Platform project rejected implementing the rules that were in force prior to the implementation of the so-called "Citizen Platform." lex Szysko, what would make a tree clipping control? The Minister of the Environment should take care of the resources of nature, and organises the slaughter of animals and trees. The balance of the work of Minister Szyszko after 17 months is almost 2 million butchered trees, naked parks and squares. We'll be making up for those losses for future generations. Looking at the scale of the clipping of trees that took place in Poland, I fear that someone had a very big interest in adopting these harmful regulations. What about developers? Do you know - this is a matter that particularly concerns me - that Minister Szyszko took part in the hunt for pheasants released directly from the cage? This kind of behavior is not acceptable to anyone, especially the Minister for the Environment. It's hard to call it hunting. It was just a bloodbath. It's a mentality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u494	The statement is made by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 130 years ago, a young man named Józef Piłsudski came to a certain apartment in Vilnius on March 22, and arrested a little over 19 - year - old man named Józef Piłsudski. It was an event that basically followed what happened three weeks ago when the terrorist faction Narodnaja Wola carried out the assassination attempt on Alexander. III. In a special way, this event brought together the fate of the three families, or actually the representatives of the three families. As a result, Alexander III, who was not killed in the assassination attempt because he was practically not protected by the intervention, was killed by another assassination 6 years later due to kidney damage. As a result of long-term problems related to this, he died in 1894 at, nomen omen, Crimea. On the other hand, Ulianov's younger brother, known in history as Lenin, led the Soviets to a revolution that cost hundreds of millions of lives all over the world, and the effect of his actions until today we feel even here in Poland, even in this room. As far as Piłsudski is concerned, for a little over a 19-year-old boy, it was a moment that weighed on his fate, the path of life. The consequence was what he did for Poland, and what we will celebrate in two years' time in the century of independence. Long live Poland! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u496	Thank you. The statement is made by Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish government undertook to rebuild Poland's strength and sovereignty. This sovereignty, however, is difficult to talk about when the fourth power, which many today unreasonably speak of as being the first or superior power, remains in foreign hands. We're talking about the media, of course. Of the 10 important nationwide journals, two belong to German companies, including the largest, "Facts," Springer, and "Puls Biznesu" to the Swedish consortium. For comparison, in Germany none of the major titles has a foreign owner. The owners of the two most frequently listened radio stations in Poland are Germany and France, and the five largest news portals are Germany, Spain and the USA. In the case of regional press, almost all titles belong to one German company Verlagsgruppe Passau. Also almost all color magazines have owners from outside Poland. It is worth mentioning that after the German publishing company took over the regional press, its sales dropped, so it is difficult to say that the only motivation to buy newspapers was business motivation. Can you imagine that the programming lines of these editorial offices would be contrary to German policy? I don't think so. One example of the fact that titles appearing in Poland are relays of German politics is immigration. It's hard, for example. find in the press belonging to Passauer or Springer criticism of immigration policy pushed by Angela Merkel. Today we still have the right to accumulate in one hand a huge amount of newspapers, radio and television stations, as well as Internet portals, which means gathering enormous power in a few hands, in the hands of non-Polish, and in hands not subject to any social control. It is this power that values attitudes, gives judgments, promotes the way of life of cosmopolitan, easy and pleasant, uninterested in the fate of the country. Therefore, it is so important for the sovereignty of Poland that the demonopoliation and recolonization of the media is so important. Media reform in Poland began and so far ended with the establishment of national media. I believe that it is important to revise the rules that now allow for the concentration of many media in a single publication, in addition to foreign media. This is a denial of media pluralism, as well as a threat to the sovereignty of our homeland. We should take action towards the introduction of Polish capital into the media market in order to achieve a balance in such a sensitive sphere as the space of public information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u498	Thank you. You will now make a statement to Marshal Cornel Morawiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen! I ask you to listen to this appeal: Science for Development. I have talked to my son Matthew many times about the importance of science in the Responsible Development Strategy. There will be no breakage of the medium development trap without innovation and modern technologies created by our scientists and Polish capital. Of course, it is necessary to ensure that science is properly financed, but this is not sufficient. It is equally important to base science on values such as truth, reliability and transparency. The pursuit of truth is the imperative of every scientist. Not career, and cognitive passion is the engine of discoveries and inventions. Transparency can be viewed as a certain dimension of truth and therefore deserves a special place in the hierarchy of values. Surely there are institutes and universities that maintain high moral and scientific standards. Unfortunately, however, there are also those where brave ideas and young, talented scientists have no chance of developing. Undisclosed and informal links from the times of the Polish People's Republic are still alive there. Therefore, I ask your scientists as the elite of our country to support the idea of "Science for Development," to support the demands necessary for the modernisation of the country. I appeal for: firstly, the absolute submission of science to the search for truth according to the sentiment of the American Plato, the sed magis amica veritas, and thus the promotion of attitudes aimed at maintaining high standards of research, the ravage of all private manifestations in science. Secondly, maintaining the highest ethical standards in scientific and teaching work. Eliminating people who have violated ethical principles in science or didactics. Thirdly, based scientific institutions on full transparency. The transparency of scientific workers has a fundamental impact on their independence and decisions. In particular, this concerns the disclosure of cooperation with communist services and any group, business and family links. Fourthly, supporting projects with the greatest scientific and practical potential. The optimal use of funding for science requires support for areas that offer the best chances of achieving scientific and implementation success. Fifthly, supporting the most talented young researchers. Removing barriers to employment and promoting talent by eliminating informal links arising from the previously identified risks. I have a deep hope that the scientific community will do everything to promote the idea of science for development through efforts to make the academic community transparent, honest and guided by the love of truth. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u500	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u501	Celebration giving the flag to the Beekeeper's Wheels in Beaver. March 12th this year. I had the honour to attend the celebration of dedication and the banning of the Beekeeper's Wheels in Beaver. The amount of work put into the preparation and implementation of this celebration, which is important for the bee brothers as well as for the local community, deserves respect and recognition. Here I would especially like to thank and congratulate the President of the Beekeepers' Circle in Bobrniki Dariusz Domagalski and the President of the Regional Beekeepers' Union of Kujawsko-Dobrzyńska in Włocławek Janusz Lambarski. The banner has a symbolic meaning and a special meaning. It is around him that there is a sense of community and awareness and memory of the fact that the work of a beekeeper is not only a profession, but also a passion that never retires. Beekeeping is primarily passion - the beekeeper loves bees, he must have a lot of knowledge, but also intuition. Today, it is extremely important and valuable to cultivate this beautiful and noble profession for future generations and for the general public. The benefits of bartering are invaluable. Sacrifice, involvement of beekeepers, the fight against adversity and great responsibility for years have aroused my admiration and appreciation. Dear beekeepers, you are needed by people and nature. Only your work and our social awareness and responsibility will allow us to retain the precious good that bees are, giving the Bible's fruitage of their work to man. As a daughter of a beekeeper and member of the Parliamentary Group for I wish the beekeeper brothers that your noble service brings much satisfaction and success, and that the labors of work are rewarded with good health, joy and serenity. By ensuring my openness to help, I wish you all the best. God bless the bee brothers!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u502	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today marks the 60th anniversary of Jack Kaczmarski's birth, who was born on 22 March 1957 in Warsaw. He attended a renowned Warsaw high school - XV High School of General Education. Narciszy Żmichowska. Then in 1980 he graduated from Polish Studies at the University of Warsaw, writing a paper from the literature of enlightenment. In parallel with his studies, Kaczmarski began his music career. The author of "Murów" was associated with Kabaret Pod Egida Jan Pietrzak. In 1979. Kaczmarski received the award at the Student Song Festival in Krakow for his song At the time of the introduction of martial law in Poland, on 13 December 1981, Kaczmarski stayed in France on a concert tour. He didn't decide to go back to the country. Later, he lived mainly from performances, and some of the profits were devoted to supporting the underground Solidarity. In 1984 he started working for Radio Free Europe in Munich. He worked there until 1994, when the Polish radio section was liquidated. In 1995, he settled in Australia, where he was diagnosed with advanced esophageal cancer in March 2002. Kaczmarski decided on expensive, complicated therapy in Austria, hoping to avoid surgery permanently damaging his vocal cords. Numerous concerts were organized with fundraisers. Unfortunately, he failed - despite promising initial effects after 2 years of fighting Kaczmarski's disease, he died in one of Gdańsk hospitals on 10 April 2010. Jacek Kaczmarski appeared in Polish post-war culture as the author of lyrics and song composer. Despite the great popularity of his work, this choice of species has not yet become an object of more extensive literary analysis. The situation has changed in recent years, as shown by numerous works devoted to the author. So it is hoped that Kaczmarski's place in literature will eventually be properly recognized.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-03-22-sejm-38-1.u503	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 23 March 2017, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 27]]
