ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u1	Welcome to the senators very cordially. Resume session. Please take your seats. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 479 and the report of the Commission in print No 479 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It is quite important law because the situation on the labour market is changing and, on the one hand, it would like to safeguard the needs of employers who, on the unpredictable often labour market, need to have the opportunity to employ workers for a short period of time and in substitution and, on the other hand, to take into account the interests of the workers themselves. The aim is to ensure that this possibility does not constitute unequal competition in the labour market and the area of abuse. The Social Dialogue Council, which tried to develop compromise proposals for legislative changes, was not always on the employment market for temporary workers. They can be divided into 3 groups: amendments to the Employment Act 2003 itself, amendments to the Labour Code and amendments to the Employment Promotion Act and to the institutions of the labour market. Let me briefly discuss the main changes contained in this law that we discussed at the committee meeting. First of all, we know from many reports and audit results that dishonest employers have tried to break the rules on the prohibition of the employment of temporary workers in place of permanent workers. Although the current provisions of the Art. Point 8 (3) said that a temporary worker must not be employed at the post where the temporary worker was employed during the last 3 months preceding the expected starting date of the temporary employment. and the termination of the employment relationship was not due to reasons relating to the worker However, this prohibition was quite often observed. And that's why... I'm sorry, I didn't see the president. Of course, I welcome him, too. It is proposed to amend this article so that the temporary worker can be entrusted with the same kind of work as the work carried out by the employee of the user's employer, with whom the employment relationship has been resolved in the last 3 months for reasons not relating to employees. So it's not a position, it's a job of the same kind, because some maneuvers have been tried here; they've changed the type of position and they've already been able to hire. That's not gonna happen now. In addition, they will not be able to be entrusted with the work requiring the protection worker to be armed with firearms and combat weapons. We know that surveillance services are a great field of work for temporary workers. We've picked it up many times. I'm looking at senators who worked with me in committee. There is abuse, excessive requirements, among others. concerning the fact that these workers had to guard different facilities with firearms. This will now be explicitly prohibited. The third change is coming to this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] ...to increase transparency in this triple relationship. In the case of normal, so to speak, standard employment is a direct relationship, with a direct contract between an employee and an employer, and here in the middle is a temporary employment agency. Of course, it is important that there is as much transparency as possible in terms of conditions that have a significant impact, for example. for the remuneration of the agency's staff. It will therefore be possible for the agency to request temporary employment to provide the content of internal remuneration regulations in force u, let's call it, the target employer, i.e. the user's employer. So far, if an agency employee wanted to find out what these final conditions really were and why he was making so much and so much money, it was not possible. There was no transparency because there was no obligation to disclose this data. An amendment was also proposed, which concerns the Labour and Vacation Code. This was, however, if I understood the statements at the committee meeting correctly, the field of major clash, the trade fair between trade unions and employers' representatives. Trade unions were in favour of adopting the provisions of the Article Labour Code in the field of leave and equivalent leave. 178 §3, i.e. to apply at least a month's period of referral for temporary work which would already be entitled to leave benefits. The employers wanted a three-month period. Finally, a 2-month period was proposed. Another obligation, which has been introduced, is related to what often signalled by the employment protection services, including the State Labour Inspection. Namely, there was no obligation to keep records of temporary workers on the basis of employment contracts and civil law contracts containing data on the commencement and termination of such work. Because these provisions I'll be talking about it in a minute. They temporarily limit the possibility of hiring a worker, there have been difficulties in verifying, not only those who are employees employed by temporary employment agencies, but also this period. The introduction of this register will certainly facilitate the screening of the employment market for temporary workers. Another amendment to the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers concerns the obligation to pay the equivalent for unused leave where the parties decide to use this leave in the following period. So far, the rules have been very rigid, and now this holiday or equivalent will also be able to be consumed in the next period of employment. The Agency for Temporary Work, as amended, will be able to direct the employee to perform temporary work for the benefit of the user's employer for a maximum period of 18 months for a period of 36 consecutive months. These are provisions similar to those relating to the performance of temporary work under civil law agreements. I think this codification is a very good negotiated solution. In order to discipline employers, criminalising offences concerning the non-compliance with the rights of temporary workers have been introduced. They will be punishable by fine from PLN 1 000 to PLN 30,000. The next amendment concerns the Labour Code and clarifies that, in the event of an extension of the employment contract until the date of birth, the employment limits on the basis of fixed-term employment contracts referred to in Article will not apply. 251 §1 of the Labour Code. Several amendments concern the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. First of all, the novel introduces 2 types of employment agencies, i.e. agencies providing employment services, personal advice and professional guidance, and the second type of temporary employment services. The Act also introduces an obligation to certify employment mediation services for the directing of foreign workers to entities operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland, and in this case the Agency will be able to direct foreigners to employment or other work exclusively directly to entities operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The last amendment concerns the obligation to conclude a written employment contract with these foreign workers and to provide a written translation of the contract into a language that is understandable to the worker. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this is a compromise effect. There are, on the one hand, proposals for which employee representation has been requested and which strengthen transparency, clearly set employment deadlines and increase penalisation, and, on the other hand, a little loosening of what employers have requested to loosen, e.g. as regards leave and equivalent for leave. The Commission welcomed the outcome of the compromise in the Social Dialogue Council, this proposal, and requested the adoption of a law without amendment, which I ask of you as well. Of course, at the meeting of our committee there were representatives of trade unions as well as representatives of employers. The latter raised two points. The first one concerned pregnant workers, and this is what I have already mentioned. In order to ensure that there is a 3-month period of directing to work that entitles pregnant workers to enjoy the same rights as other establishments in the event of disclosure of this pregnancy. The employers wanted it to be a three-month period. The second issue raised concerned the date of entry into force of the Act. According to employers, the proposed deadline is too close because most systems are made in electronic form today. This deadline of 1 June was requested to be postponed to 1 July 2017, but such amendments were not tabled at the committee meeting. Once again on behalf of the committee, I ask for this bill to be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. They'll be asking you a question because I'm about to turn you over to the senators, but now I'd like to welcome the guests who are at the Senate meeting today. Minister Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, together with his colleagues, is with us. Hello. I would also like to welcome Mr Piotr Duda, President of the National Commission of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Now, ladies and gentlemen, questions for the Senator of the rapporteur. Let me remind you that the questions are raised from the site and should last no longer than a minute. I know that's the question you want to ask Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. In the opinion of the Legislative Office, there was such a remark that first of all attention should be paid to the inadequacy of the title of the Act itself, as it was subject to the scope of the Act of Non-Temporary Workers. Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? And is that really true?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u5	The opinion was presented, but none of the senators received this comment in the form of a proposal for an amendment. In general, the content and scope of this law would not be affected by the amendment of its title, and perhaps would delay the entry into force of the long-awaited changes. At least I was motivated by such a motive not to propose such a change.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u6	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the newly added article. Paragraph 7 2, which allows the directing to temporary work under a contract of civil law of non-workers. The question is, is this the sanctioning of the current practice, or is it enabling a new path of employment? And is it a softening of this law in the sense that... [[It's already been done.]] Is there gonna be more opportunities to direct trash deals or to tighten them up? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u8	It seems to me that I need to start with an expression like that, because I'm not that specialized in this field. • that it has already been possible to employ for a civil contract. It's not anything new, it's one of the forms of employment that was allowed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u9	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? No. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Will there be any questions?]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: If not, then I'm going.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Minister wants to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Let me speak because the bill is very important. That is what the chairman, the rapporteur of the committee, was talking about. First of all, it regulates a very important market, which is the employment of workers by employment agencies or temporary agency in particular in recent years, at a time when employment has become a major problem in terms of employment relations. I can only give such an example that there are now more than 6 000 employment agencies in Poland, while in European countries... For example, there are over 1,000 such agencies in Germany. So we see how much this market has grown, but we also see many pathologies. If we looked at the cases controlled by the State Labour Inspection, we would see that almost 80% of the checks showed irregularities in the functioning of the employment agencies and temporary employment agencies. Examples of such situations can be given here, when employees were employed by these agencies for up to 10 years only because the provisions of the Law could be used. Therefore, for many months there have been discussions with the social partners, with the union and with the employers' side, in order to seal this system somehow, but also civilise it so that temporary work is actually temporary work if it is needed and not to be applied in cases like this is happening today. This is due to the changes that have been made. For most cases, there has been an agreement between the social partners. I will explain here one point that Senator Augustine spoke about regarding the protection of pregnant women in the event of employment by temporary employment agencies. There was no such protection at the moment. Let me remind you that in the article. 177 of the Labour Code is the protection of pregnant women, a woman acquires such protection after a period of 3 months. We have applied a similar solution, although not entirely, because we have introduced a probationary period in the case of employment by a temporary employment agency. This trial period shall be 2 months. So a woman has to be employed for two months so that she can acquire the right to a protective period, as in the case of the Labour Code. Here was actually a dispute, the employer's side wanted to extend this trial period, we simply did not want to accept it because it had to be protection, not illusory protection. This is one topic that was raised in the work. The second issue, which also sounded here, was related to the period of entry into force, with the deadline of 1 June. Practically for a year and a half these talks have been going on, so that there is no risk that temporary employment agencies will not be prepared to make changes. This subject has already been discussed and discussed on several occasions. So that we maintain this deadline on 1 June, all the more so because there is a guideline of the Council of Ministers to make such significant changes either by 1 June or by 1 January. Most of the changes discussed here come into force on 1 June. Changes in checking the reliability of the employment agencies This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following This verification will be carried out by marshal offices through the Social Insurance Institution, so that we can be sure that labour agencies, for example. they pay their salaries, pay their insurance premiums. There are major problems with this too, including situations where agencies were created, disappeared, and workers were left without means to live, without pay. This also concerns issues related to the payment of ZUS contributions. So I think that these changes that we are making, and I think that the Senate, as has already been said in the report, will accept this without any amendments, will be a good solution for the labour market and for the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister on this item on the agenda. Any of you... You're welcome, Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u12	There was... Here I am, Minister. It was mentioned that employees who have firearms to defend their bets... that we are done with this practice, which means that those workers with firearms to protect their bets will not be. Yes? What about the multi-annual agreements signed for such protection?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u13	We have not made any changes here, we use the Arms and Ammunition Act and, as in this Act, the regulations are functioning, and so are they, so to speak, applied. There was no change here, it was just that, so to speak, it was included in our bill, so that it was clear that the rules in this case, which the senator mentioned, were based on the law on arms and ammunition.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Anybody else want to ask you a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] Would Mr Piotr Duda like to speak? You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. Come on in. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would just like to thank you very much for your positive approach to this very important bill. This closes the five-year battle of the trade union, and not just the trade unions, to amend the Temporary Work Agency Act in order to end this pathology of permanent temporary work, because this is how it needs to be expressed. I, in 2012, in May, on behalf of Prime Minister Tusk, submitted a proposal to amend this law. This is the second time I submitted this project to Prime Minister Kopacz in 2014, and after 5 years we have seen this change, positive solutions regarding temporaryity. As Senator Augustine said as rapporteur Senator, but also Minister Stanisław Szwed, it is a matter of actually being temporary. The idea is for the labour agencies to finally understand that they are in order to move the worker to permanent employment as soon as possible and not to make a business out of it. Therefore, once again, I thank you very, very much on behalf of the trade union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. I'd like to inform you that Senator Stanisław Rogut has signed up for the floor. You're welcome. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Senator Rooster, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u17	Briefly. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Mr President of my union NSZZ.Solidarity, which I am still a member of today! I am very pleased that Senator Augustine as rapporteur for the Family and Social Policy Committee My speech will lead rather not towards dialogue or, God forbid, some kind of attack He made it clear that for eight years, or maybe longer, because this law had been lying since 2003, it was like negligence. I would like to return to the fact that such actions of my government and of the Social Dialogue Council would not have been possible if we had not passed a law on the establishment of the Social Dialogue Council. 'Cause you gotta go back to history and tell me what happened when there was a triangular committee. The union did not have a dialogue, rather it was in a collective dispute with the previous government, and such actions simply did not take place. We need to mention the really huge successes of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy... Because I remember the meetings of the family committee and social policy, Mr. Senator Augustine, where it was always said: garbage contracts, garbage contracts, because employers can't stand it. And people were hired at hourly rates... well, it's a shame to say today, but really, how you hear that you hire different people, pay 5 zlotys, and sometimes they say that even a zloty... Now it has been settled and it is clear that the hourly rate is 13 PLN and there is no employment for trash contracts. We all really know that, and that must be considered a huge success. It was always said at committee meetings: because security companies, cleaning companies can't stand it... I always said out loud, who was in those security companies? There were SB officers, police officers who had, I don't know, somehow. Although it is none of my business to undermine the authority of the board of decision-makers and were employed and those who should actually be employed were not employed. I am delighted that, at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, we unanimously adopted this law, and I think that we will also adopt this law here without amendments. And as I say, the Social Dialogue Council, in which there is indeed a dialogue There's a dialogue, and every six months the president changes. There are still many good things he will do under the direction of Minister Swede, because he has these issues, as far as the Labour Code is concerned, in one hand. And how many times was the work code revised during the previous term? I don't want to talk about it in dialogue anymore... But if I did the math, I think it would be in the number... from the two-digit numbers up, because there was still an amendment to the work code. So once again I congratulate you and wish you really success, especially in family matters, in employment matters. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we must remember to stop immigration. As they say, jobs are in London and we must do everything we can to get our young compatriots who are going to London to return to their country, because we are paying taxes on their education. It was supposed to be a green island. I also remember retired people... I remember them showing that they were leaving. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's only now that these pensioners have woken up a little bit and they see that the Government of Law and Justice is looking at a man, looking at his family and looking at an employee as an entity, not as a person. And I really congratulate Mr Augustine on the civil courage that publicly from the speaker said that there was a sin of omission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u18	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! The establishment of special conditions for fixed-term employment was due to what was happening on the labour market at that time. This was a completely different situation than we have today. And then we actually saw it. It's a long time ago. As an opportunity, on the one hand, for all those who were looking forward to permanent employment and, on the other hand, for employers who, on a very liquid, variable market in a very large number of economic segments, needed such workers for short-term employment. ♪ And that hope ♪ they were carried out because, as the Minister presented, the number of agencies and the size of this employment showed that such services on the labour market were very demanding and willing. Only that there were many abuses that were contrary to the law already in force. What Senator Rooster said, unfortunately, is true that, although these irregularities were seen, it still was not possible in the committee to reach a compromise on the change of this state of affairs. This issue may not be demonised, but it must also be said that we are happy together that the Social Dialogue Council was one of the final successes of our government, and this has already been carried out under the rule of law and justice. In this new formula actually works. We should be happy about this. The very construction of this solution was a compromise, and today's functioning of the Council maintains this compromise. Today is in itself a value, because there are few fields After all, this is of fundamental importance Where there is a discussion, dialogue and place for compromise. I would very much like to stress that. Second thing. Although the employment of temporary workers is high I don't know if you're aware that last year it was 826,000 employees. It's not much on the whole employment scale, because it's just 1.3%. Of course, the scale of this temporary employment is higher because it reaches up to 10%. Except the rest are contracts of a different kind. Direct contracts between the employer and the employee, interim contracts. It's not just about fixing past mistakes, adjusting regulations. You have to look to the future. It seems to me that this law is still and will be needed in the labour market. This market is changing, but let's see how. Today, workers will find it difficult to accept temporary work because full - time work is coming. And that's what we're happy about. However, new phenomena are emerging. Namely, the need to employ workers in the care sector is growing. No one can predict the time of employment when taking care of someone infirm. Right? It is likely that part of this employment will apply to this segment. There is a shortage of workers in the labour market. It is a good thing that this law recognises and regulates those who wish to work here, in Poland, issues which are very important to respect their rights. The point is that we don't get foreign slave labor here, we just... but that's the kind of signal. Somewhere in Gdynia, somewhere else... Well, it's almost like labor camps were set up. This amendment is a response not only to what has been observed in the past, so that pathology is not duplicated, but also to future situations, which we can already see as a result of how this labour market is changing. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been in dialogue with representatives of employers... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry. I do not take note of this attempt to change the consensus concerning this time from 1 month to 3 months. We've got two months here, and that's how it's worked out, and that's how it should stay. However, I admit that the arguments that IT systems in companies need to be adapted to the new obligations imposed by the law speak to me. I wouldn't see any great evil in it if we extended the bill's entry into force for a month, giving the employers a signal that we understand their problems. The point is for them to be able to meet these responsibilities. That is why I believe that the amendment to the article. 25, however, would be needed. I dare come forward, Minister, with such an amendment and a request to sacrifice this matter for a moment. It seems that in the case of this law there is no such cherry on the cake, which would be full consent, and in my opinion full consent would be if this law entered into force not on 1 June, but on 1 July. Except for the art, of course. Point 5, point 9, as it is agreed that those provisions should enter into force on 1 January 2018. So that I dare to make such an amendment. [[Why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u20	But she's unsigned, Senator. [[I wrote it upstairs.]] But you have to sign it. [[Good.]] Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] [[It's at the committee meeting, Stasia.]] Please, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask the senators to remain silent.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It seems that this amendment is not fully thought out by employers, if that was the intention. Please bear in mind that we are talking about a month, and when it comes to preparing companies to make changes, it will actually stay out of it for 10 days, because the bill will return to the Sejm, where it will be re-tested, will go to the president and will practically be the same period. So I don't see the need to change here. That's one argument. The second argument we've been talking about is that for many, many months And as Mr President said, it can be said that for many years This case has been the subject of a number of discussions. In particular, representatives of the employment agencies participated. So it's not like we're surprising someone with these changes and the need to make a change. The third argument I've already mentioned In accordance with the guidelines of the Council of Ministers, the rules should enter into force on 1 June or 1 January. Both of these conditions in our bill are included. So that the government cannot support this proposal. Thank you. [[Back it up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. I would like to thank the guests, the Minister, the President. We proceed to consider the next item, the seventh item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 452, and the report of the Commission In print No 452 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The case concerns the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is the regulation contained in Article. The 70th Anti-drug Act, which provides that a decision on the loss of an object which was not the property of the perpetrator or the instrument used to commit the crime, is possible, i.e. optional, regardless of whether it is the property of the perpetrator of the crime. The Constitutional Tribunal stated that such a regulation, which, as I say, optionally permits, infringes certain articles of the Constitution, in particular the principle of proportionality... [[That's not the bill.]] [[That's not the bill.]] [[Mr. Senator, I don't think that's the law.]] [[Drivers.]] Please? [[Voices from the hall: Drivers.]] Oh, now, I'm sorry, because I'm supposed to be the rapporteur on the second act. About the drivers, right? Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I'm sorry, I'm just gonna grab the materials and I'll tell you what. [[Tired.]] [[You're welcome.]] I'll just get the materials. [[It can happen to anyone.]] [[It's already tired.]] [[Maybe we can get to the questions.]] [[Yeah, but you know what to ask?]] [[Quiet, please.]] [[Voice from the room: For this project?]] [[Voice from the hall: Plus a new one, about the drivers.]] [[Is that it, Senator?]] Yeah, and I'm sorry. [[You're welcome.]] Since I am the rapporteur of 2 criminal laws, I changed their order by mistake, pardon. This is about amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Offences, which concern liability, generally, for committing whether it's a crime or a traffic offence. As far as offences are concerned, it is generally a proposal, and this has been adopted, to extend the limitation period for prosecution of offences by 1 year, i.e. that prosecution of offences will be extended after 2 years, and if proceedings have been initiated, this period will be extended by 1 year, so the period will be extended after 3 years. Further proposals are related to the tightening of criminal liability when it comes to causing an accident in an intoxicated state or under the influence of an intoxicating agent if the result is death of a person or serious injury to health. Here is a proposal to introduce a lower sanction than today by establishing it for at least 2 years imprisonment. Finally, there is a proposal to add a new article. 178b, which criminalizes the offence of not stopping the vehicle immediately and continuing to drive where the competent authority is specifically concerned with the police by sound and light signals calling for stopping. The proposal aims to ensure that in such a case a criminal measure in the form of a ban on driving is strictly imposed. All these proposals have been accepted by the committees. There is only a proposal for a possible revision of the provision, which concerns precisely this failure to stop at the call of the police. Namely, the proposal, which received the support of the committee, aims to ensure that there is no automatic judgment of this measure, only that a certain margin of decision is left to the court. Therefore, the proposal aims to introduce a change in the possibility that this measure may be granted in an exceptional case, i.e. the addition at the end of the article saying that such a judgment is followed, of words That's the added wording. Unless there is an exceptional accident justified by specific circumstances. And there is a second proposal, which concerns the same decision prohibiting the driving of motor vehicles, which comes down to introducing a possibility for the court to decide here by deciding that it may be a ban on driving or any type of motor vehicles or vehicles of a particular kind, of course not on a separate basis, the court would have the option to choose here. Well, the argument was that sometimes it doesn't make sense to ban all motor vehicles. An example is the situation in which he was misbehaved, let's say, the pilot of the plane. Let's just say he didn't stop. And the question is, is there any point in ruling against him not to drive any vehicles, including aircraft? Well, in this case, it may not be justified. Although he committed a crime, given the type of vehicle the plane is, I ask the question whether there is any point in ruling in such a case that this pilot, perhaps even very experienced And it is known that we do not have too many pilots, but we have been affected by this ban. Well, it would also happen with some kind of damage to the functioning of society. That is why there is a proposal here that this change should go in this direction. Moreover, during the discussion on whether it would be appropriate to give the court the choice to rule on this ban on driving, various other examples were given. At the moment I do not remember whether it was quoted officially or backstage, but it was said that there are often such situations that, for example. A young man takes his father's car, drives that car, and at the same time wants to stop him, and he's afraid that he's gonna find out that he used that car without his father's permission, doesn't stop. Well, we're not dealing with some corrupt criminal here, we're dealing with a young man who's afraid of a strict father, and that's why he doesn't stop. ♪ And if there's a point right away ♪ Because we bind our hands here to the court to rule this ban on driving? After all, this boy can be very useful to the family in a situation where we have to take the sick... [[He's a good boy...]] ...father or grandma to the hospital. There are situations in life. As I said, life is very rich in events that exceed the possibilities of our theoretical prediction and which, in the opinion of the committee members, justify the introduction of a certain margin of discretion for the court, especially since the court should not apply the rules automatically. Based on knowledge and experience of life, treating each case individually, it should assess and then decide in the judgment whether it is really necessary to apply the measure in question. It was referred to here that similar regulations are in other provisions of the Penal Code. Well, where repression is applied as a rule, there is always an exception that arises, as I said, from the wealth of various life events that often exceed even our imagination when we create certain laws. That's the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the minority, I present a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. I will no longer refer to these matters related to the purpose of the bill or to the particular solutions which you discussed very closely here, Senator Silchoń. All I can say is that from the committee meeting and from the in-depth analysis presented by Minister Wójcik present at the meeting, we are dealing with a particularly large number of crimes that are regulated here in Poland. There are a very large number of road fatalities and, at the same time, particularly liberal judicial case law in this area. We are often accused of taking such data from the ceiling, but from what I remember, the Minister himself quoted that about 30% of the decisions in these cases in recent years have been issued using a conditional suspension institution. This situation requires a radical change. The Commission has dealt with very different, often very abstract issues, legal cases, which, of course, can be imagined, but they are not, I would say, the basis for these regulations. We, in creating these regulations, are trying to respond especially to the perpetrators of multiple offences, the perpetrators of these offences, these crimes repeatedly, with premeditated and in such a huge sense of impunity, and even mocking the justice system, the police. Well, here such a particularly famous, loud media example is the case of Frog, who organized rallying around Warsaw and filmed them and then published these films on the Internet. Well, it's a completely outrageous situation, mocking the justice system and the police. This situation must be radically changed. And this is the basic ratio legis of these changes. The discussion at the committee meeting was very long, which was a bit surprising, because in the Sejm It was similar with the views of the majority of the parties who responded to this law. There were no particular reservations. As a representative of the Ministry of Justice, summing up this discussion, the Minister made it clear that the proposed amendments were not necessary, they often have no justification, and in some cases their introduction, so I would say, would undermine the purpose of this law, as it could lead to the fact that in judicial case law would not change anything. As an argument, it was stated that the general part of the criminal code does not change that, in order for an act to be considered a criminal offence, it must comply with the conditions of the criminal act set out in the general part of the civil code, so that some particular automation in the ruling cannot be. After such a position had been expressed by the Ministry of Justice, the President of the Law and Justice Club, Senator Marek Martynowski, submitted a proposal for adoption of the law without amendment. Unfortunately, this conclusion did not get the majority, which is why I am here today in a rather strange role, rarely encountered. The representative of the minority. Yeah, but that's what happens sometimes, the arithmetic of pranks sometimes does. It seems that the vote ended with the result of 7 to 7 so that there was no one vote to pass the motion. That's why it's my report. I'm maintaining the minority's motion to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u26	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Piotr Florek would like to ask you a question. Just indicate to which Senator the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u27	To the rapporteur of the majority. I have a question about this very controversial article. 178b. This is a new article. The Senator rapporteur discussed it in part. The point is that if the person empowered to control issues an order to stop and that person does not stop immediately This is the provision in this article:...does not stop immediately, then this person will be punishable by imprisonment. This punishment is from 3 months to 5 years. The senator was talking about the amendment here, about adding that in exceptional circumstances, so that the court... Well, that's the right amendment. I will make another amendment, and I would like to know whether this subject was also discussed, whether you were discussing it on the committee... Because if we consider art. 178a, and there is talk of being intoxicated or under the influence of drugs, etc., and Article. 180a, which also refers to the taking away of powers to drive, etc., we will see that in these regulations there is such a provision everywhere: there is a fine, a penalty for restrictions on liberty or imprisonment. I see no reason not to use a similar refund in this article: it is fined. And why... And the question is whether or not you were discussing this in committee, or whether it was the subject of a discussion, because I would like to make such a request. The rapporteur gave one example, I will give the other. Well, I don't know, let's say a woman drives a car in the night, a forest area, and here comes a car on a light and sound signal... Well, in the event of an accident, the Prime Minister had a discussion about this signal; there were two bords or several bords, and they didn't know whether there was a sound signal or not, so here... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] I'm almost done. ...so here's a word against a word... And here we are talking about an immediate stop, rapporteur. Therefore, if it does not stop immediately, it will be punished from 3 months to 5 years. So I'm asking if you've been discussing, talking... However, more restrictive rules are in terms of the state of drunkenness, and here this fine or possible restriction of freedom does not exist. Was that the subject of the discussion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u28	Thank you very much, Senator. And you will ask Senator Aleksander Pociej, please. I ask that the questions last no longer than a minute, I remind you of this regulatory record.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u29	Thank you. I have a question for the senator. Mr. Senator said it's aimed mainly at the worst offenders who repeatedly repeat criminal behavior. I'd like the senator to give you a rule that says it applies to these multiples... and not to those who will behave like this for the first time. Thank you very much... Of course, in terms of not stopping at the direction of the person entitled to stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u30	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u31	Yes, Mr. Senator, this issue has been considered. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no need to introduce an alternative threat to the penalty of a fine or the penalty of a restriction of freedom, just the wording itself on the threat of imprisonment, which does not rule out that the court may apply these more lenient penalties, but this is the result of the general provision of the Article. 37a of the Penal Code, which states that if the law provides for a sentence of imprisonment of not more than 8 years, a fine or a sentence of limitation of liberty may be imposed instead. And that's why there's no need for these two lighter scales of punishment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u32	Thank you, Senator. [[Senator Komarnicki.]] In a minute, Mr. Senator. You're welcome, Senator Crack. The answer to Senator Aleksander Pociej's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u33	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, well, indeed, here you have shown some inconsistencies in my speech, but it was a general one, and I was not referring to this particular issue, because here is indeed some automation and such a strict, absolute act of the law also towards those perpetrators who commit this kind of act for the first time. But it was also mentioned in the committee, that it is such a very impressive vision of someone who drives through this dark forest, right, under some particularly difficult conditions, and does not stop for any such to say unjustified police signals... Well, we're talking about a situation where somebody clearly breaks traffic regulations first and only then starts a possible chase, only then is the action taken. So I'm going back to my general assessment of the facts that will actually be subject to revision, because it's not like this bill is about to harass... [[But maybe.]] ...especially people who accidentally committed some minor traffic violation. Of course, as I say, this can happen because life is rich, but every regulation, especially the regulation of the criminal code, creates an abstract kind of situation that is the most typical one with which the law enforcement or the justice system will meet. And that's what this is about, and we know there's more and more of it today. Specially in road traffic When we're dealing with some kind of redecisive and behavior that, in some environments, is becoming even more heroic, that someone is just making it obvious to themselves, colloquially speaking, he's from the police, from the justice system, and he's still bragging about it, and he's still talking about it on social media. We can't allow this to happen. And I think that's the basic purpose of this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u34	Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator. Now you ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have two questions for the rapporteur, Senator Silence, if you don't mind. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, because I saw you on your way to the bench to rest. [[It's okay.]] Does the legislator have an analysis of statistics from other Western countries that would confirm a decrease in the number of similar events due to the increase in the penalty for perpetrators? That's my first question. And my second question concerns the committee's report, which refers to the fact that Members introduced inter alia. amendment to the Code of Offences. It is, Mr. Senator, specifically Chapter V, whose title is "Presentation of the judgment, execution of the sentence, and obliteration of the punishment." So far, Art. 45 §1 reads as follows: "Criminality of the offence shall cease if one year has elapsed since it was committed; if proceedings have been initiated during that period, the criminality of the offence shall cease within two years of the act being committed.' The Commission proposes that the criminality of the offence should cease two years after the end of that period. My question is this: does this mean that, in the case of a long case of misdemeanor, even if one of the parties lodges a complaint about the length of proceedings, the penalty for misdemeanor may be imposed in this situation, Mr. Senator, in fact, infinity? [[Sorry, I didn't hear you. How can it be determined?]] Infinity.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u36	Infinity. [[No...]] You're welcome... [[Mr. Senator, no, your concerns...]] Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry... [[I'm sorry.]] I would also like to ask Senator Czerwinski and Senator Flork if they have any questions for the rapporteur. [[Yeah, maybe similar...]] [[I have a question for the rapporteur of the minority.]] Good. You're welcome, Mr. Senator. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u37	I have a similar question. I have a question that complements what the senator was asking at the moment. I'm asking for criminality for misdemeanor, an extension of this period. Did you have any data at committee meetings that would confirm how many cases there are, how many thousands of decisions... what is the percentage, whether it's 10%, 5%, 0.1%? , or 0,2% , or 3% ? What is the extent to which this provision needs to be amended when it comes to criminality for offences?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u39	I'll answer Senator Flork's first question. There is no fear that the matter will be prolonged indefinitely and that it will be possible to punish almost many, many years after the act was committed, for the maximum period will be 3 years. Where proceedings have been initiated within one year of the act being committed, two years shall be added. So the maximum term is three years. I just want to remind you that historically these limitation periods have evolved differently. In communist times, it was a six-month and one-year term. Incidentally, in most cases of political misconduct in which I defended, it was possible to obtain a statute of limitations on the prosecution of these acts. Then this period was extended to one year and two years. Now for the third time, we're prolonging this, this time up to 3 years, and we're getting closer to the limitation threshold that occurs during crimes. In the case of offences, the shortest limitation period shall be 5 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u40	Thank you very much. [[Excuse me, Miss Marshal. I didn't get the answer to my first question at all. Why don't I repeat it, Senator?]] Do you remember that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u41	I remember. Good. I'm gonna refer to that because I'm sure that's what you mean... You have mentioned here that if there is a proceeding affected by chronicity and a complaint has been brought against the length of proceedings, does it have any effect on the validity of the limitation period? There isn't. There isn't. But according to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the case-law of our Supreme Court, if there is a chronicity of proceedings, this should then be reflected in the fact that the penalty will be a little more lenient, because the length of proceedings is a kind of blame on the part of the State in relation to who is being judged. Therefore, the principle of decency would require that he be compensated in terms of punishment, which would be a little lighter. [[Excuse me, Miss Marshal. You didn't convince me, but let's leave it. Let me repeat my first question, rapporteur: does the legislator have an analysis of statistics from other Western countries that would confirm a decrease in the number of similar incidents in connection with the increase of penalties for perpetrators?]] From what I remember, I don't think there was a discussion about it. At least I don't know anything about such data being presented. It's hard for me to say whether we have them or not. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u42	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwiński would like to ask Senator Mark Pop a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I usually address questions to ministers and I don't tire of senators, but I was concerned that you said that Art. There's a new crime here because it hasn't happened so far. It will only apply to extreme cases, I don't know, to chase after criminals, etc. Except it's not in the description of the crime. There is no written wording here in case of reasonable suspicion of committing a crime or offence, etc., there is simply an objective mark here. There's a chase... I mean, the signals are on. This may not be called a chase at all. There's no sign of a chase. [[Yeah, there's not even a chase.]] Signals are on, driver's to stop. Please note that these are minimal and very general marks. Perhaps it is true that, in some specific, pragmatic provisions concerning police behaviour, it is written somewhere that signals can be activated in the event of a crime or suspicion of a crime or offence, but citizens' rights should not be regulated at the level of instructions to the police, only at the level of the law, in this case The criminal code. So this recipe, if that's the way we're arguing it, it's definitely lame, because it's too general.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u44	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome. [[Okay, well, I didn't really decode the question, it was more of a polemic...]] Mr. Senator, please briefly rephrase the question. [[Do you think what I said was right? Can you make the opposite argument?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u45	As I am saying, this solution actually confirms a certain automation of actions and a situation that allows, especially police, rapid pursuit and concrete action. But I'm going back to what I said earlier. This whole thing has got to come from something. I've been driving for a dozen years, driving a lot, and I've never been chased before. I think most of us have similar life experiences. So, as I say, this is looking for such highly sublime cassians. I think the Minister will be a better person than me to justify it, point to the ratio legis. I am a representative, as I said earlier, of a minority proposal that was more political in nature. I am the Senator of Law and Justice, and if the President of the Law and Justice Club applies for a bill without amendment, then I understand that I am to support my government. Of course, I think that, as a rule, this law is right, and as far as the details are concerned, I think that here the Minister will be more competent.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u46	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is with us today. Welcome very much, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u47	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the lively debate in the Senate, much more profound in terms of these changes that we present as a government, changes in really 4 laws: in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the Criminal Code, in the Code of Offences and in the Law on Road Traffic. There was not so much discussion during the legislative work in the Sejm. I appreciate this discussion very much and thank you very much for the fact that many questions have already been raised at the committee meeting. Today, I understand, there are more questions. Maybe I'll just go back to the point of the regulation. Well, let me start by saying that we're not doing this for purely populist reasons. We got acquainted, I got acquainted with various opinions for this project, among others. with an opinion sent by the Supreme Court. I'm not hiding that part two on the revision of the criminal code... Let me recall one sentence, which I disagree with, but it is worth recalling at this point, because the Supreme Court has made quite detailed reference to all the amendments. Here's the passage: "According to a general assessment of the proposed changes in the criminal code, it can be argued that they are part of the idea of populist punitivity, which implies an increase in the scope of criminalisation and repression. Penal populism is based on the view of an omnipotence of criminal punishment, which is supposed to be the more effective it is, the more severe it is. This position is reflected in the denial of the philosophy of punishment with the rational concept of harsh punishment and the approval of negative general prevention, understood in such a way that the more severe the punishment, the more it has the ability to deter and deter other individuals from committing crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, this project, these solutions came from an event that took place in Warsaw, in Prague a few months ago. There was a 14-year-old girl who was passing through the lanes correctly. It was a media event, it was shown very widely, because it happened that there was a camera in the car belonging to one of the media, and it recorded how the driver was moving around the city until this tragic event, until the girl died on the lanes, and I will repeat it again, passing through it correctly. There was a person sitting behind the wheel who shouldn't be sitting there because she had a lot of things, a typical road pirate. This is how we started looking at the whole system, whether it is not a system that works, but unfortunately with gaps. This situation has shown that there are gaps, that art. 180a, which I may be talking about here today, which appears in the criminal code relatively recently, is not without a gap. Because if there wasn't a gap, maybe that person wouldn't be behind the wheel, and that girl wouldn't have died. And I would like to say to you that, despite the many sentences that have already been said here or are yet to be spoken, we cannot withdraw from those solutions that we have proposed because we must protect our citizens. I don't want to talk about populism. It sometimes appeared in our discussion. And what I've called here is as if it could show that it's populism, that people want it, so we're giving it a solution. That's not the point, not at all. It's not about discussing whether a sanction is to be very severe or whether punishment is to be inevitable. She's just supposed to be fair. I repeat, fair. And it's not fair that someone who's intoxicated has at least 0.5. a promila alcohol in the blood, sits behind the wheel of the car and causes an accident resulting in death or serious injury to the health of another person, is punishable under conditions of freedom. From my point of view, it's not fair. And among others. Therefore, the changes discussed here have emerged. Of course, there is a public approval for this type of change. And there's no doubt about it. It may be the strongest blade of criticism that was directed at us during the Senate work, but I do not view it as an attack on us, on the resort, I do not treat it in a negative way, but as a positive way. Because we're talking about an extremely delicate matter, an important matter that really affects all of us. But I would like to mention a survey that was conducted on Radio Three yesterday, where the question of punishing drunk drivers was asked. And 70% the persons advocated that there should be solutions so that the institution of conditional suspension of the penalty cannot be applied. And even 30% of such decisions in cases of which the State I said that when a person in a state of drunkenness or under the influence of drugs or other narcotics leads to an accident and someone dies, it is issued using an institution conditionally suspended execution of the sentence. Of course, the court has the right to do so, because the legislator has determined the lower legal sentence in the event of such a situation, the lowest one, at the rate of 9 months. Thus, the institution may be used. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet.]] I think there will be some questions, but I would like to say very clearly that this is not about a very restrictive way of looking at the situation. What you were talking about, Senator Pop, statistical issues... They're important. Well, as you do not react, ladies and gentlemen, since we have over 30,000 accidents a year, more than 40,000 people are injured in these cases each year, more than 12 000 are seriously injured, that is to say, serious health damage, more than 3,000 people die a year, more than 500 people die because of those who sit behind the wheel in an intoxicated state, and 72 children died last year. Well, we, as the legislative authority, speak yes, although I stand before you here as a representative of the executive authority, but I am also a Member of the legislative authority, so we must put an end to this madness. There's a problem. I know that when you look at statistics, you can see that there are fewer and fewer of these types of crimes. I know, I admit it. But in this respect, we still stand aside from other European countries. I gave an example of how many people die from 100 accidents in Poland and how many in Germany and Austria. And that's an important statistic. Our role is to create such a legal framework so as not to restrict the courts in any way, not to step in too hard. The Court of First Instance, of course, has the right to impose penalties, taking into account the various directives on the level of penalties, etc., but this framework is what we are creating. And we must, in my opinion, fight this phenomenon, undesirable, difficult, fight. This is where this proposal came up, on a number of issues that the Senators of the rapporteurs have already talked about. Of course, I can say more about this if there is any question, although we answered the questions in detail during the committee work. I believe that this project... that these solutions deserve support. And I ask you to support these solutions. But to conclude with this speech, I'm running away from labeling us that we're run by cheap populism, and we want to put people in prison, and we want to tighten up our punishments. No, we want these penalties to be fair, so that the idea of justice is realized also through this project, a very important project with which I am, I can say, emotionally related. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. And I'm waiting, as I understand it, for questions if they are.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Alexander Swede. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. This question has already been discussed and in the course of the parliamentary debate, and a bit at the committee meeting. It's about the urgency. As in the context of the amendment under consideration, immediate stopping of the vehicle will be treated where this is not possible e.g. for road safety reasons? Isn't this provision going to cause interpretational doubts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u50	You're welcome, Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Mrs Marshal, may I ask more questions? I'll answer more right away...]] Good. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński has also volunteered. Please, Mr. Senator. Anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First line. From your speech, I've come to the conclusion that I'm in favour of protecting those who kill children in lanes. Well, you can't kind of burden us with that. Because the bill is supposed to be good, and it's supposed to be effective, and I think we agree on that. And no one here is accusing you that this is a political issue. Me, for example. I will vote in favour of this law not for political reasons, not for club reasons, but for typically substantive reasons. But there is one record that really causes controversy. It's a new crime, Art. 178b. I know that you can invent extreme cases when this article will be used and when it may not be used. A simple example: a non-marked patrol car which has lights not on the roof, but built behind the truss, behind the radiator's cover, low placed When it is too close to the vehicle that precedes, these lights are simply invisible. And now you have a word against words. The driver says he didn't see the lights, and the cops say, and we turned them on. And this is the case that is referred to in the article. 178b. Because there's no obligation to record, at least I've never heard of anything like that. I'm not talking about the fact that there's at least no detail here, and there should be a reason why this driver is being stopped by a police car. I'm not talking about evidence in court anymore. I'm talking about... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...by carrying out the act itself. [[I'm asking you a question.]] Yeah, yeah. This article is leaky, covers a very large number of general cases. Of course, you will talk about issues such as: Froga and annoying us, also media cases, but in life there are not only Frogs. There are also normal, honest drivers who drive cars and maybe fall under this article by accident. [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question. Then you can sign up for the discussion.]] And here's the question: do you agree with my argument?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u52	Now, right? [[Senator Jerzy Czerwiński: Yes.)]] Okay, I get it. Well, in that case, 'Cause three questions have been asked, Minister. [[Me too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u53	Thank you very much. [[I know, gentlemen, Senators Pociej and Szymanski, but that's later.]] First, I'm going to talk about the issue of urgency. Instantly, this concept was actually very vague, often defined in case law. Well, immediately, that is, without undue delay. What does that mean? I'm laughing because lawyers usually smile in a situation like this, but you know that's really how it's defined. Well, what I'm trying to say is that that doesn't mean that if someone's on the highway, they're gonna stop right now. Each of us knows exactly what the conditions are to be met to stop safely. Safely, that is, so as not to pose a risk to road traffic. The manner in which detention takes place is governed by a regulation of the Minister of the Interior, in which it is quite detailed, at which point in time what is happening and how all this is done. I don't know if we talked about this in the Senate. I do not remember whether we had the opportunity to present this to you, but in the Sejm we certainly presented information about it. It is a matter of fact that the word "on the highway" can mean that it will take five to ten kilometers away. This is to be done in a safe place so as not to endanger traffic. [[Now you're out of line.]] Please? [[You're out of line.]] No, I didn't overreact, Senator. [[But 10 kilometers?]] [[Voice from the hall: On the highway.]] On the highway. [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet. Minister, continue.]] I was talking about the highway. So, so much for the issue of urgency. I think that each of us, having a certain life experience, in some sense can determine whether driving a vehicle is doing something immediately or not. So I don't think it should cause any special difficulties. It is important that the person who is sitting in the vehicle is aware that he is being pursued by the police and that all the marks that are specified in the article are present. 178b. And now I move on to Senator Czerwinski's statement. Well, Mr. Senator, first of all, I would like to say that under no circumstances was I referring to what you said. I'm sorry, but I didn't even hear exactly what you said at the time, because I was busy explaining one of those issues. Perhaps that's the impression you've had, but under no circumstances have I been referring to what you've been saying and not to any senator. This is the first case. The second case concerns Froga. Well, the question of Froga refers rather to another problem that we are also discussing here, namely the limitation of offences. That also requires some explanation. Well, that's where the questions were. The point is, we're prolonging the period of time followed by the statute of limitations. In the case of Frog, eighty-seven offences have been statute-barred. Since it has been two years since those acts were committed, the courts had to issue a decision to terminate the proceedings. We extend this time to 3 years. The Frog case does not fall within Article. 178b. This is only about the question of the code of offences and the change in the fact that we are extending this period by one year. Why? I will answer right away because this issue was raised in the statements of one of the rapporteurs. We extend this time, Ladies and gentlemen, because often the courts in these 2 years could not fit. The question was, how many cases were there that were statute-barred. In the case of road safety offences, there are about 1,000 of them per year. We extend this because it is often the case that the court initiates proceedings for some provision, e.g. the provision of the Penal Code leads them, and it suddenly turns out that there is a change of qualification and the procedure must be carried out further, but already in the case of misconduct. It's just that time goes by and the courts can't fit in these two years. One of the opinions I can't remember exactly which one is saying that it's done against the courts. That is for the courts, for the judges. The point is to extend this time by a year, so that they can fit in in time and settle the matter fairly and that there is no redemption, because it is simply unfair. As far as the article is concerned. 178b, this concerns a serious crime. Until now, it's been a misdemeanor. The point was, someone doesn't stop for control. Such situations are situations that we face on a daily basis. It's been in place so far, and it's probably gonna continue to work, but it's not gonna be a misdemeanor anymore. We are introducing a completely new type of crime, described in the article. 178b. Why? Because it's a crazy dangerous act. Why? An example from a few weeks ago, West Pomeranian. In one of the media all day long, the next day, I think there was an incident like this: a person didn't stop for control, started running from the police, police cars chased this person, this person got on the road of rapid traffic and drove up this road of rapid traffic, and the police followed her. It all ended at the gas station with a shooting. Situations in which such escapes occur are very common situations. It's a plague. The police, I can tell you, are having difficulty dealing with these kinds of actions. Imagine that someone doesn't stop for control, escapes through the police, drives into the city and poses a huge threat to people moving in this city, not only those on the roads, but also those around the roads. And what is this person ultimately responsible for? Very often for the offence, for the offence, and not for the crime, because it is often impossible to carry out evidence to prove that another person's life or health has been compromised. This person is simply responsible for the offence. Well, let's change something about that. In my opinion, this is a very serious crime. I think this sanction, I know she was being criticized. It is a sanction appropriate to the degree of social harm, the degree of danger. In this case, which the senator is talking about... Of course, it could happen that someone wouldn't notice at night, but a deliberate crime, where to start... If someone doesn't know he's being detained and then there's a chase, then he doesn't commit a crime, he doesn't commit a crime. In order for a crime to happen, the marks must be exhausted. And here we have the light signaling and the sound signaling together, together. So if it's just sound or light, then we're not dealing with this crime. What I'm saying is that there must be at least a deliberate crime committed in the intention of a possible, deliberate wine in the intention of a possible... He's chased because he didn't stop, he's aware of it, and he's running away. And we're dealing with a crime. This is a serious crime. Of course, the issue of evidence If he has been chased, how, what the circumstances have been, this is already a matter of court. He's not a politician anymore, he's not a minister anymore, he's not a senator anymore. It is the court which is able to determine, in the course of the investigation, whether or not these marks have been exhausted. As a matter of principle, as far as construction is concerned, it should be a crime, not a misdemeanor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. And you ask Senator Antoni Szymanski, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister has provided And that's what's important. Neither the ministry nor the government are driven by cheap populism and polls, but in their legal solutions they aim to ensure that they are fair and effective. Today we have two such amendments because we are about to talk about the Penal Code in the context of alimony. There's more punishment in there, too. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are considering a very large number of projects during this term, in which the penalties are tightened. It seems as if the Ministry of Justice considers the solution in the form of tightening penalties to be extremely effective and extremely good. I would ask you to respond to this point. We had laws on e.g. economic issues for which such solutions raised doubts. These Solutions Today And that which we are discussing, and that which we are about to discuss, does not raise my personal doubts, but such solutions in various laws are very much and this impression nevertheless appears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u56	Thank you very much. And Senator Aleksander Pociej, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I will return to your answer to Senator Czerwinski's question. I had that impression, at least that's how I read it. If it's wrong, I'm only saying it in my own name. It's just that your way of arguing is that you're putting those who have doubts about your solutions. And the doubts are really purely legal, on one side, with those who don't want to help people who are dying. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: No, no...]] No? That's how I read it, and I think that's how Senator Czerwinski's thought was formulated. Therefore, it would be important not to put us who have doubts about these solutions on the other side, i.e. as those who want to drive around and drive people around on the lanes. Your last example, the one about the escape that ended with the shooting, amused me a little, because if you think that someone who runs from the police, and in the end doesn't give up, starts a shooting, wonders what the lower threshold of punishment is, and whether it's a misdemeanor or a crime... Well, you know he's gonna be in jail for shooting cops, and he's gonna be in jail for a long time, so that's a bad example. That's not what we're talking about here. [[Question, Senator, question.]] And my question is this. If you have those regulations that you don't want to change anything, Despite the fact that the majority in the committee voted in favour of this And you don't even want to give up on the jota... And you have a woman... And that's not a dupe example, because such events are unfortunately quite common, they circulate in the media space and our normal human space. Well, let's say a woman comes home in a car tonight and stops her unmarked patrol. And look what you're doing! Because she's not gonna stop, and it's not gonna stop consciously, because she's scared, she's gonna go under her house, she's gonna call her husband to leave, and it's gonna turn out there are cops... And here's what your automation does? First of all, she must be convicted, and second of all, she must lose her driver's license. And don't tell me that this is an extortion and theoretical example, because there are quite a lot of these things. I'm terribly surprised you don't want to leave the court an option to judge. And I'd like to ask, why don't you leave the court with the possibility of judging in such nuanced cases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u58	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I will no longer return to the matter of art. 178b, because I will make an appropriate amendment in relation to what my previous speakers have said. But you said we were dealing with a crime there... And I'll remind you of the article you mentioned, Art. 180a but also Article. 178a: who is in a state of drunkenness or under the influence of narcotic drugs is subject to a fine, a penalty for restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2. And let me give you an example: the state of inebriation of 1.5 g of alcohol in the breath... And here are the restrictions. A person who drives a car like this commits an even more dangerous crime 'Cause that's a crime, too, in my opinion. But it is therefore only subject to such restrictions. That's what Art says. 180a. Why are you... Since you're introducing this article. 178b and such restrictions, why don't you change the article. 178a and 180a? Because that would be justified for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u60	Thank you very much. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u61	I'll start by answering Senator Pociej's question. If it seemed like I was putting any senator on the other side, I'm sorry again. Under no circumstances have I ever had such intentions. I must even say that there was a funny situation during the committee meeting when Senator Marek Borowski pointed out the question that I had asked whether one of the senators had ever had such a situation, because if not, what we are talking about at all. And, of course, I accepted... Well, naturally the question should not be put in this way, because if there are no reports, let's assume that regulation is good, and if there are, then the next day this senator, I understand, would already be functioning in some medium for this very reason. Of course, I'll take it. Perhaps I was misunderstood, perhaps I misunderstood in some way. Once again, I welcome every remark. I'm just trying to answer questions about those regulations I'm going to defend. Mr. Senator says what happens when an unmarked vehicle... If an unmarked vehicle can't be... Well, Mr. Senator, the vehicle must be marked with sound signals and light signals. 'Cause otherwise it's... Mr. Senator, you know that very well from your practice. [[Excuse me, I meant this isn't a police car where uniformed policemen are sitting.]] The vehicle must be marked. There must be a vehicle... [[Yes, there will be sound signals...]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't enter into a discussion with the Minister.]] I see. Those marks I was trying to replace. Of course, it's an evidence issue, Mr. Senator knows that. Well, what's it like today? After all, what does a court do about offences? He investigates exactly such situations and somehow does not have hands tied by the legislator, conducts evidence proceedings and checks whether a misdemeanor has been committed or not. Well, we don't change anything about that. We're just saying, now it's not going to be a crime, it's going to be a crime, because we think it's a very dangerous thing to do, that it poses a threat to road safety, to other users, to people who are random passersby. How many people died like that? We say, "This is no longer a misdemeanor, it will be a crime." So I'm kind of trying to explain it this way. As for the issue of this populism, i.e. the creation of regulations and the telling of new regulations which are under the public, under expectation, social demand... Act on vat extortion, Ladies and Gentlemen, what the senator signaled here, i.e. economic issues... We talked about this, didn't we? A very strict sanction, one of the highest in Europe, in extraordinary situations, when we deal with the fact that there is a product or service on the invoice with a value exceeding 5 million... 10 million... 5 million PLN, if I remember... Five or ten million... [[Ten million.]] Excuse me, 10 million zlotys in this qualified type. The most severe sanction. 25 years of imprisonment. I remember because I was with you when the national prosecutor came between my first and second appearance here and informed that at the request of the West Pomeranian Public Prosecutor's Office 14 people were arrested who were paranoid about vat fraud, and it was those who had previously functioned in the Pruszkow Mafia, it was the old management of the Pruszkow Mafia. Please pay attention to what has happened in the last few months and how much more VAT money stays in the budget. Why did this happen? 'Cause there's no more vat extortion, 'cause you know what's going on. Well, there isn't. Is there a budget surplus? There it is. Is there an increase in VAT? It's a giant height. Well, it's coming from something. Someone said it wouldn't be quarterly now, but monthly accounting. So maybe it's something else? Perhaps, but no one can question that the project we presented here, these VAT regulations, has caused the criminal world to move elsewhere. And I hope that happens, let them go somewhere else. After all, this is our success together. And we discussed whether such far-reaching penalties should be provided for in this regulation. Yeah, but we said they were very dangerous crimes. And see what happens almost every week when it comes to the gas issues of the vat. Almost every week. Well, no one can 100%. to say that this regulation caused it, but also nobody 100% She can't say it wasn't her. Let's wait a few more months, try to evaluate it. For now, it is much better with regard to VAT receipts than expected. [[In construction, it leads...]] As far as the issue of alimony and non-alination is concerned, which you will be discussing in a moment, let me say that we are not tightening penalties here. I want to say very strongly here... There will probably be another representative of the Justice Department here, but I also want to pay close attention to the fact that we are not tightening penalties for non-alination offences. We're just saying, we're changing the article. 209 Penal Code in such a way that it does not create a gateway to using at least one of the marks, stubbornness, to escape payment of a specific witness to the person entitled to it. Of course, I hope we're going to popularize the idea of using electronic surveillance, pads... [[Voices from the room: Paddy?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Stripes, I'm sorry... Electronic stripes... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...special stripes that are worn in certain places. Yeah, I'm sorry. It was a humorous element, but I've been answering your questions for a long time, so... But that's a good thing, and that means the senators are listening to me because the gym's a little lively. [[Would you like some water for the Minister?]] [[Thank you very much, Minister...]] I just want to say... [[Oh, you're going on. You're welcome.]] We're using a different regulation here, we're not sharpening it here... But here, in this case, I would like to say that... once again I say and give you an example, for example, of the last Christmas, please: a dozen people died on the roads, arrested 1,200 drunks. Where are we supposed to keep this madness? Where? Here, in the Senate. In the Seym and in the Senate we must do this, we must create a framework so that really on Polish roads we can drive safer. And we're responsible for that. On the question of why not a fine, why not a restriction of freedom, I will say: for systemic reasons, because it is so that if there is already an indication of more than 2 years, it is no longer applicable when it comes to sanctions, fines and restrictions on freedom. If it is below, i.e. there is, for example, a fine, a limitation of liberty, a sentence of imprisonment of up to 1 year, a fine, a limitation of liberty of up to 2 years... But more than two years ago, it's a prison sentence, systemically. That's why it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u62	Thank you, Minister. Question is, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u63	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm not here to question the level of penalties, etc., but maybe I'll give you an example that shouldn't have happened. A friend's husband was driving a car, he was under the influence of alcohol, I think he was stopped by the police, but he started running out of fear. And he had to go home about three kilometers. He was running, the police chased him, and he was driving so fast, he just hit a car that was coming from across the street. He killed himself, the family from that car killed himself, and the police hit that car and crashed the car. And now the question is, wouldn't it be better if the police weren't after him so hard, just, let's say, another way to stop him? For example, she'd drive home or some other way... And then he'd... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm not talking about punishment, because he should be punished. But so many people would live if... Maybe we need to do something psychologically, not just that if someone's running away, they're chasing him right on the signal... you know, if he's under the influence of alcohol, he's gonna drive fast and then he's gonna do more harm than he's gonna do slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u64	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u65	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the Minister... [[The mic went off.]] [[They've turned off...]] [[Sit down, maybe next door...]] [[Too many questions.]] Can you hear me now? [[Yes.]] I'm sorry, this was a situation here... Minister, I have the following question. Did the Ministry estimate the extent of the lack of inevitability of punishment for the crimes we are discussing here today under the current regulations, namely those that are in force today, and what possible reduction will occur as a result of the proposed changes, which are in principle justified? If the Minister could give us some numbers. whether the estimates in this regard, I would be grateful. In particular, this provision extending the statute of limitations on the issue of these three years may be important here, because perhaps the intensity of the measures aimed at ensuring that the perpetrator of a criminal offence or crime was not so large as to be able to complete it... When they're practically three years old, it might change. But is there any statistical data on this subject that could be referred to? Are there any numbers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u66	Thank you very much. And maybe now I'll ask you to ask Marshal Borusewicz's question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u67	Minister, you have given various extreme examples of accidents that caused death. Please tell me whether the trend is decreasing or rising in terms of the number of road fatalities.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u68	Thank you very much. And I ask the Minister to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u69	I'll start by answering your Marshal's question. Yeah, there's a downward trend, but not all of them... About... I'd have to check it thoroughly, Mr. Marshal, and I don't have the figures for 2016. But I do not hide, during the parliamentary work one of the Members said that a specific group was responsible for these accidents, for example. The number of people who die on Polish roads is increasing, and he has just taken out data from the statistics from the years when the group opposed to what I represent ruled. I'd like to... Of course, I'm talking about it by giving this as an example of the fact that it was tried to politicize the case. I understand that Mr. Marshal doesn't mean that at all, but that's the sort of thing that actually happened. Well, these accidents are simply too much, regardless, Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, that the trend is decreasing. I used statistical data, which shows that in 100 accidents in Austria or Germany 1 person is killed, and in Poland 8 people are killed, so there is a problem that we should fight against. We cannot drag ourselves in the tail of Europe, even if the situation has improved. Because that is true: the situation has improved in this respect, although, as I remember, not in terms of the number of deaths, although I must check it out. Excuse me, sir, if the marshal wishes, we will, of course, pass on these statistics. I've been using the police chief's data. They're published. There's an annual report that we're tracking for the data we're talking about, for example. how many such crimes have been committed. The trend is decreasing, but not in every category. If you'd allow me, I would have sent the materials if you'd asked me. [[All I need is an answer from you that I've heard right now.]] Thank you very much. As for the issue of statistics, as Senator Jackowski also asked, and the issue of inevitability and what could be next... Inevitability versus sanction, and I say justice. That's why I started my speech with the idea of justice. Punishment must simply be fair. When we look at some kind of crime... I don't know, like... Amber Gold. So what if there's even a punishment? The question is, is she fair? Even when punishment is inevitable, the question is whether. It's fair to impose a very low penalty. There is no discussion about whether punishment is inevitable or repressive, it simply needs to be fair. That is why these regulations are presented by us. However, I believe that these accidents, crimes, will be less. I'm sure of it. Why do I think that? Well, for example, because of the issue of isolation of those who are the perpetrators of the most serious accidents in which people die or suffer severe health harm, and the perpetrator is intoxicated, drug or drug abuse. And usually these people... the person who was drunk again commits... Well, not usually, but it happens a lot. And these people will be isolated. In my opinion, the discussion that is being conducted today through the media also somehow educates society. Today, people must be aware that if they consume alcohol and... They must be aware that the effect of this can be that they will end up in prison. Of course, there are extraordinary situations. And that's what we're asking you. Absolutely extraordinary situations when you can apply... Even if the situation is that a person in a state of drunkenness leads to an accident resulting in, for example, an accident. The death of a person, it can be by passing through an extraordinary relaxation of the sentence, and then by an institution conditional suspension of the sentence, lead to the fact that this person will not be in prison. But these are absolutely extraordinary situations. And it's the court that has this, let's call it, the safety vents, that's a possibility. There was another remark here earlier: what if, if he is sick, he goes to the hospital and suddenly comes to such a dramatic situation that falls within the framework of one of the crimes that we are talking about today? In the general section, the section on the exclusion of criminal liability contains a provision on a higher degree of necessity. So the courts have safety valves in absolutely extraordinary situations. This is how I would like to answer this question. And the senator's third question. It was about... I'm sorry, I don't remember. [[It was about the police's way of prosecuting.]] Please? [[It was about the way the police prosecuted, the way they...]] Oh, well, it would be better if the police weren't chasing a drunk because someone might get stressed out and cause an accident. [[It's not about not chasing, it's about catching him in another way.]] Contrary to appearances, this is a question that is sometimes really to be asked. That's the truth. What you're saying... I've met with different opinions. It's up to the police to decide. But, ladies and gentlemen, in traffic, a person in a state of drunkenness cannot move. The police would commit a felony without doing that. The police need to protect the citizen, and the way he's chasing it doesn't cause it. effects in the form of, I don't know, death, harm to the health of another person, that's a separate question already. The police know what to do in situations like this, they have experience, and they know how to run a chase like this. I'd still like to answer that question to the senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz:]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u70	Thank you. Senator Joseph the Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u71	Minister, Mr. Marshal, you can generally say yes. Traffic on the roads... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, there's a microphone... The roads come much slower than the cars. And I'm sure you have to take your hat off before... when it comes to patience, skill and driver behavior. I say this as a very much riding citizen. Of course, I am afraid of the consequences of adopting this law, because I once experienced an event on my own. Namely, the police were throwing provocations on the road, and I had to go ahead because I was going to the hospital with my father, and then, of course, I survived the arrests that could be described somewhere... There was a case in court, and I think it was one, as I was told after the case was concluded, of three, four cases which ended positively for me. I am very afraid of the consequences of adopting this law because I see a very strong media motivation in it. The media can multiply an event, as if by sticking something into our consciousness, something that happened somewhere in our emotions, and it's stuck in the memory of the whole nation. And then everyone says, "It's punishing." Well, I'm not gonna say hang it because it's not here. I think so. That's my personal feeling. That this bill is a little weakly motivated. We can make a bill about every case, announce it, and then enforce it. However, it seems to me that only a certain instruction for those who make arrests would be enough here to make them do it a little differently. Therefore, I do not believe that we should adopt a law that gives such restrictive tools. With this experience on my own, I'm very afraid of what might happen. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Senator, but there was no question. I don't know if the Minister can answer...]] In view of such a weak justification, do we need to adopt such a restrictive law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u72	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Well, I have to say that this bill, contrary to appearances, is not particularly media. If I appear anywhere in the media, it is mainly because of the National Council of Courts and the draft law in this case. Well, then it's really hard to get past... We defend this because we think our proposals are right. And in this case, the media, which I regret a little bit... In the previous question, there was talk of educating the public, about signaling that punishment in the event of vat extortion could be far-reaching. The media talked more about this than in the case of these regulations, which I regret a bit. Of course, I'm not responsible for the roads. It is possible that the Minister of Infrastructure would have to answer that question. In the event of this situation, Senator, I understand he's managed to defend himself somehow. As I understand it, it was a state of higher necessity, so it's as if he's excavated, he's not held responsible, he didn't commit a crime. I think that's how it happened. One more thing. About that restriction. If we're talking about restrictions at all, it's a restriction to a limited extent. It's only about two recipes. In one case, the point is that instead of a misdemeanor, it will be a crime, and in the other case, in specific situations involving accidents that have far-reaching consequences, it will not be 9 months, it will only be 2 years. In my opinion, there are many other good proposals in this regulation. We're focusing attention. only on this restriction, and it's here, for example. a provision that, if there is evidence, the court collects, collects material, listens to witnesses and the person concerned is accused of committing a crime of this kind falling within the scope of this regulation... Today, the court will not only be obliged to collect data from the National Criminal Register, but also from police records, driver and vehicle records. This is very important. I'm gonna go back to this Prague accident again. The courts did not know that the person who stood before them was a road pirate because there was no obligation to collect data from police records, data on criminal points, offences, administrative decisions withdrawing powers. Maybe I'll stop there. I don't know if there'll be any more questions, Mr. Marshal... [[They will, they will.]] They will, yes. Art. 180a is pretty interesting. I explained it at the committee meeting. When Art. 180a, which here... We are under attack for the mandatory ban on driving, if Art. 180a... when this law of the Penal Code, art. 180a, is that an option? Someone, for example. It exceeds 50 km in built-up terrain. He's entitled to three months, but he's moving on. And he's stopped by the police twice. This period is then extended by another 3 months, up to 6 months. But he's still taunting us, making fun of everything and driving on. He shall be detained for the third time and an administrative decision shall be taken to withdraw his entitlement. He goes on and on and on. It is stopped for the fourth time and only then is the article involved. 180a. Why? Because he broke the administrative decision. Then the court, in accordance with today's regulation, may, but it does not have to, declare as a criminal measure, I repeat: as a criminal measure, ban on driving. In 2015, there were 1400 such cases. In four cases, the court ruled as a criminal measure against driving. Is that fair? I give an example, I know, maybe it's scratched, but he shows what we're dealing with. This system isn't good. And I'm giving this example, by the way, to answer the senator's question, that it's not just about these restrictions, it's about filling the gaps. In my opinion, these regulations fill the gaps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u74	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, Minister, and this is about an incident in the constituency of Marshal Borusewicz. Namely in Sopot years ago, some time ago was the story of a person who invaded Monte Street Cassino and beat up over 20 people. At the moment, I think what happened to this person is that she practically avoided some kind of punishment, well, it certainly upsets the public, because these mechanisms are simply not understandable to the public. All the more so if we hear about terrorist attacks involving a car crashing into a crowd of people. And this context additionally influences the assessment of this act. And my question goes this way... Well, we're talking about people who were abused or drugged... And what in a case like the Sopot accident I was talking about when this person, supposedly, as the experts claim, was just insane at the time of such an act? It's not like it's an isolated accident. We know the aggression on Polish roads, what can happen when someone takes the road or... and what it can cause later. And this sort of thing... Is the Ministry thinking about any solutions in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u76	There you go. Solutions for insanity, especially in Sopot... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: If he is insane, then...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Well, I don't know this situation...]] [[A man insane...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's not in your district, is it? Good. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, you're ironic, but some people have just been hurt.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm not ironic, I just think it's unreasonable to tie my name to this case. [[But I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. I was just saying that in your district, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[...but I didn't... so if you'll excuse me...]] [[Voice from the hall: Luckily the marshal wasn't there.]] You're welcome, Minister. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u77	It's hard for me to relate to the incident, because I don't really know which event we're talking about, and I'm gonna be honest, I'm sorry... And even if I did, I'd honestly say that... if I did, I wouldn't be in a position either, because, if I was in a court of justice, I have to refrain from commenting on specific situations, so that I don't put any pressure on myself, because if the case is in court or even in the prosecutor's office, then we're not allowed to speak. If it had happened, as I said, it would be hypothetical. The fact that we are dealing with a person who is insane, then, of course, such a person will not be held liable. [[Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u78	Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u79	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, one more question about the article. 178b. Well, it's often the case that we have a word against the word in traffic cases. It's just that. The driver says one thing: the cops, usually the two of us, from patrol, say something different. And the practice of the courts is that the courts agree with the police. And now you're doing an article... which means it's an old offense, but now it's moved much higher, to the level of crime, and here we can still have a word against the word. 'Cause I don't think it's like in all the police cars... I mean, not the police cars, but unmarked police vehicles, there's a device that records the course of events. Because if that were the case, if material evidence could be used, I could understand it. Here we will deal with cases transferred from the criminal code, but it will already be serious crimes, which will affect not only the issues, I would say, typically penalizing, that is prison punishment, etc., but also the future career of a given man, his professional capacity. Did you see this coming? How will this work in practice? Because this is a new crime. There is no case law in this regard. It's just gonna take shape. The second question is a bit lighter, because when it comes to art. 178b, then we'll explain it later. Those who approve him, who vote for him, will explain themselves. Well, Minister, I'm sure you're used to this bill. Well, she's kind of a resort kid, a pampered kid. That's good, very good, we value such commitment, but please note that she is not perfect. Let's take art. 244, where only punishment really changes. So far, it's been for these crimes. I am about to tell you for which imprisonment could be ordered for up to 3 years, and in this law it is dealt with much harsher: from 3 months to 5 years. Yeah, but for what? I could understand that if this bill was just about traffic. When can such punishment be decreed? When the person concerned fails to comply with the judicial driving ban. Well, that's clear, it's within the scope of this bill. But this also applies to the prohibition of access to gaming centres and participation in gambling, admission to a mass event, taking up a position, etc. What did those poor poker players do? I'm talking about gamblers. That the state, by tightening the traffic penalties, also sharpens the penalties to them? This is some sort of inconsistency. Well, I don't know if I'm making myself clear. I think it's bright. And already there's a coincidence for me in these two articles. I'll read them carefully, Minister, so everyone knows what's going on. Art. 129i was used to determine the amount of alcohol in the body based on blood and urine tests. In the new sound, only blood is mentioned. Perhaps urine tests are no longer used, maybe they are out of focus. Okay, that's fine. But in the article. 129k is a record that says that these persons have the right to require the road traffic control authority to carry out a attention - blood or urine tests to determine the amount of alcohol in the body or the presence of a substance similar to alcohol. The link between the two parts of this alternative is true. That means we're not gonna test the alcohol content in the urine, but we're gonna give these people the right to ask them to do it. Is that consistent? I'm talking about the coincidence of these two articles.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u80	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u81	Well, the world is developing, ladies and gentlemen. The research that used to be carried out is no longer conducted today, which is why we're cleaning this whole system. Today, in the case of alcohol, all these tests are not used, and this is not examined as it was some years ago, but in the case of drugs, narcotics, as much as possible. This is the method of testing whether or not there were drugs in the body. In the case of alcohol there is no need, because today modern methods are used. That's the first line. There is no inconsistency in these rules, at least in my opinion. About the article. 244 then I will remind you of the sound of the article. 42 §1a according to our proposal: The court shall rule against the driving of any motor vehicle in the event of a conviction for the offence referred to in... And here, in point 2, it shall read: Art. 244 if the act of the perpetrator was not to comply with the ban on driving. These are situations that, in my opinion, authorize and even oblige us to supplement the system with such regulations. In the case of Article. 180a I've already talked about these situations, these four-time detentions. If a person doesn't really do anything to himself by taking her driver's license, even by administrative decision, and violates that prohibition, a certain penalty is applied. In my opinion, the fact that a court of law forbids to conduct instead of a court of law is as fair as possible and I have tried to explain it by talking about 4 detentions in specific cases. Art. 178b. Because it's a crime. I say once again, which is, from a social point of view, particularly harmful. It is about the danger of every traffic participant and not only. Many people are killed because someone is fleeing and being chased, and often people are killed or severely injured. In the case of Article. In turn, there is a breach of the ban as a criminal measure. Ladies and gentlemen, the court finds that you are not allowed to do this, and you are consciously doing it. In my opinion, the regulation we propose is as fair as possible. Of course, you can create such flexible conditions to say that, for example. When you break the penalty, I don't know, for the ninth or tenth time... But we assume that since there's been a ruling once and someone hasn't followed it in the case of traffic... Why should we not apply a mandatory ban on driving all vehicles if this act was not to comply with the ban on driving? I think that's consistent with the idea of justice. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u83	I'm sorry, Minister, but I'm going to ask you again after all, but maybe I'll rephrase the question differently. We're in art. 244. Why, while increasing penalties for failing to comply with the driving ban, do you also increase penalties for those who do not comply with the ban on access to gambling centres? This is an example, there listed much more items. Either you have to separate it or you have to separate it somehow. I don't know if that's clear. We are talking about traffic issues, we are rightly tightening penalties, but by the way, we are picking on, sorry for the expression, completely different crimes, in a completely different area. It's an art. 244. Here you have so cleverly escaped from this question of my blood or urine test. Again. You're giving us the opportunity to request a urine test. This is of course minor, but the bill should be clean, it should not give birth to such nonsense, because it is meaningless to me that you give the right to request blood and urine testing, while excluding such examination in another article. It's just not gonna be a test, it's just gonna be a blood test. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a coherence, then you can demand both. I understand that a lawyer doesn't need to be explained.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u84	Thank you very much. [[And the drug addict, and the one who drank. It's harder than that.]] Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u85	First, the question of tightening the article. 244. During the committee work, we explained why we were raising from 3 to 5 years. Someone breaks, for example. an administrative decision. The difference between the penalty for this act and the penalty for breaking a criminal measure in our opinion should not be a year, the penalty should be fairer, fit in the system, this penalty should be met differently, it is a framework. The year difference in the case of penalties for breaking administrative decisions and for breaking the penalty measure in our view is too little, so we have increased the penalty to 5 years. In the case of Article. 244 can actually go to prison, Mr. Senator. It's a possibility. I don't know if I got it right, but I think that's what this was all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u86	Why are you entering other types of crime when regulating traffic-related matter? It's harder than that. Don't shoot it, Minister, it didn't work out, just leave it, because this bill is really necessary... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Good.]] ...just don't say things we won't accept here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. Do you want to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I have already answered, Mr Marshal.]] Thank you. Are they... [[There isn't.]] Oh, Mr. Senator... [[Me.]] [[Come on.]] I understand that the statement does not have to satisfy, and if it does not satisfy, of course I ask you to ask further questions. Right now, Senator Hare is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u88	Minister, such a provocative question. How long would it take for the police to eliminate... by applying the strict provisions of this law, to eliminate half of us operating here? Thank you. [[That's what I'm saying.]] [[Because we're drunk and drug addicts? Oh, come on.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I'm sorry because I didn't understand the senator's question.]] How long would it take for the police to eliminate... by strictly applying this bill, to eliminate half of us from these seats, from these places? [[Yes. That's what I was gonna say.]] [[That question remains in the vacuum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u89	Thank you very much. [[I'm the one who's gonna move the speech.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u90	Mr. Senator, well... [[Maybe I've got some sort of history, and from here...]] I think we've gone to too high a level of discussion... [[I think it's short.]] Maybe I can't keep up, because it's hard for me to answer that question. [[Perhaps you could clarify the question a little bit.]] I think that the senator, as a special person, can be said to have a mandate, a special position, because he is a representative of the nation, but he should follow the rules, so here... although each of us is involved in traffic and I don't think there's anybody in the courtroom who hasn't had a problem in the past. I had a problem too. I think we're reaching too deep here. We're going too far. These few situations, which I tried to draw at the beginning, were so bright that it seems that this regulation is good. To answer what the senator said, I thought I was right. Like I said, breaking a criminal is a problem. Where this criminal measure concerns whether driving a vehicle or any other circumstance referred to in Article. 244, I think this regulation is fair, it's fair. [[But that's what the penal code is for.]] Of course, you can take a different point of view, but I think I've already explained that. Maybe we didn't fully understand each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u91	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you again very much for your comments, Mr Marshal, for your kindness. I hope, however, that you will support these regulations. Thank you very much.]] [[Not in this form.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If I do not have time to discuss a few issues, I already reserve an additional 5 minutes, because the problem is very serious, very extensive. For example, Minister, I would like to ask the Minister for reflection, for deep reflection, because it is still time to consider, to consider, the amendments that have been tabled and which are sustained within certain doubts not only by the Senators of the Civic Platform. I'm asking you to reflect. I will start with general issues that are directly relevant here. The Minister spoke a lot, but unfortunately he didn't practically convince... Pretty few points convinced me. Indeed, not in 4 and 5 laws we amend: criminal code, criminal code, criminal code of conduct, traffic law and criminal code of conduct. And as for that, it's okay. Of course, we agree, Minister, on matters that you have spoken very widely about, which no one is questioning, namely that the courts should have proper information on the indication that they should use techniques... It is right here that Senator Czerwinski's doubts that if we withdraw from urinalysis, we examine only blood, then consistently... etc. But you have not responded to the serious allegations, or, in fact, the amendments tabled by the majority of the committee, which are very important. There's a lot of them, and I have two more. I don't know where to start, because there's actually a lot of that. Maybe I'll start with you, so to speak, leitmotiv: punishment is to be fair. Of course, but what does fair punishment mean? I do not wish to contest, Minister, the theory of severe punishment, so to speak, as if general prevention, or deterrent punishment. I don't want to question that. I assume that's the case, and here may be my acceptance and consent. However, a just penalty is primarily a penalty for which the principles of the judicial dimension of the penalty are applied, i.e. all the conditions concerning the extent of the penalty, the degree of guilt, and thus the contribution of the victim, the way of life before the crime is committed, the manner of behaviour after the crime, mediation with the victim. After all, this is also what you pointed out in your previous term: the role of the victim in cases. We were creating a fund. We remember that. The victim protection fund and we've allowed the prosecutor to initiate appropriate proceedings before, so that the victim doesn't wait for the trial to end, etc. What's the role of the victim here? And I will say, Minister, as a practice, that very often I have happened in the case of road matters, in which we are dealing with the perpetrators often well placed, in which we are dealing... I've had a lot of cases like this that the baby was trespassing, that obviously... But the principle of limited trust should be applied, that is, it was small, but it was. There was even, as we have here, 0.52 promila, which was above, of course, the issue of laboratory error, etc... After all, we know that there are 0.8 promila in Europe. So it's a question of the influence of this alcohol. And what situation do we have? The baby ran in. There's a minimum alcohol content that didn't have in some situations... It is a theory that the alcohol content of 0,5 and 1 promila often does not even reduce psychomotor abilities, these are all individual issues, but therefore 0,8 Promila is often in Europe. And what do I want to say? Hurt... Because I remember two of those cases. A girl, a very serious operation that no one could do here, which, of course, means insurance would only pay for routine surgery. And a man says, "I'll find a clinic in Switzerland, I'll pay." He made a deal with the victim and they're asking for a suspension of the sentence. The victim very often wants to suspend the execution of the sentence, and in this situation we have a limitation of the judicial dimension of the penalty and there is a guillotine: 2 years. Unfortunately, a wealthy man who has to go to prison loses his motivation to pay, sometimes very much money, in addition to insurance, to a victim. And I've known a lot of these situations. Okay, I'm gonna stress this. The victim wants to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I talked about it, about softening...]] [[Voice from the room: Extraordinary relaxation of punishment.]] No, there's no such thing here. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I said, yes... Art. 60 §2 in such a situation. I was talking about that.]] [[Voice from the room: Extraordinary relaxation of punishment.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I was talking about it.]] Here... If there's a guideline that the lower limit is 2 years, it's an extraordinary relaxation, as I recall. Perhaps I've already left the knowledge of the rules, but it's about lowering the lower threshold. But this is a situation where extraordinary relaxation is applied in a very extraordinary way, and that is the principle. What I'm trying to say is that in a social sense, if the public doesn't know the situation, it's like this: he ran over a child and has a suspension. But you need to know the individual situation. That is the fair dimension of the penalty, the knowledge of the situation and the genuine concern for the victim, especially in the case of road accidents. And that should be the most important thing. This is a fair punishment. The Supreme Court says so, Mr. Minister: "Super radicalism sometimes has different effects from what it intended, especially if it is accompanied by an unjustified limitation of the judicial dimension of punishment or punishment. The designer loses sight of it. This, of course, concerns this amendment. That the framework for criminal sanctions must be defined in such a way as to enable the courts to exercise justice primarily in the area of criminal law On the individualisation of the penalty and taking into account the degree of guilt. The degree of fault in road matters is very important, because there is a gross violation of traffic rules, and sometimes there is a minimal infringement. And there's a contribution, often in 90%, to the victim who's been hit by a drunk, but the driver hasn't noticed him and he's convicted. Plus, from the day before, he had something left in his blood, and he was convinced that he was fine. Such situations happen in practice. The Supreme Court goes on to say: "It is the judge, as the best known subject of the event and with the fullest knowledge of the perpetrator, who is obliged to individualise the penalty. This assumption contradicts the formula of the proposed rules. I absolutely agree with this wording of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court pointed out that I quote here the judgment of 20 March 2014 in Case III KK 461/13, the necessity of maintaining the link between the scope of the ban and the type of vehicle that the perpetrator was driving. This, of course, also applies to fair punishment, but this is also the issue that the senator, Counselor Silence, spoke about, that there can be no sanctions against driving without, so to speak, individualisation, division into different types of technical means; well, for example, this example of driving an airplane or a bicycle was mentioned. The Supreme Bar Council also spoke on this subject. Let me quote: "Incomprehensible is the differentiation of drivers fleeing road control depending on the vehicle in pursuit. Similarly, it is incomprehensible to prohibit the driving of any vehicle What am I talking about right now? In the case of criminality for this act. A similar problem was signalled Let's remember: here in the Senate In the case of driving after drinking alcohol... [[A bike.]] ...e.g. by bicycle when any normative vehicle was originally prohibited. This solution was adopted negatively and ultimately, as a non-compliant solution, was eliminated from the legal system. We remember: cyclists sat down and were banned from driving. We've been through this before. [[The cars were picking up.]] Yes. Well, you need some rationalism. I'm asking, Minister... In general, I am not questioning, as I said, the theory of tightening penalties. But please be open to rational amendments proposed by practitioners, lawyers and the Supreme Court, which is, after all, an institution conducting general educational supervision. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I've got... How about five more minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u93	You want five more minutes, but now I can't give you five more minutes. [[Oh, I see. I'll have another five minutes.]] Okay, we're gonna write you down. Thank you very much. And, sir, Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The aim of the proposed regulation is to increase road safety. That's right. This is a very important goal, because we still have a lot to do in Poland. I'll give you some data. In 1991 7 000 901 people were killed on Polish roads. In 1991 the downward trend was until 2015, when 2 000 946 people died on Polish roads. Look at the numbers of 7,000 901 people and 2,000 946 people in 2015. In 1990 there were 6 million 800 000 motor vehicles registered in Poland, currently there are about 26 million. Notice how many more cars we have on the roads, how the roads have changed. Despite this growth, this trend is significant and can be seen. Is that okay? Is that getting better? It is enough to compare it with other European countries. The Minister gave an example of how many people die in road accidents in Poland, how many abroad. I'll give you another example. What it looks like when it comes to fatal accidents per 100,000 inhabitants. In 1991, about 20 people per 100,000 inhabitants were killed by the number of 7 000 901 people. Currently in Poland, according to 2015 data, about 8 people per 100,000 inhabitants are killed. But in European countries, such as Germany, France, Great Britain, 4 out of 100,000 people are killed. So we still have a lot of catching up to do. Therefore, of course, something needs to be done to improve it. The trend is good, but you have to keep it. Unfortunately, in 2016, for the first time, the trend turned and there were more road fatalities than in 2015. Something's got to be done about it. What can we do now? Of course, we can change legislation, adjust it, but above all, we must remember prevention. I would like to say that for the next 3 years together with the police chief of the voivodship, I visited 35 powiats in Wielkopolska Voivodship three times in one year, next year and next year. We talked about safety, and mostly about road safety. And it was a great job we did. It's just a pity that the new Chief General, Mr. Maj, came in and called off that chief because the bill came in... The chief of traffic in my town started work before 1990 and had to retire You're poor. And unfortunately, the professionals I know personally are no longer practically working at the moment. What else can we do now? Of course, apart from the fact that you have to talk about prevention all the time, about harm, about not being able to sit behind the wheel after drinking alcohol, etc. You have to teach it all the time. Children need to be taught in kindergarten. It's important to talk about it in schools. And the law must, of course, be adapted to what it is. This law introduces new rules, tightens criminal sanctions and extends the limitation period for criminal offences. The Minister also referred to these offences here. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked you this. But I didn't get the answer. What is the limitation scale of offences. Well, in 2015 for 340 000 730 decisions, Mr. Minister mentioned this number. There were about one thousand, exactly one thousand 39, statute of limitations. I counted it, and that's 0.3% of the cases. Well, we have to talk about it, of course, but we can't just publicize the individual cases that always happen. We need to look comprehensively at what's changing. In order not to discuss all this, I will focus only on this new provision, the article. 178b. The point is to stop the vehicle immediately for inspection. Ladies and gentlemen, this article clearly states that it is necessary to stop immediately if the holder so requests. There is a whole range of people who are entitled to stop the vehicle in road traffic, although they must of course use sound and light signals. I gave an example: a woman drives through a forest area at night, drives up a car and starts blinking at her to stop. Ladies and gentlemen, there are so many different cases of violence that this woman will do the right thing if she doesn't stop and move on. Yeah, but then you have to get to the nearest built-up area and stop there somewhere so you can... Or you can call me if that's possible, and get in touch with whoever you need. Yeah, but fear is. This is especially about women, which is why I give such an example. Well, in that case, the rule is clear. There is no doubt: from 3 months to 5 years. Of course, then you can prove in court that it wasn't like that, and maybe you can get an acquittal. Either punishment or acquittal, there is no other possibility in this situation. And all you can do is feel sorry for people like that, and there could be more and more cases like that. As for social harm, I've already asked about the article. 178a: A person who is intoxicated or under the influence of narcotic drugs is driving a mechanical vehicle in land, water or air traffic shall be subject to a fine, a penalty for restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2. And here's the thing: someone's driving after alcohol, they've got a two-promil alcohol, but if he doesn't kill anybody, that's good, because he's only subject to less restrictions. If he kills someone, it's a whole other thing. And that is the disproportionateness of these rules. The same applies to Article. 180a, which really should be improved, especially when it comes to administrative penalties, so that it is not that someone pays... And I know a case like this. A man who has a B-category driver's license, but without a A-category, rides a motorcycle, says to me, "Two times I've been caught for 10 years, I've paid twice a 500-zlot ticket and I'm going on." And that's the kind of thing you'd have to... It's just that we're not changing it. So let's see what the restrictions are on these people, and what restrictions are on those who can do what I'm talking about. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I've got one more minute. Yes? My amendment, which I'm about to make, is going to... well, in the third amendment to Article. 1 is the provision that such a person is punishable by imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years. That's the ruthless record. You have already discussed in what cases It can be used, and it's definitely dangerous. This is a new provision that is just entering into force. Does it have to be so restrictive from the very beginning? Maybe life will show that if someone runs away from a vehicle that uses sound and light signals, they do it for a particular reason. Well, the senator was giving an example of a young man who took his father's car and was afraid to stop, and according to this rule he would be subject to these restrictions. If anybody shoots, it's a different rule. That's what we were talking about. It's something completely different. If someone's on the run, they have certain reasons. If he runs because he's wanted, if he gets caught, other laws will apply. Why should this recipe be so restrictive? Therefore, my amendment aims to make it the same as in the article. 178a, who speaks of the state of intoxication, and Article. 180a: He is liable to fine, punishes restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to 2 years old. And if someone commits another crime, they'll be punished by another law. That's the amendment I'm making. Thank you very much... Oh, one more thing. Minister, this amendment I am proposing is very important, very important. If she were accepted, we would like to vote for her because there are good provisions in this law. But if you do not accept this amendment, unfortunately we will not be able to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u95	Thank you, Senator. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz will now speak. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u96	I'm giving the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. There are good things in this bill. For example, the principle of downloading information from all registers But there are also bad things, bad things, which will have serious consequences. Well, I observe that the Ministry of Justice makes a selective code change in the criminal code, in breach of all the consistency of this code, as well as certain proportions of acts and penalties for these acts. 'Cause if a $25-year sentence was imposed on VAT fraud, 25-year-old prison... And the penalty of 25 years in prison in the penal code was murders, in principle murders, murders. So it's like you're breaking some principle of the internal code, the consistency of this code to create a situation of intimidation, fear, etc. The Minister says that the introduction of such a penalty is justified, and it is reasonable that this has resulted in an increase in VAT revenues. Minister, the increase in VAT revenue comes from here... Sorry, this increase is due to the fact that VAT refunds were made not, as always, in January and February 2017, only this was done in the last 2 months of last year. It was through this formal and technical procedure that you gained an increase in VAT revenue this year. And you can see that after the first quarter. So don't use that kind of argument and see what it looked like and looked like. The Ministry of Finance publishes data and has a system of information on this subject. The courts are here to judge and judge. If you're introducing the rule of ruthless arrest... Because since you're introducing the rule that for alcohol accidents with severe consequences, the bottom limit of the sentence is two years, it's clear that you're introducing it to make the arrest a ruthless arrest. So the court has to apply it. And I repeat, the court is to judge and judge. This is where you want the court to judge, and you're restricting the possibility of judging, which is weighing such situations. And yet every situation is different. This does not mean that you should not punish for such cases where someone has suffered a personal injury following an accident caused by a driver under the influence of alcohol or narcotics, but you are limiting the possibility of applying this penalty and individualising this penalty. And, Minister, you're putting in a new recipe that says you can convict for running away... Not for running away. For not stopping, you can convict the driver for up to 2 years. How many cases a year are there when the driver doesn't stop? A few tens of thousands? A few hundred thousand? At least a few tens of thousands, I think. Several tens of thousands of people will be convicted of this article. Drivers, be afraid. This is absolutely unacceptable. Unacceptable. I understand if someone is being detained and fleeing, then such a provision should be applied. But in a situation where someone doesn't stop, and then there's a word against a word, and in most cases the courts admit the police... And besides, there's two cops in every squad car, and the driver's alone. There's no recorder that'll let him defend himself, so he's in jail. He's convicted. There is no chance, there is no equal chance in a situation where, as he claims, he did not notice and went further. If he's running away and yet it can be documented Well, that's clear. You can... If he's speeding up, the police are chasing, and he's still speeding up, that's running away. But if a woman in an undeveloped area on the side road is afraid to stop because she doesn't know because she's afraid because she's listening on TV and reading... [[Dress-ups.]] ...and for that she's to be convicted, and for that she's to be brought to justice, that's unacceptable. Minister, this is unacceptable. It's not acceptable to me. You're gonna re-enact the prisons. Like there used to be a ruthless ban... It's not a ban, it's a ruthless prison sentence for moonshine. There's been a ruthless prison sentence for booby-braining. And in prison you could meet grandmothers and grandparents, 80-year-olds, because the court didn't have the opportunity to take into account how old these people were, what are the occupation habits that they had already moved into other times. This leads to the introduction of rules of punishment, but also to the limitation of the possibility for courts to judge, weigh and apply offences proportionate to those acts. So I, too, Minister, am appealing here for some reason. You have heard that not only do the opposition senators have reservations about this, but also lawyers, lawyers. They have the biggest reservations here. And I think the biggest reservations to the Ministry of Justice and the government will have drivers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. That was 10 minutes even. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u99	Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill presented concerns another amendment of the Penal Code, a matter which by its very nature is very sensitive and should be subject to as rare changes as possible and, if it is already subject to change, one which will actually lead to the achievement of the intended objective. In criminal law, from the time of the famous Cesare Beccaria, who wrote at the beginning of the 18th century a treaty that was the foundation of all criminal law practitioners, a treaty about crimes and punishments, there is a principle of humanitarianism and the principle that every perpetrator should be punished but restored to society, not excluded from it. That's the first rule. The second rule is that punishment should remain in proportion to blame. In the context of the discussions on this law, I would like to refer to those arguments which are quoted, the arguments of nature, so to speak, statistical. With statistics it's always a danger, because, as you say in a famous joke, if a neighbor beats his wife 10 times, and I never once, it turns out from the statistical average that each of us happens 5 times. But in the case of statistics you also have to remember that there is a difference between the so-called. correlation The existence of a specific phenomenon and a second phenomenon And a cause-effect relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, just because we point to a certain number of events does not mean an indication of the cause of these events. The fact that we point out that in Poland the number of fatal accidents is on average 2 times higher than in Western Europe does not mean that this is the result of the fact that we have defective regulation. Of course, the causes are most often of a different nature. One must remember the infrastructure, the roads, that there are many more motorways in the West, the collision-free solutions, that there are better cars there, and that in the event of an accident such a better car, necessarily, gives better protection and drivers, and passengers, etc. So that these are circumstances that are worth remembering as well. And it is not easy to apply the correlation between the number of accidents and the quality of the regulation. Therefore, with all due respect for those proposals which are being introduced here, aimed at eliminating the gaps that exist in the law, possibly tightening criminal sanctions for acts which are particularly reprehensible, I would appeal to the High House And I also wanted to convince the Minister, and I was hoping it would work. To take account of the small changes proposed by the Human Rights Committee. They concern the issue of courts ruling on the basis of a kind of automatic ban on any motor vehicle in the event of non-stop driving at the request of a qualified person who calls for sound and light signals. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this is too restrictive in my opinion, and second of all, it is actually involuntary. Well, the judge can't be some kind of vending machine that just repeats the contents of the bill. Yes, there was such a concept, especially once in the positivistic French law, that the judge is merely the mouth of the legislator. Well, let's not exaggerate, this concept all over the world is already being abandoned, and the courts are entrusted with the task of weighing individual cases individually, because otherwise we will achieve the opposite of what we are going to achieve. I don't think we want to lead society to feel sorry for the perpetrator and say: yes, this punishment is too severe, not justified. Because, ladies and gentlemen, with the public, when it comes to assessing criminal law, unfortunately, it is that society in general, until it touches a particular person who faces a court, has a very strict attitude, believes that it is necessary to punish, pursue and constitute a strict law. One of the professors of criminal law once said that if even in contemporary societies we could conduct a survey Whether to impose a wheel-breaking or flogging penalty on the market, preferably in front of some major church in the city, as it used to be, in the Middle Ages, would probably be for it. It is precisely the role of lawyers, the role of parliament, that is the strictness and desire to prosecute, which generally, as I say, dominates society until a specific member of this community touches the fact that he will act as the accused... Our role is that the law should act in such a way that there is no opposite situation, that then, in a particular case, when something like this affects someone in our community, whether family or acquaintances, there is no compassion and claim: indeed, the decreed prohibition of driving in a situation where a person does not stop, but his degree of rapture is negligible... this does not justify the use of such a severe criminal measure; for it is not a punishment, but a criminal measure. This may be the case. We have shown here various types of examples. And Senator Florek pointed them out, and I pointed them out. Therefore, in order to reconcile, on the one hand, this right tendency to punish for such acts, and inevitably, with the pursuit, on the other hand, not to lead, in extreme situations, to the fact that instead of accepting the criminal measure being imposed, we have proposed, as a committee, a kind of remedy. It will be a principle to rule on this prohibition unless, as a result of exceptional circumstances, the court considers that such a judgment is not necessary. This is a regulation that exists in a number of other laws, for example, in the provisions on redecisive, in which it is said that if a person committed an act in redecisive, then certain sharpenings are applied to the extent of the penalty, unless... And it's always that phrase, that door you leave to the court ruling in order to allow sanctions to be applied properly. This is the first case. The other thing is the one you were talking about, Senator Czerwinski. Ladies and gentlemen, as a practice, I can say and repeat after Mr. Senator Czerwinski that in practice we will have to deal with such a fight, with such a ring, with something on the basis of a word against a word. It means the word 2 cops, because they usually drive together against the word of the one accused of not stopping for control. Ladies and gentlemen, as a lawyer, I've never met, and I've defended in dozens of cases, including cases like this, so that the court doesn't believe policemen or former militiamen and gives faith to the defendant's words. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this is a practice, by the way, in my opinion it is reprehensible that it is possible to believe the testimony of a public officer, sometimes in an even absurd way, blindly, because only because this person is that officer. Not to the testimony of the accused, he met with a number of negative assessments within the framework of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Poland lost many cases because the courts believed in a completely uncritical way to policemen or policemen, not to those on the opposite side of the barrier, i.e. the accused, especially in cases where the abuse of power by public officials was involved. So that there is also a need to take into account the practical side of the rules in place. The second amendment we have proposed I call for its adoption; I think that we will persuade the Minister to accept it. It concerns the issue of the application of... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but...]] I'm sorry. [[Maybe another five minutes...]] Okay, well, if you don't mind, it's in the next part. Okay? [[Of course.]] It's a pardon. I'll be done for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u101	Thank you, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! At first I would like to congratulate you because in this specific opposition you have linked 2 pages, which usually speak a slightly different language. It turns out that where this life experience of senators, not necessarily lawyers, collides with some revolutionary and unfortunately not always reasonable ideas, these 2 sides of the political dispute, realizing that some solutions are not good, they can rise above this political division and beyond certain, unfortunately, sometimes political guidelines. I would like to refer to your way of arguing, because he is not that way of arguing, which I can take for granted by the Minister of Justice. The Lord gives extreme examples in order to refer them to a group that is very diverse and which in its mass is quite different from the examples you give. The escapes you're talking about, the arrests... Well, you're giving outrage among the public, but you have to say it's not normal. And now, in order to hit those who are the worst, you're proposing solutions that you know they're gonna hit not the worst ones, but the statistical ones. ♪ 'Cause the worst ♪ Once again, I'll remind you of your argument. These are the people who shoot the police. As soon as they're caught after a dozen kilometers, that's an example of you. They're gonna be the ones shooting at each other. And once again, I'm saying that none of these people will pay attention to whether you raise him the lower limit of the fine to three months, or wonder if he'll be able to drive motor vehicles later, because he knows he'll be in jail for something else for a dozen years. And the same is true when we think about this lower limit raised to 2 years. You are thus bound by the court... And this is a more general reflection, because many of your projects want this to happen, that the court is to be bound. In this way, you throw away the entire work of legal thought of outstanding disciplines as if you were throwing them in the trash. Because you also have to think that in this mass of people who get stopped after drinking alcohol, sometimes a very small amount of alcohol, most are people who do not act in redecisive, do not commit crime over and over again, they are also family fathers, decent people who happen... Anyone can get one of these. And now you're blocking any possibility of giving them a second chance. I don't think the skin is worth the trip, and you're not gonna reach... Even if you can achieve some minimum desired effect on a dozen people, in the whole courthouse... And it's also about giving people who accidentally got into conflict with the law, opportunities for improvement. You're taking this opportunity, and you're immediately penallizing it in a way that can have a negative effect on themselves and their families. I will return to an article that everyone here has talked about many times and the amendments that have been made at the committee meeting, despite you... They have received support from both the opposition and the ruling party. That's exactly what you want to do, gentlemen, regardless of the very large number of cases that shouldn't, and you know it. I'm going to be put here. Why am I talking about this? Because if you don't take into account our amendment on the fact that if someone doesn't stop, they automatically have to lose their driver's license because of the binding of these two articles, first of all, you're going to get married, 100%. ... there are a lot of situations where people don't stop, as colleagues said, out of fear, out of chance. I will remind you that not always, really not always you can see that you are followed by a car that has a sound signal and a light signal, which is the best example of which is the Prime Minister's accident. That's where all the cars were going. It's not quite settled, but I assume she was driving the way the witnesses testified, which means she was going on the beep and the sound and the light. And the man didn't notice and he turned. Can't you see it, not even that many? Yes, you can. And that's the best example that happens... And now you automatically want, first of all, to spanall it, and second of all, to tie it to an automatic driving ban, and all motor vehicles. Well, it's really so reckless that you've had opposition from both sides, and... I don't understand why even in such a small matter where we're above divisions, we all understand that, you don't even want to go back one step at a time. It is not understandable, unless it is true what the Minister has read from the Supreme Court's opinion that you increase these penalties only because of public applause. You said the Minister, after a very thorough analysis of the Supreme Court. That you're not doing this because of it. If not, show that you do not and withdraw at least to such a small extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u103	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna focus on the art right now. 178b, i.e. the one where it does not penetrate Here I'd like to complete my esteemed colleague's statement. Because criminalisation is in the code of offences, it only creates a new type of crime, i.e. There's some sort of convergence in crime. What's that gonna do, ladies and gentlemen? This will cause that, of course, with regard to statistics, we will have an increase in crime and an increase in detection. We're about to have an excellent, incredible detection of criminal offences, success to the hindrance, right away. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone can be a criminal. Whoever doesn't notice... Take a look at, for example, the observations of the National Judicial Council, which negatively evaluates the legal regulation provided for in Article. 178b criminal code. He claims that this provision, specifying the marks of the "law" and it is the judges who write "the forbidden act," uses the phrase "the driving continues," which is inconclusive and inconclusive. Repeat: inconclusive and inconclusive. According to the Council, the use of the mark should be considered rather than stopping the vehicle immediately and continuing to escape. That's what we were talking about here, that it's not really about running away, it's about not stopping, because if you run away, you have to show guilt, that I want to run away. And here it is enough that I did not really hear, because there is no form of involuntary guilt in this recipe. So I'm also unintentionally responding, right? A criminal... Each one of us becomes a criminal or a criminal. Come on. Here you didn't ask Senator Rabbit... Well, Minister, what does this mean for the councillors, for the Members, for the senators? That means the court is gonna sue the minimum sentence, which is a month, because he's up to two years old... he's gonna sue a month with parole and we're gonna lose our ticket, right? The court will apply the lowest sentence, month with conditional suspension, and we're losing our mandate. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Me too.]] Please? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Me too.]] Of course... Is that what this is about? I said, is that what this is about? Therefore, I am hoping for a very thorough analysis and deep reflection of the Minister, making alternative proposals. The first one to delete this provision at all, because the Supreme Court here reminds me that the designer does not see that the escape from the pursuit carried out by persons authorized to control traffic will fulfil the marks of the prohibited act specified not only in the article. 92 sq.m., but also in Art. 86, i.e. causing a risk, which gives rise to a ban on driving. So there is no impunity, Minister, in the current state of law. Then I ask: why do we want to introduce, identify a new crime that will pose a threat to everyone, especially those who have a public mandate? Therefore, if this is already to be a crime, I am making another request for two amendments. One thing is what the National Judicial Council says, it continues to replace it, so if it continues to escape, then it is... That's the change. It's about getting rid of that rule at all. And if there is going to be an escape, then... Besides, there are rules in the Penal Code in which the words "from 3 months" are replaced by "fines" or punishes restrictions on freedom. So if this is going to be a crime, which I think absolutely should not happen, then let it be so that it is not here, so to speak, a political instrument. Because this is unfortunately a very serious threat, where, as I said, unintentionally, or perhaps intentionally, what was said here, does not want to stop... [[Thank you, Senator.]] Because we hear about the theft of a police officer, there are more and more cases like this and you have to fight it, Minister, so that there are no such situations, these disguises, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u105	Thank you, Senator. [[This poses a real threat. Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, I just want to finish my speech in a few sentences. Namely, I would also call for this second amendment proposed by the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions to be taken into account, in a small way, but in my opinion very common sense, resulting from the fact that we take into account different situations of life, i.e. the introduction, when driving is prohibited, of the conclusion that this may be a ban on any motor vehicle or vehicle of a particular kind. For it should be possible for the court to choose which measure to apply, whether to apply a general prohibition, to prohibit the driving of all motor vehicles or only certain vehicles, let us give it to one-track vehicles or tractors, etc. This is justified by the fact that, at times, there is no need for such a strict ban on all motor vehicles, and it is sufficient to include a certain category of motor vehicles. We've been giving an example here, for example, of an airplane pilot. It doesn't make much sense to take away his ability to fly in a situation where he committed an act that was until recently a crime, and now it will be a crime, an act that didn't stop, not a plane, but a car. Therefore, it is necessary to leave the discretion of the court and a very common sense decision which would not lead to a situation, so to speak, even a humorous one, in which the right to fly will be denied to someone who has violated the rules on driving. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u107	Thank you, Senator. You're not making any adjustments? [[Please?]] Because you were talking about amendments. You're not making any amendments, are you? [[The amendment was tabled by the committee, so there's nothing to duplicate it.]] By the committee? Okay, thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Are you still reporting for the minister? Yes. For the record, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk presented his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Piotr Florek and Piotr Zientarski. The discussion is closed. The government representative, Minister, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, I thought I wasn't gonna do it again today, but I'd like to do it now because the Sejm's sitting is about to begin, there's a session of the Sejm, there's a vote, and I don't know if I'm gonna attend the committee. That is why I would now like to make a fair statement, although there will, of course, be representatives of the Justice Department at the committee meeting. We cannot agree with any of these proposals that have been made by you. It's a pity this discussion went in such a little academic direction. Some examples were given... Well, I've been accused of being very sketchy in one direction, but some of your senators have also been very sketchy, but the other way, because you've been presenting certain situations. What I'm trying to say is that by listening to this for these three hours, it seems like the police are just standing at night, in the woods, lurking at our citizens... [[Isn't that the way it is sometimes?]] ...he's chasing them in unmarked police cars, and we're guarding not only to uphold the law, but also to maximum sharpen them and to tease the citizen as much as possible. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about stress situations here. I'm talking about something again. "What welcomes the overwhelming majority of the population, we are convinced that the vast majority. Because people are just scared. They're afraid of pirates. Someone might ask who in this academic discussion we're really defending. [[But we have a qualification.]] The one who doesn't drink a little, not some trace amounts of alcohol? These are those who are intoxicated. .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... alcohol promila They're either using drugs or other drugs. After all, these are particularly dangerous road thugs and you know it very well. We have an academic discussion about such people. These aren't questions of trace amounts of alcohol. This is about a bad guy who just drinks alcohol, sits behind the wheel and kills. [[Not necessarily.]] This is a potential killer. I'm sorry I'm talking a little harder now, in the first part maybe a little softer, but you're making me feel like I'm not the killer, but the road pirate... Yeah, well, it's about the structure of the crime. I would like to say that when it comes to raising this sentence to two years, this lower dimension, I was talking about safety valves. Well, there are these vents in absolutely extraordinary situations. What? The senator here told me I didn't talk about it. I was talking about it. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. 60, which speaks of an extraordinary relief of punishment. Just when he was trying to fix it, he helped, if there was an accident victim... I don't know, it's some kind of emergency situation that's set out in the regulations. Well, art. 60. Besides, I explained it once before at the committee meeting. We move to the institution of conditional suspension of the execution of the sentence and this person may take place under the conditions of liberty or may apply the Article. 37a.: If the law provides for a sentence of imprisonment of up to 8 years, a fine or a sentence of limitation of liberty may be imposed instead. May I? Yes, you can. These are safety valves possible in the situation we're talking about here. But as a rule, such a person should be in prison. This is my conviction, and I believe that the vast majority of society. And I'm not saying... This is not populism, this is a rational approach to protecting our citizens. And let's have a discussion in this direction. You say there will be a question of evidence whether there was a forest, dark, stopped or stopped... Isn't there an evidence issue today? I mean, it's art. 92 in §2 says exactly so: "Who, in order to avoid inspection, does not comply with the signal of a person authorized to control the traffic, ordering the vehicle to be stopped, is punishable by arrest or fine.' Is there no procedure in this regard? What changes in this regard? One thing that's... Let's not scare the public that someone won't stop... that we're peddling this behavior and introducing a new type of crime into the criminal code. That's not true. If someone doesn't stop and run, there's a chase, there's a chase after that person. There are light signals, sound signals. And he's running away. And then it's not just that he didn't stop... The kind of situation he hasn't stopped, every year he's... Oh, this is quite an interesting phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal. In 2013, there were 17 000 cases where they did not stop; in 2014 19 000; in 2015 23 000. That's crazy! But it's not just about situations like this, it's just part of the situation of those cases that I'm talking about: someone doesn't stop, but also runs away from the police, goes into town, poses a crazy danger for people who move there. And we can try to bet him and play it... I think it's art. 163 says there's a threat... 164, yes, it concerns direct danger. And we can have fun like this, but often the courts are proving to be the losers. Well, they're losing... I mean, it's not the courts that lose, it's the D.A.'s evidence that loses if it's a weapon. a line that has actually been committed here. Because it's often impossible to prove, it's insanely difficult in terms of evidence. And that person is responsible for the offense. How many more years do we have to play with this? How much? This point of evidence is already being applied today, in conjunction with the article. 92 counts of misdemeanor. What are we changing? We're just changing the fact that it's a crime. 'Cause not only does this guy not stop, he's running away, he's driving into town, he's a crazy danger to everyone. And one thing, by the way. More faith, ladies and gentlemen, in the courts. Yeah, more faith in the courts. After all, you're pressing charges against us, and I think that blade would have to be pointed at someone else today. If someone is unjust and, as you say, the courts believe the police in evidence, who should the state blame? To Wójcik's? To Minister Ziobra? Who? If you're going to court, you're gonna have to resent it. Although I believe that video recorders are very often used in such situations, and at that time there is no problem with these matters in the sense of evidence. I know that... I'm sorry we've been having this discussion for so long, but there was a lot of doubt on your part. And I could talk more here, but I don't want to... Anyway, Mr. Marshal, as far as the amendments are concerned, we cannot accept them as a government side. Thank you again for all your comments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u109	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that we will hold a vote on the bill under consideration at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Penal Code and the Law on Assistance to Persons with Child Support. The text of the Act is contained in print No 451, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 451 A and 451 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Alexander Swede, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which worked on 5 April to amend the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on the Assistance of Persons with Child Support. The aim of the amendment is to introduce provisions to facilitate the implementation of the State's constitutional obligation to provide care to disabled persons, children and other persons who are unable to meet their material needs. The changes in criminal law relating to the non-alination offence are intended to increase the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance benefits from persons who are failing to do so. How great is this phenomenon? According to the latest data, maintenance arrears from the Alimentation Fund have already exceeded PLN 10 billion and only PLN 1.5 billion was paid in 2015, while reimbursement from debtors is estimated at PLN 0.2 billion. This illustrates the scale of the problem. The proposed amendment, which is from the Government's submission, is based on the amendment of a single provision. 209 criminal code. Its previous record is: "A person who persistently evades the enforcement of the obligation of care imposed on him by law or judicial decision by failing to maintain a loved one or another and thereby exposes him or her to the inability to satisfy the basic needs of her life shall be fined, punishable by a limitation of liberty or imprisonment up to 2 years old. Its previous wording has caused numerous interpretational difficulties related to different assessments of persistence, as well as the obligation to prove the relationship between persistent failure to provide maintenance and exposure to the inability to meet basic living needs. Therefore, in the proposed amendment, the main criterion which strengthens the criminal liability expressed in Article. 1a, it has become so-called. exposure to inability to meet basic life needs. The sign of stubbornness has been abandoned. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 209 §1 in the proposed wording shall criminalise an act consisting of a breach of the maintenance obligation laid down in a judicial decision, a settlement concluded before a court or another body or other agreement, in the event that the total amount of arrears is equivalent to at least 3 periodic benefits or if the delay of a non-periodic benefit is 3 months. The proposal also introduces 2 new provisions which avoid the perpetrator's penalty, but only if, within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of the first interview as a suspect, the debtor pays off all outstanding maintenance In both the preparatory proceedings, the prosecutor will be obliged to cancel the proceedings and the proceedings before the court, because it will be possible for the court to waive the penalty, unless the fault of the perpetrator and the high level of social harm to the act speak against it. The project is a government submission, and at the meeting of the joint committees the Ministry of Justice was represented by Deputy Minister Michał Wójcik, who in his speech stressed that the proposed change would have a very positive impact on the collection of maintenance. He presented the scale of the phenomenon and statistics on current low downloadability, including for other countries. In the course of a one and a half-hour discussion, amendments were tabled and the proposal was made as far as possible, Senator Pociej, to adopt a law without amendments, which was adopted by the joint committees by 10:3 votes, with 4 senators abstentions. A minority request has also been submitted. On behalf of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I request that the proposed amendment to the Law be adopted, the Criminal Code and the Law on the Assistance of people entitled to maintenance without amendments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u111	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Robert Mątkow, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to correct. Minority requests were submitted by colleagues from the committee, which I am vice president of. Mr. Senator Pociej and Mr. Senator Rulewski. They're not here today, but they asked me to inform you that they've made such a request from a minority, which I'm doing here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u113	At present, senators can report from an ongoing location... [[And a report from the family committee.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Yes. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Because Senator Stanisław Szwed is very precise... [[Alexander.]] Alexander Swede. I'm sorry. I will try not to repeat certain things, except in the first two sentences in which I highlight the purpose of amending the law, as also presented by the Minister present at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. This objective is to improve the efficiency of the enforcement by persons entitled to alimony from intentionally deviating from their payment of obliged persons. The amendment aims to eliminate the existing faults of the obliged person, in the form of persistence and the inability to satisfy the basic living needs, in favour of a clear criterion equivalent to 3 periodic benefits or a delay in payment of the outstanding benefit of at least 3 months. The Minister's statement and the discussion highlighted the seriousness of the problem and the number of people It concerns. I would therefore like to quote some data. In 2015, the maintenance obligation was declared in more than 51 thousand cases and an agreement was concluded in 18 thousand cases. Between 2013 and 2015 59 and 65 thousand cases for the execution of unpaid alimony were received by the bailiffs, so the number is huge. But the remaining cases they're doing with the bailiffs are over 600,000 cases. So it's a huge number of cases, and it's a huge amount of money, as you can see. In 2015, in which the maintenance fund belonged, almost PLN 1.5 billion was paid from the state budget for persons who do not provide maintenance. During the discussion, attention was also drawn to the fact that the problem is, as I said, very wide. It is also connected with our culture, which is moving in such a direction that relationships, including marriage, are getting weaker. Therefore, as a result of divorces, separations, break-ups of partnerships, alimony is increasingly needed. Indeed, the divorce rate has increased by almost 100% over 30 years. In this regard, of course, the courts have more and more responsibilities as regards the granting of alimony and subsequent amendments, the raising of alimony or the lowering of alimony. There is also the issue of alimony collection and the effectiveness of this is indeed very low. Hence, during the one-and-a-half-hour discussion, there was an understanding for this amendment, but at the same time emphasising that we cannot stop at it, because not only from changing the criminal rule, which is now actually simpler and will lead to an easier cause for a person who does not put on the maintenance of his child or, what must also be emphasized, his parents... Because it doesn't just seem like parents' obligations to their children, but it's also going to be more and more frequent. • children towards old parents, as well as the obligations of other obliged persons, because this is a provision that applies to all such situations. Well, lately, I've met in my office with such a case that a person obliged to pay alimony is an elderly person who has a very low pension. She learned about her grandson's existence quite recently, the grandson is 6 years old, but she was not informed about him. As a result of a long judicial procedure, she realized that she was a grandmother, and now she is to pay child support because her son cannot pay child support because of disability. And she's surprised that from a very low retirement, these alimony payments are deducted. The situation here, of course, is simple, because the bailiff has great ease in obtaining this money from benefits paid by the Social Security Office. But what is worth remembering is that this recipe will apply to different people, so not only to a situation that we often think is a father who doesn't want to put on child support, but also to the situation that we have, which sometimes have difficulty putting it down. In view of demographic change, this problem will become more frequent. So here, on the one hand, it is agreed that the need, also in the criminal sphere, is clearer, clearer, easier to apply rules that would mobilise... And here's the conviction of the Ministry of Justice and generally the committee. As they all voted in favour of this law, it will have positive effects. We asked at the committee meeting, among others. about the expected outcome of these rules. Because it'll be easier in this situation... the court will be required to apply the penalty if the obliged person doesn't pay alimony, jail sentence or electronic supervision for three months. The Ministry explained that, at the moment, as far as prison facilities are concerned, they are. But at the same time he hopes that the number of people led by court decisions in such cases, in connection with the new rules... that it will not be too large. Even the exact number has been given that this could be about 235 people a year, which would not really be such a huge increase. But it is assumed that this penalty will be executed mainly in the electronic surveillance system. To the senators' questions, whether those who execute in the courts punishments of deprivation or limitations of liberty, i.e. curators... whether these teams are prepared, answered that yes, these teams are prepared and there will be no difficulty with the execution of the penalty in such a form. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also the voice that this amendment, and I quote, is adding sugar to sweet tea, which means that we are occasionally updating... maybe not necessarily the rules in the penal code, but also the maintenance fund law, and the retribution of maintenance is not improving particularly, as a result of the fact that some people who are obliged to provide maintenance are not working, not necessarily because of their will, but because of the complicated situation, their age or health status. There was also a voice about the lack of compliance with the Law on Aid to People with Child Support. The amendment proposed by the Legislative Office is a minor amendment, it is a more correct expression, the committee adopted unanimously. The amendment to extend vacathio legis to 3 months was adopted by 4 votes to 3, with 1 abstention. This amendment was argued both that the judicial authorities should be prepared for this change, that it should not be introduced from the march and that it should give debtors a chance to raise funds so that they can pay up-to-date and overdue alimony. From this point of view, however, this is a rather serious change, and therefore there is an amendment to make the vacathio legis longer. As regards the amendment by Mr Jan Rulewski, which was discussed, the committee was against its introduction. And as far as the whole bill is concerned, as I said, all the senators voted in favour of introducing it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur... [[Senator Swede, right?]] ...on the Law amending the Penal Code on Penal Institutions. May I? [[You can, you can.]] Currently, more than 3,000 people are in prisons and prisons convicted of persistent alimony evasion. According to my records, 1.5 thousand people sentenced to imprisonment are not in prison because of the lack of a place. So the question arises as to whether deprivation of liberty is really fulfilling its role and whether it is a threat to people who are notoriously not paying alimony. In addition, those who are sentenced to imprisonment for non-payment of alimony are such a double burden on the state budget. Firstly, their arrears are paid by a maintenance fund financed by the State, i.e. taxpayers, and secondly, taxpayers bear the cost of keeping such a person in prison. Do you have any idea that this law will change this state of affairs and that you have done in this matter, e.g. Economic analysis or any research? [[That's a question for Senator Swede, isn't it?]] To the rapporteur. [[The voice from the room: But two are...]] [[Mr. Senator, I suggest...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u117	Please. [[...that a colleague of Alexander Swed, who has experience due to his professional work, would once take care of it, would answer first. I'd also like to answer...]] [[One more question, if you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal.]] Wait a minute. [[One more question, if you don't mind.]] I'm sorry, because there's been an unnecessary discussion. Mr. Senator, have a seat. Senator Swede will answer the question. Shortly, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u118	The second question is short. According to the data provided by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in the information on the implementation of the Law on Assistance to people entitled to maintenance in 2014, the effectiveness of the actions taken against maintenance debtors amounted to 8.3% and the total expenditure and benefits from the maintenance fund amounted to around PLN 1.5 billion and were 1,4% higher than the corresponding expenditure in 2013 I'm almost done. This means that many so-called. Alimentaries already have considerable debts that result from unfulfilled duties for many months or years. How does the legislator intend to solve the problem of these very large debts resulting from the multi-month avoidance of alimony payments?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u119	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Were these issues the subject of the committee's deliberations?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u120	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm going to address these two points. [[Were they the subject of the committee's deliberations?]] Here's what I'm gonna say. As regards the Legislative Commission and the Rule of Law Committee, the question of judgments was really raised at the meeting, the question of the fact that debtors are in custody, taking decisions, but in the context of the judgment... The Ministry was a supporter of electronic supervision above all. I think that this electronic supervision will be applied to a greater extent in the future. That's it. I think it's more specific to the ministry. As regards arrears, the maintenance fund, as I said in the report, only 1.5 billion were paid in 2015 and only 0.2 billion returned to the fund. Many aspects could be addressed in this respect. I will refer only to an amendment which primarily improves legal proceedings. So far, if there was an administrative procedure and a request was made by an administrative authority, and there were hundreds, even thousands of requests. This is the result of the Law on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance It was these actions that were resigned from office. Why? Because, on the one hand, there was a need to prove the signs of persistence and, on the other hand, the inability to meet the basic needs of life. If the parent who was taking care of the child and who had this benefit was reasonably wealthy there, it was a reason to believe that there was no risk of exposure to the child, I would say, the inability to satisfy the basic needs of life. Thus, such a course of action was terminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u121	Thank you very much. Is there anything else the senator wants to say? That's a short one, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u122	I'm just gonna make it short. This problem also occurred at the family committee meeting. The Ministry and the senators discussed this. This data is known to us. Data on such high arrears and on how many people do not contribute to maintenance, contrary to judgments of the courts, to the minor or to the elderly It is important to talk consistently about these different groups They are, in effect, mobilizing to change the law also in the criminal code, which will mobilise these people to put on their children. Moreover, there are situations where, as a result of this quite liberal law as it is now, parents of children are even dating alimony which they are not able to pay. For this reason, there are no consequences, and the advantage is that they then apply to the maintenance fund which pays them maintenance, and therefore these people receive State aid because of this situation. This amendment will indeed prevent such situations. That's the right thing to do. I will also say that this is a pro-family solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u123	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marcin Warchoł, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u124	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The effectiveness of child support is at a very low level, and all the numbers that have been given here speak for themselves. However, what else is the issue of alimony collection and what else is the issue of prosecution. These provisions concern mainly the improvement of the effectiveness of prosecution, both in the preparatory phase and in the court. We are introducing a new type of prohibited act in the form of evasion of maintenance obligations for three maintenance periods. This provision of three periods was introduced on the basis of the principle adopted in case law, for the Supreme Court has developed the principle that for the persistence referred to in the provision of Article. 209 §1 shall be considered to be nothing other than evasion for three periods from the maintenance obligation. At the same time, we eliminate the birthmark in the form of persistence and exposure to the inability to meet the basic needs of life. Resignation from these two marks, namely the persistence and inability to meet the basic needs of life, is a circumstance that will allow for fully transparent and objective rules for the prosecution of these crimes. At the same time, we introduce here two elements which are premium to the repentant, in colloquially speaking, the perpetrator, namely not subject to penalty at the stage of the preparatory procedure. The negative condition leads to the winding-up of the pre-trial procedure or the withdrawal of the sentence by the court. If the debtor pays within 30 days of making an explanation as a suspect, then he can count on this special privilege. So that this system is so designed that it doesn't fill the prisons. That's not what we're talking about. But make maintenance arrears real. You've been a parent all your life. You can stop being a husband or a wife, but you never stop being a parent. And this should be borne in mind. And there are known cases where this payment of small amounts sometimes allowed you to run away from responsibility. I'm not talking about such scandalous situations that my dad bought the kid a pizza and deducted it from his alimony. Such cases are known, but they absolutely do not deserve public acceptance. This is why we are filling a very important gap in the collection and prosecution of child support. Finally, I will remind you that in many other legal systems, e.g. in Germany or France, full objectivity is required. There are no discretionary criteria, as has been the case with us so far. I am talking about persistence or exposure to the inability to satisfy basic needs of life. There are no such elements in other legal systems. We were modeling. I'm not hiding it. On the German system and on the French system. These rules introduce full objectivity in this respect. So that the penalty is reduced in the basic type, from the previous basic type we make the type qualified, and we introduce these specific privileges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u125	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. And the question you'd like to ask is Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Of course, the amendment is as positive as possible and, as I have put it in the report, I support it, but I am referring to the article. 209 §3: If the victim has been granted an adequate family benefit or cash benefits paid in the event of failure to enforce maintenance, the prosecution of the offence referred to in §1 or §1a shall take place ex officio. And that's where I'd like to ask... Because I know from the practice of administrative proceedings that the competent administrative authority, which is, for example, the social assistance centre, where it grants the benefit, shall issue a decision granting the benefit from the Alimentation Fund, there is no obligation to inform law enforcement authorities that such benefit has been granted. So neither the D.A.'s office nor the court, well, they're basically not gonna find out directly from the body of social services. So how are we supposed to understand that the prosecution takes place out of office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u127	Thank you very much. And Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, as we have heard in the statements of the rapporteurs' senators and yours, this is the most appropriate course of action by the Ministry of Justice. But, as they say, the devil is in the details. I have a question concerning §4 and §5 cited just now in the article. 209 of the Penal Code on the concept of outstanding maintenance. What does the concept of "depreciated alimony'mean? Because it's very important. This doubt can have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the legislation in question. Are there also interest on late maintenance? In the case of multiannual non-payment of maintenance, the amount of such interest may be very significant. We should be a law which will be quite precise and the concept of "depreciated maintenance' is not entirely precise, and I would therefore like you to answer me whether this concept also includes interest due.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u129	Thank you very much. And Senator Alexander Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u130	Minister, I agree with your argument about the problem of non-alination, but, as you probably know, life is richer and every stick has two ends. I'd like to know if, like you're trying to solve the problem of non-alination in a simple way... It's easy, you can sharpen the penalties... You don't sharpen the penalty here, but you clarify things. It's a knife cut, it'll be clear. Is the resort working to any extent on regulations that could help fathers who often... We've had a picket here for many years... The case hasn't been solved, which I'm worried about for the last crew. For many, many months, we've had a picket of desperate fathers who, due to the negative actions of their mothers, have no opportunity to see their children. This problem is just as burdensome... It's a terrible problem for people who love their children and can't see them, and I'd like to know if Just like you decided to do here. You have plans to do something for those desperate people who lose their children's childhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u131	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u132	Thank you very much. I'm going to start by answering the first question about maintenance duties on the administrative side... to be precise, the notification obligations for non-alimentation to be fulfilled by the administrative authorities. They don't change here. The social obligation on the part of the administration, the social worker, still exists and, moreover, our legislation will bring absolute clarity here. In many interviews, administrative staff called to follow this situation complained that the elements in the form of persistence and the inability to meet the basic needs of life were so assessed that they did not know whether to inform law enforcement authorities or not. Now the situation is clear: 3 months does not pay and there is information to law enforcement. What's the D.A. gonna do about it? It's an art. The 10th Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides for the principle of legalism, will already be sufficiently settled, Mr. Marshal. Here we do not change anything, everything remains the same, but on the contrary, we help the authorities of the state administration in this case social workers, social workers, in carrying out their duties, will know when to inform and when not to inform. So far it has been so that some have informed, others have not informed, said that they will unnecessarily fill the prosecution with various kinds of notices, etc. Now there will be clear, clear rules. This is the first situation... And if they don't. And here I'm just a little bit beyond the senator's question, but it's worth saying that as part of some legal honesty, too. They may be in danger of Article. 231 §1, i.e. in connection with failure to comply with obligations, in this case exceeding powers. But of course it's a matter of guilt, subjective elements, etc., because there was a threat... I mean, at some point there was a discussion, if we didn't notify, we'd be putting ourselves at risk of chasing the art. 231. It's not that simple. Nobody's gonna go after, I'm gonna say, social workers for not informing them about this duty in time. It's like chasing civil servants for not doing official, official, service, etc. Here the wrap element, subjective element is absolutely necessary and subjective party to this type of prohibited act from the article. 231 §1 absolutely excludes any automation. So that the situation here is, I would say, clear. As far as Senator Grabowski's second question is concerned, it concerned interest for delay. Late interest is obviously not taken into account here, but the issue of evasion is left behind. Namely, the evasion, as has been pointed out in the caselaw many times, is the failure of the perpetrator to fulfil his obligation, but one which, as rightly pointed out, among other things. The Supreme Court is even enforceable. Here, despite some concerns, we do not want to prosecute the perpetrators who, for objective reasons, do not have the opportunity to pay alimony, but only those who do not pay because they do not want or do not take up the job to which they are predisposed or there are any other offers, and they do not act in this direction, do nothing to make up for it, or take up work, for example. black to escape into the gray zone and not declare income. So that such perpetrators are, of course, liable, but if someone does not have the opportunity to find a job, then of course they will not be punished. This crime may be committed by the person who could carry out his duty to the Supreme Court. But he doesn't do it in spite of real possibilities. The perpetrator does not fulfil this obligation because he does not want to fulfill it or that obligation ignores it. Judgment of 17 April 1996. So the duty ignores it, it has the opportunity to fulfill it, and yet it doesn't. Therefore, the perpetrator who is in prison is not physically able to fulfil this obligation, so the debt which is theoretically increasing to him cannot be regarded as an element for which we will pursue him, because he has not had the physical ability to fulfil this obligation. So that there's no risk that if he gets out of prison, he'll be prosecuted for a debt he's grown up in while he's in prison. Coming back and referring directly to the senator's question of interest, I would point out that §5 provides for this situation: the court shall waive the sentence if no later than 30 days from the date of the first hearing as the suspect of the offence referred to in §1a has paid in full the outstanding maintenance, unless the guilt and the social harm of the act are against the penalty being imposed. As for the type of crime that we are introducing, the basic type of crime, I would call it objective, no one will prosecute the actions that took place prior to the entry into force of these laws, in accordance with the lex retro non agit principle. Rule of the article. The 4th Penal Code is fully honoured here, it cannot be a law which is worse with retroactive effect. Therefore, no one will charge the event that took place prior to the entry into force of this amendment to the Code. The qualified type, which has so far been the basic type, namely the element of persistence and exposure to the inability to meet the basic needs of life, is also subject to normal rules, as has been the case so far, in accordance with Article. Four Penal Codes. So that nothing changes here, we will in no way be recklessly chasing the perpetrators who have lost the three-month deadline to pay alimony. I repeat, interest is not an option. As for the question of Senator Aleksander Pociej, Mr. Senator, the full agreement is that the social problem that you have touched is, of course, seen by us. But what I'm trying to say is clearly that the arrest, the unlawful detention of the mother by the child, because I understand it's about situations like this... [[A child through a mother.]] Excuse me, a child by a mother. ...not about situations where fathers, fathers' associations question the decisions of the courts... 'Cause that's what happens, too, and I've been seeing him myself, even during... [[Of course, I'm not talking about these situations.]] Exactly. Because it is also very often that my dads and I worked with the Ombudsman, and I often met with the fathers' associations. They say that because the judge's environment is feminized, judges are more likely to grant children to mothers than fathers. We're not touching this topic, I understand. This applies to the situation in which the mother illegally holds the child in violation of the law, and the father is such situations in practice, I have heard of them myself. Often in some repressions, he does not pay alimony. He's absolutely not entitled to this. You can't...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u133	I'm sorry, Minister, I didn't ask that. I'm not even talking about the fact that someone doesn't pay alimony as part of the repression. I just asked if you were doing something about the problem that the mother was illegally holding the baby and You know it well. It's very difficult on a purely legal path to force her to perform her duty of contact with her father. Are you doing something about that? I'm not talking about someone not paying alimony because they don't get a baby.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u134	Mr. Senator, this is not the issue that this bill regulates. So if the Minister... [[Mrs. Marshal, I can ask, because we ask a lot of these things...]] Okay, but let's not bring this up any more. I'll ask the Minister... If the Minister has anything to add, please, and if not, it's another round of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u135	Yes. If you don't mind, I'd like to explain. Namely, arresting a child against a court decision is not a crime at the moment. We don't have a type of criminal act that would predict that such a mother is committing a crime. As I understand it, the senator is going to ask, like, a question. not to introduce a new type of criminal offence against such a mother or... well, the effectiveness of enforcement of judicial decisions at the stage of enforcement would have to be improved. This is more about applying the law, not making it. So it's a question of good practice, not a job for legislators. Unless the senator suggests introducing a new type of prohibited act: who is holding a child contrary to the decision of the court is punishable. If so, we can talk about it. We're ready for an exchange of arguments, a discussion. I would also like to explore what it looks like in other legal systems, e.g. in Germany or France, because we modeled on them when it comes to our regulations. I would very much like to start thinking about this subject. As I say, there are two elements of this problem: firstly, it is a question of execution, secondly, it is a question of a new type of prohibited act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u136	Thank you very much. Senator Swede still wants to ask. Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u137	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to ask you... about my question, I wasn't really talking about social assistance, because it's not social aid and it's not social workers who conduct the proceedings, it's usually the family benefits department. As regards the administrative procedure in the case of the maintenance fund, it is strictly defined by the Law on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance. 3, 3a and 3b talk about it when the authority directs a request for prosecution. This is not at the time of granting... only after the interview and after all the activities carried out which result from this mode. And yet, in the context of the question asked by Senator Grabowski, I will say that if the proceedings are conducted by the bailiff or the maintenance fund is already granted, there is no way that alimony will be paid without interest. This is directly due to repayment. The maintenance fund... First, interest is paid and then the principal amount from the maintenance fund. If the bailiff collects the debt, he also collects the interest first, collects the charge and, of course, his bail-in fee. So that I think that here these provisions of §4 and 5 are absolutely right and include as much interest as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u138	Thank you very much. And maybe another Question Time. Senator Antoni Szymanski. There you go. [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podzi: What do you mean?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Mrs. Marshal, I'll be with you in a minute. Because I wrote it wrong.]] Due to the fact that there is a transmission from the Senate, and because of a certain educational element, the Minister stressed mainly the issue of the execution of alimony in respect of parents entitled to alimony payments, I would like to ask about the issue of adult children who lay on parents who are seniors or are in a difficult situation, as well as other persons who are obliged to provide maintenance, who are not parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u140	Thank you very much. And your Marshal Maria Panczyk-Podzier. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u141	Thank you. Minister, you have already partially answered my doubts by answering my colleagues, but I would like to ask you a question. I understand that prison punishment for those who have refused to pay alimony is severe for those inmates, but it is also severe, or maybe rather cumbersome or cumbersome, for us taxpayers, because we are the ones who bear the cost of this prison. Is there, then, a special program for the activation of these people, those allies who would impose a duty on them to work as part of their prison sentence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u142	Thank you. And you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. And then we ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Simple technical question. Initially, the law or rather the draft law in the government's submission was entitled to amend the Law of the Criminal Code, i.e. only one law was to be amended. The next amendment was then made, namely the Law on Aid to People with Child Support, but this has already happened at the stage of the parliamentary work. Why... Well, as you can see, you've agreed to add that rule to the article. 2. Why was this provision not included in the original submission? Have you forgotten this recipe, or... 'Cause he suddenly showed up at the Seym stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u144	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u145	Thank you very much. As far as the first issue is concerned, I'll say it's an article. 209 §1 refers to maintenance obligations and does not differentiate in any way whether it is the obligation of parents to children, children to parents or any other relationship. It is a commitment, a commitment, whose execution is supported by criminal sanctions. Deals should be kept . pacta sunt servanda. And this contractual liability is mainly subject to the regime resulting from Article. 471 Civil Code. At times, however, criminal law is also involved in the matter of keeping and executing contracts. And that's how it is in this situation. Namely, it enters as an ultima ratio when there are important social reasons for this, important criminalisation considerations for certain behaviours. If the obligation cannot be otherwise executed, then it is no longer a matter of ordinary contract on the basis that someone has performed a service and someone else has not paid for something. At this point, this is already a special agreement, because it concerns the issue of living, the question of living needs. So, of course, the realization of this obligation is also devoted to the relationship of parents. Children, from their parents, but also from their children to their parents. This is because we are talking about maintenance obligations established by a judicial decision, a settlement before a court or another authority or another agreement. So the origins of this maintenance obligation can be any way, it could be a court decision, it could be a contract, it could be a settlement, it could be any other source, regardless of the relationship, it could be against the initial or vice versa, or finally towards the sidelines, it could also exist as far as possible. Therefore, in answer to this question by the senator, I stress that criminal liability may theoretically also be subject to children's parents, it is not excluded. Another question was asked by the senator, the senator asked about the duty to work. I would like to point out that the reduction of this penalty by one year has led us to include the so-called system to a greater extent than before. electronic surveillance system, colloquially speaking, electronic rings. This SDE system is currently only available in terms of 1/3 at its overall mass. It is very flexible, spacious, good for use and we are really proud of it. We can boast about the effectiveness, effectiveness of this system. We are also very good in comparison with other Western European countries. This system, modelled on the British system, is presented as a model for many other countries. He's really doing a great job here. And the alimentary place, I apologize for the colloquialism, is in this system. Lowering the penalty to a year will enable them to benefit from these, so it is the name, privileges, these are specific privileges, they will be able to work, they will thus be able to function in freedom, under electronic supervision, take up work and pay outstanding alimony. In addition, a project is currently being prepared to facilitate the application of this system. The aim is to ensure that the court can, to some extent, prejudice the use of these electronic rings at earlier stages of the proceedings, so as not to wait until the penalty has been enforced. We consider, for example, that. Already at the time of the judgment, the issuing of a judicial judgment may in some way balance the likelihood of the decision of that measure. There is indeed a wide field for action here. The project is almost ready, it will be presented shortly, and it will cause this system to increase, including those convicted of non-alination. Besides, it's a duty to work. Here, too, we have a package of changes, including. facilitations for entrepreneurs employing convicted but also solutions for convicted persons. Minister Jak oversees the whole system, you might say, the work of convicted persons, halls and all kinds of infrastructure issues that I do not want to enter at the moment. Indeed, one of the objectives is to ensure that the work of a convicted person for non-alimentation is carried out. Because in this case, as in no other case, work can really rehabilitate and effectively, because on the one hand it provides maintenance, being closest to the entitled to maintenance, and on the other hand it has a positive effect on the formation of social attitudes, life after punishment. So if someone doesn't pay, they're gonna pay right now, working in a way that's forced, and entrepreneurs who hire people like that are gonna get a lot of benefits. So that's the whole change package. Thank you, senator, for that question. The last question concerned the legislative correction, which, Mr Senator, was brought to the attention of the Legislative Office of the Sejm, and indeed this change was proposed by the Legislative Office of the Sejm. Article 2 is amended as follows: 7 Aid Act, where there was a reference only to this particular article. 209 §1. Now we have the act of §1 and §2. So, I'd say, first of all, as far as this change is concerned, the Legal Office of the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u146	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Pociej, and then Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, but in the meantime, the Minister has answered the question of a colleague who I also wanted to...]] I see. [[Yes, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I appreciate the frankness of the answer about how it actually was with this law on helping people entitled to alimony. Now I'd like to ask you a deeper question. Well, you're changing the system, I'd call it criminal, which is a criminal procedure for a maintenance. Good. You seal it, that's very good. This, of course, has financial implications, but it goes hand in hand with electronic surveillance, and with the ability to work prisoners. It's all part of a system. Good. But in the case of maintenance cases, there's also an administrative procedure that mayors, mayors, usually do on their behalf social services. You haven't noticed this procedure in this bill. What does that mean? You haven't fully correlated the criminal code with this bill. Well, if these two procedures were separate, it could be left behind and the administrative procedure could be dealt with later or not to touch it at all, because perhaps there is no need. But these procedures aren't entirely separate. First of all, the principle of right. First, the administrative procedure should be used as less ailing, timely, of course, and then the criminal procedure. I don't think that's the case here. Secondly, the administrative procedure sometimes initiates a criminal procedure. It's like this. The article which is amended in this law concerns the transition from administrative procedure to criminal procedure. And if so, there should be an administrative procedure and then a criminal procedure. Those deadlines should be added. Perhaps a period of 3 months in the case where the beginning of the criminal procedure sets out the application and, in fact, the administrative notification, e.g. With OPS, it's too short. Please note that we have a deadline here. Three months, but he's an empty term, because the administrative procedure takes about six months. [[Question, please.]] The last question, and I think it's crucial. So far it's been that if someone wanted to avoid paying alimony, in court, of course, in court proceedings... what's the easiest way to prove? That it's not persistent evasion. Right? Because he paid some small sum two, three times, and he had peace. It's not gonna happen now. What, then, will the emphasis go on when it comes to attempts to evade? Well, avoiding, for example. Reassignment of wealth to family... In short, being naked. Which means there's no possibility of execution. There is another way, namely to prove that it did not evade, that these were objective conditions. It's much easier for the court to prove that someone was averted after this administrative procedure, because there's even a decision that someone was... [[Mr. Senator, please shorten the question...]] I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. [[...because we're in this one minute. Just hang on to the time.]] Good. Bottom line, I'm going to say that the administrative procedure, because, as I'm going to say, it's proven earlier that somebody's been ducking... This makes it much easier to carry out a judicial procedure later. But of course, first it has to be implemented administratively. These temporal correlations... Don't you think we need to take a look at this law on the assistance of people entitled to alimony and agree on both procedures temporarily so that the tools that are in criminal proceedings are compatible and fully used?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u148	Thank you, Senator. The question is asked by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I will return to this unfortunate delay interest. As far as I understand it correctly, the idea of the designer, or ministry, is that the outstanding interest should not be paid. As far as §4 is concerned, it is a matter of payment. The Senator rapporteur pointed me to the bailiff procedure, but it does not have to be in the form of bailiffs. You can also pay in a different form. And my concern is that it can actually achieve the opposite effect. If, in the event of a long-term default, the payment of the principal by a potential authorising officer, without interest, within 30 days of the date of the first hearing, he is released from criminal liability, then why does he have to pay these alimony payments? If these interest rates are increasing for some time, then the time is still working in his favor, because he does not have to cover these interest rates, as I understand from the Minister's interpretation. Aren't you worried that this might have the opposite effect on those years... Especially if these interest rates are significant. He'll be waiting. Why should he pay? He'll be summoned at some time and at the end of the 21st day, he'll pay the principal, and the interest will not. Yes? It doesn't have to be a bailiff. That's one thing. And here's the question: is this really the ministry's intention? If not, it may be worth considering, however, the clarification of §4 and §5 by supplementing the provision on maintenance claims, outstanding maintenance payments with a record of interest for delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u150	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who wants to ask you a question? No. That was the last question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u151	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwiński's question concerns the relationship between the administrative procedure and the criminal procedure. The administrative procedure is indeed governed by Article. 3 and 5 of the Act in question, namely the Law on the Assistance of Persons with Child Support. The result of this procedure is, among others. the fact that the Starosta may possibly retain the driver's licence there are specific sanctions However, as a result of this procedure, as a result of the final decision to consider the debtor concerned obliged to pay maintenance, the name is such: the decision to consider the maintenance debtor to be incompatible with maintenance obligations... Where such a decision becomes final, the competent authority shall submit an application to prosecute the debtor for the offence referred to in the law on the criminal code in Article. 209 §1, which we are talking about here. If this decision becomes final, it shall make a notification. I don't see any discrepancies between one procedure and the other. One thing comes from the other. One thing precedes the other. The same is true for drivers: we have an administrative decision by the old man to stop the driver's driver's licence, who was driving a vehicle in a built-up area, exceeding 50 km; here we have 2 procedures that apply to the same behaviour. The same behaviour may be a speeding offence, and may result in the removal of a driving licence, resulting in specific administrative sanctions by the decision of the old man. These two procedures are coordinated in a complementary, simultaneous, parallel manner, and here we have one procedure after the other, so one ends with a notification to law enforcement to commit this crime. Therefore, the time limits within which this procedure is being carried out are of no prejudicing importance. We saw, of course, the art. 5, but we did not consider it reasonable to make any significant changes or impose any additional obligations on the administrative authorities that conduct these proceedings. This may end not only with an application, but also, I repeat, with other administrative sanctions. After obtaining from the Central Register of Vehicles and Drivers such information that the maintenance debtor has the right to drive, the retention of the licence of that maintenance debtor can be established. And we don't want to discuss it. These are certain instruments given to the administrations that implement this. Here we absolutely do not want to change anything, on the contrary We facilitate their task by introducing clear criteria for assessing this persistence: persistence is a delay of 3 months. And this whole art thing. We don't see the need to change it, Senator. Also, the deadlines do not fail one another. These two proceedings take place independently of each other. I repeat, there are known cases, such as cases of speeding drivers, when two complementary procedures can be used. But it's not just these cases, because there's a lot of other times when there's an administrative procedure and a penalty procedure for the meaning of largo, in particular a misdemeanor, to apply to similar or the same behavior. Here, introducing something on the principle of... I agree that criminal law is certain ultima ratio. However, certain behaviours are sanctioned, criminalised, criminalised, but also subject to administrative sanctions. And there's no contradiction here, there's no charge. ne bis in idem, nothing like that, and the senator didn't put it that way either. So I don't see any contradictions here. With regard to the issue of interest for late payment, of course, we have seen the risks of maintenance debtors falling into debt spirals, Mr. Senator. Interest must, of course, be paid. They can be prosecuted on a civilian road. But if we put in place a penalty regime for interest, that would be the risk I just mentioned. Interest is, of course, an accessory right to the main benefit, and we are protecting basic social relations with the criminal regime. From the article. Article 5 (1) (b) 3a shows that 6 months of not paying 50% This is due to the provision that I have just mentioned in response to the senator's question, the law on assistance to persons entitled to alimony... Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a of the Act means that 6 months of not paying 50% the amount of maintenance fixed maintenance is 3 months full non-payment, as is the case in our project. This provision of the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of 3a is correlated with our project. So that I absolutely do not see the need to regulate interest in any separate way. Basic relationships... We criminalize the issue, we deal with the issue of basic benefits, while the issue of accessory benefits necessarily does not. That's our choice. If this works in the way that the senator mentioned, it will cause various types of irregularities in the collection of alimony, the pursuit of de facto non-payment of alimony, we are ready to talk. That's a reasonable compromise. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u152	Thank you. Senator Czerwinski would like to ask. Yes, Senator? [[Oh, Jesus!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u153	Excuse me, shorty. Minister, the Penal Code Act: here are three months, great. After 2 months, you can apply to recognise the debtor with the very decision you have spoken of longer. The debtor, knowing that something is starting to happen in the administrative field, starts paying half of it and pays back half of his alimony within six months. You can't make that decision, and the debtor already owes 10,000. You can't make that decision, even though the debtor has 10,000 debts. Please note that once this law enters into force, it will first and foremost affect such debtors with arrears from the previous period and there will be problems of interpretation. That's what I'm talking about, the timeline issue. Am I making myself clear right now? A simple example. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: May I, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u154	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u155	Mr. Senator, full agreement, but the inability to make a decision doesn't prevent us from prosecuting these outstanding alimony payments. After all, the creditor can always make such a notification and this is the case most often. In practice, the administrative decisions referred to in Article. 5 of this law are an exception and there is some marginal number of such decisions. This decision is not, in principle, information to law enforcement on the conduct of the case. If the creditor is injured, the creditor shall make such a notification. If he does not make a decision, the administrative decision will neither help him nor interfere with it. Not coordinating these two modes, I say, is not an obstacle at all. The creditor will never wait for the decision of the law enforcement authority, only he himself will go and make such a notification to the prosecutor or the prosecutor will receive it by another means, in accordance with the principle of legalism referred to in Article. 10 c.p.k., because he is bound to prosecute these crimes. I don't see any contradictions here, on the contrary, binding the prosecutor with some administrative decision, you might say, would have a counterproductive effect, because then we would all be looking at the need for this decision, the legitimacy of the decision, and then the effectiveness of the prosecutor's actions. It would be just like those unfortunate vat invoices we talked about here a few weeks ago. Indeed, the administrative procedure was, in effect, an introduction to the criminal procedure and the prosecution, the prosecutor, waiting for the decision of the tax authority to enforce the tax decision and only later was he able to take certain actions concerning the prosecution of empty VAT invoices. What did it do? That there was nothing left to pick after that. And that's why we introduced the art. 270a and Art. 271a, which already in the pre-order of the forbidden act allow to chase behind these empty invoices so that they do not wait for the decision of the administration, because then of course it is too late. When did the administration receive this information? Well, when I return to these VAT invoices again, the person concerned applied, when the taxable person applied to the tax authority, to the administration for security of return due to VAT, often paying a huge sum. There were cases when 4 million zlotys were paid and 50 million zlotys were wrongly provided. So? And it was only then that the prosecutor was able to take action when the decision of the administration became final. That's not what we're talking about. The administration is only one of the sources, one of the sources of information to law enforcement, but not the sole one, and so absolutely cannot be. And if the senator sees that there's no coordination... I can even agree with that, but let's leave it because we absolutely do not want to touch the work of the administration here. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about effective prosecution, complementary to administrative proceedings, and when the creditor is injured, he will make such a notification without waiting for an administrative decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for the comprehensive answers to your questions. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Alexander Swede to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to a number of points that were raised at the Joint Committees meeting, which directly concern this amendment. First, however, I would like to thank the government for having taken up such an important and sensitive subject, which is not putting on people entitled to alimony. For starters, statistics. Only in 2015 an amount of about PLN 1.5 billion was paid under the maintenance fund, of which only PLN 200 million was recovered. In total, we already have more than 10 billion unpaid maintenance, only since October 2008, when the maintenance fund law came into force. And yet, there is also a backlog that was created earlier as a result of the maintenance advance and the old fund... In addition, the amounts not paid by the debtors still need to be added, but not paid because the entitled person exceeds the income criterion and does not receive benefits from the maintenance fund. It is also a situation where such benefits are paid, but only up to the amount of 500 PLN and actual maintenance is higher. This surplus is therefore not included in the arrears of the maintenance fund, not to mention the costs of administrative proceedings carried out by social assistance authorities. So, as we can see, the arrears for not paying child support are much, much higher. It is estimated that about 1 million children do not receive child support in Poland. However, I would like to return to the issues raised at the committee meeting. The issue of six months of arrears included in the Law on Aid to Alimony or three months in the Penal Code. I fully agree with the marshal, Prof. Michał Sewerynski, who stressed at the meeting of the joint committees that we have two regimes in which two separate proceedings take place: the administrative procedure of the body, which is the social assistance centre, and the criminal proceedings in which judicial proceedings are initiated under the rule of the Penal Code, which is the subject of our amendment. Although, of course, they intersect in a certain way, they are two completely separate proceedings. However, it may be worth a closer look. Let's start with administrative mode. The proceedings carried out by social assistance centres shall be initiated if the victim, in addition to meeting all the criteria for receiving benefits from the Alimentary Fund, provides proof of the ineffectiveness of the bail-out in two months' time. Only then, in addition to the bail-in procedure, does the competent authority, which is the social assistance centre, begin administrative proceedings. What does it look like in practice? The authority shall first accept the application and pay the benefit as the competent authority of the creditor. I would like to stress that the proposal goes to the authority during the third month of the ineffective execution, i.e. at the start of administrative proceedings. In accordance with the proposed amendment, the victim may then start a separate criminal route by submitting a request for prosecution under Article. 209 §1. He doesn't have to wait. However, the social assistance centre, when initiating proceedings, first determines whether it is the competent authority of the debtor. If it is not, it shall, in accordance with the information from the bailiff, request the initiation of proceedings to the competent authority on account of the place of residence of the debtor. If it is the competent authority of the debtor, it shall send a maintenance interview to the debtor, specifying the time limits within which it is to appear. And now we're dealing with different situations. The debtor may present himself for an interview, but he may not agree to make a statement of property. We can also get an annotation that it does not live at the address indicated, and therefore suddenly the administrative authority concerned ceases to be competent to conduct proceedings. The debtor may finally present himself for a maintenance interview, during which he will, however, make a declaration of property. If the reason for non-employment is a lack of employment, the authority shall apply to the county labour office for professional activation of the debtor and shall require him to register as an unemployed or job-seeking person, unless he has previously been registered. However, this whole procedure is time-consuming. And when can the debtor be regarded by the administrative authority as a breach of maintenance obligations? When an interview is prevented, the interview is made, but refuses to make a statement of property, refuses to register with the county employment office or refuses to take up employment without a legitimate reason. However, before a decision is made in this respect, the administrative authority shall send the debtor a notice of initiation of the procedure for a decision declaring him to be non-compliance with maintenance obligations and shall make a request to the bailiff as to the execution of the debts for the last 6 months. And until then, it usually passes by 6 or Depending on the complexity of the case Even more months from the day the bailiff opened the enforcement proceedings. Only after receiving information from the bailiff that over the last 6 months the debtor has not paid up to 50% of the fixed maintenance amount, the social assistance centre may apply to pursue and remove the driver's licence and transfer the debtor's debt to the business information offices. That's one thing. Secondly, the wording of the article itself. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a of the law on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance, stating that the decision to consider a maintenance debtor as a non-paying debtor does not appear if, for the last 6 months, he has complied with maintenance obligations of not less than 50% each month the amounts of maintenance fixed maintenance, I think it is positive, because it leads to such a situation that some of the arrears are being repaid, and it is those arrears which the bailiff does not enforce for various reasons. And the fact that an application for prosecution will not be filed by an administrative authority at this point in time That's what the Minister was talking about. It shall not block the way of the person entitled to report it. From the practice of administrative proceedings, I know that it is usually the case that either someone is trying to settle the arrears and is doing everything to settle the debt as a whole, or does nothing or very little to pay off this debt. A much worse rule was the so-called rule. the persistence and need to prove it, and hundreds of applications for prosecution by the administrative authority of their own motion have therefore been waived because of the lack of evidence by the courts or the prosecution of persistent evasion of this responsibility. It was also wrong that one of the conditions was exposure to the inability to meet basic needs of life, because this led to such a situation that, if the parent who cared for the child met these needs, there were no grounds for punishing the debtor who was under maintenance. That is why I am very happy that today we are changing this and moving in a positive direction. However, referring once again to administrative proceedings, I would like to stress that it is not true that we are changing something towards pushing Polish courts with applications for prosecution. These provisions were still in force in administrative proceedings. This was the result of the law on assistance to persons entitled to alimony. If the relevant social assistance centre considered the debtor to be devoid of payment, it applied for prosecution. These thousands of applications were received and still go to the Polish law enforcement authorities. It's just that these organs don't have their hands tied in case they're processed. In my view, this problem is largely addressed by this amendment. Its very positive aspect is, on the one hand, the consequence of applying restrictions and, on the other, the possibility of avoiding them by paying back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u158	Thank you, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I am very pleased that we are proceeding with such a very important bill today. Why did I decide to speak? Because, ladies and gentlemen, as a longtime entrepreneur and CEO of the company, I have dealt with people who have done everything to deceive their own families. It was a huge problem that I was dealing with, because, as far as these cases are concerned, I've always been so sensitive... One of my employees even said, "Why are you doing this if even law enforcement authorities aren't after us and you're doing everything you can to take our money?" In that way, speaking with a raised voice... I remembered this conversation today, and I remembered how impenetrable the justice system was, how irresponsible people used it. And I think, regardless of the political colors in this matter, we should be absolutely together. These misfortunes that affect these families are the result of the absolute weakness of the state and law enforcement authorities. And I am very happy, and thank you very much to all those who do everything to get those billions where they should go, very often to the poor abandoned children. But I would particularly like to draw attention to something today. I want to encourage the Ministry to be particularly stigmatized by public people, who are very often on the front pages of newspapers and wise about all subjects, and not pay basic alimony to their poor children. I personally believe that such persons should be publicly stigmatized or should be as it is in other countries, countries that have developed certain moral principles, that such a man is not given a hand. I think those standards will come back in our country. I'm very happy for you, and thank you... I will vote in favour of this bill. And every time... If this law is imperfect and the smartness of these people continues to lead us to avoid paying child support, we should meet again and re-new this law to improve it, because it is the cancer that is rolling our society. Mrs. Marshal, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Antony Szymanski to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Much has already been said in this debate and in the questions asked by the Minister and the rapporteurs, and I will therefore limit myself to just one element. I would like to think about how this amendment has to do with the declared pro-family policy of the state, which is the constitutional duty of the state, because it is the responsibility of the state to conduct such a pro-family policy. Well, my answer is this: the family has rights that must be respected and the state should respect these rights, but the family also has responsibilities and parents have responsibilities, but also children have responsibilities towards their parents. This whole debate shows that to a large extent this obligation of parents, the basic duty of parents to support children, is very much shaken in Poland. These billions of arrears we're exchanging, these hundreds of thousands of debtors. Parents who do not pay systematically to support their children or children who do not pay to support their old disabled parents It shows that certain things are disturbed here. Well, this amendment and the discussion around it are a very clear signal that the matter should be put back on its feet. On their feet, it means that the family, the parents towards the children, and the children towards their old parents, are obliged to maintain that the state can, of course, enter and enter this sphere, but should only enter where it is necessary and on the basis of a certain subsidiarity. In various discussions, as well as in my professional work, I have often met with people who asked for support when it comes to alimony. When I asked if the person who was in debt and who should be putting in alimony had occurred... I have often heard: but I do not want anything to do with this person; I would like this country to take over this duty. This is a completely incorrect situation. I am pleased that this amendment will affect this situation as it should be. That the parents will be the ones who will put them on their children. An element that is very important... I'm not entirely convinced about how it's solved. In Poland we have over 70,000 children in foster care. The parents of these children, but also relatives, are alive. These are children who have relatives and have parents. The amounts paid by the people I mentioned to support these children are minimal. The downloadability is small, too. Authorities that run these different types of institutions, or foster families, are not particularly interested in establishing cases because, as they claim, such cases are very difficult. I believe that this solution is to be adopted by the Senate, which should also apply to this sphere. Parents of children who are placed in foster care as well as their relatives should be more often obliged to pay for the maintenance of their children the amounts that they can pay so that the State pays as little as possible for these children. It's not just that the cost of maintaining this system is over 70,000 children. They are gigantic, but also that parents who place on their foster children are more responsible for these children. They're gonna do everything, and anyway more, and they're gonna change their lives in such a way that these kids can go back to them, go back to their biological families. If this very important change were also to address this issue, it could lead to a reduction in the number of children in foster care, because it would be of interest for parents to return to them. Of course, they are not coming back, I would say mechanically, because only with the permission of the court, the family judges who will decide if there is a proper change. This financial motive will also be very important here. If it weren't like that... I think the Ministry should think about a change in this area, which is very desirable. In general, I appreciate this amendment and I believe that it follows the principles of pro-family policy and signals very strongly... I am aware that I am stressing this once again. Because of the upheaval that has taken place for a long time, I still stress this basic duty of parents to maintain and raise their children. It's the same for relatives. Often we do not think about it, but also relatives, the closest ones are obliged to do so. The same goes for old parents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak, Senator Czesław Ryszka and Senator Robert Mamytkow made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the votes on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons. The text of the Act is contained in print No 453, and the report of the Commission in print No 453 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions on the amendment of the law on the employment of deprived persons. This law is one of the elements of the scheme for prisoners, which focuses on increasing the employment of convicted persons. The amendment introduces 2 major changes. Firstly, the funds contained in the Fund for Professional Activisation of Convicted Persons will not only be used for rehabilitation but also for the financing of tasks which are related to the extensive execution of prison sentences. The second amendment concerns a flat-rate remuneration which is payable to the employer of the sentenced person, which increases from 20% to 35%. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. The committee vote was smooth, six votes in favour of the bill, two abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u164	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Justice has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Marcin Warchoł like to speak on this bill? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, as the senator pointed out, is part of the government's work programme for prisoners. It is a fund consisting of deductions from the work carried out by the inmates, and the advantage of this system is that neither citizens nor the state add to it. Only as much as the inmates will be able to make up for this fund as much as it can be reinvested. The employment rate of convicted persons in 2015 was very low, only around 30%. When we took up the ministry of justice, this percentage of convicts took up work. This was one of the lowest indicators in Europe. The recipe for this is to change the whole system. One of the elements of this programme was the construction of production halls. Entrepreneurs benefiting from these privileges will be able to participate in this undertaking and will be able to increase from 20% to 40% on a flat-rate basis. We therefore propose an increase in the lump sum. At this point in practice, it looks like there are already 4 halls open... sorry, 3 halls, another one will be opened this year, it will be specifically 9 more halls. The kind of employment that has been convicted since the time the prison program entered into force, such a scale of employment has not yet been in the history of our country. At the moment, 31 000 people are employed by all convicted persons. It could work more, more than 40 grand, because the system is large, the system can handle it. And it will continue. So that I can only ask the High House to support our project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Alexander Swed, and then Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u167	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, since the proposed law is part of a wider package of such positive changes that the Ministry of Employment is implementing among the inmates, I have a question about what further actions are to be implemented within this package. How many entrepreneurs reported interest in hiring prisoners? How many prisoners are employed today? Do we have statistics like that? And should the construction of production halls cover all voivodships? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u168	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Barbara Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u169	I'm so sorry, I don't have a card. [[It's okay.]] I'm so sorry. Thank you. I have a question for you. It happened well because I have a few requests for senator intervention either from former prisoners or from prisoners who are serving punishment. And I'd like to ask if... The problem with some of them is that they're young people, I say, but they're adults who don't have a profession yet. And because they've been incarcerated for all kinds of crimes, they'd like to learn the profession, since it's already taking them some time, and have the opportunity to work. And there's some kind of verification going on. Since we are talking here about wages and about the possibility of such a broad action, which should only be commended, the possibility of earning, I would like to ask whether something has changed or if there is a mistake towards people who come forward and want to work, but require the teaching of a profession so that they can do something specifically and then eventually go out with this profession after they have been punished and can look for a job in this profession. But also to be able to start working during the execution of the penalty. If the Minister could say anything about it... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u170	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u171	Thank you very much. As for the issues that you asked Senator Swede, as I said, three halls have now been opened, there will be another 9 halls this year. As far as the number of entrepreneurs is concerned, there are 500 entrepreneurs interested and covered by the scheme. On a national scale... To be honest, I don't know exactly where these halls are gonna be built. The matter and the reform in this area are supervised by Minister Jak, so that the Minister will be the best recipient of this question. We can commit to answering in writing. As far as Senator Boris-Damięcka's question is concerned, training and education are, of course, elements of taking up work, elements of rehabilitation and restoring an inmate sentenced to the bosom of society, as soon as he gets out of a prison, from an indictment. And, of course, we organize this kind of training in prisons. They are also financed by EU funds. 100 million funds have been mobilised for training in this area, so-called. The POWER system includes this. And this, of course, is part of the system that we are talking about here. Possible wider information Because, as I understand it, the senator's question is to intervene in writing. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: If you don't mind my asking...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u172	Yes, please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u173	Thank you so much for this initiative. I especially care... 'Cause it's gonna help with the interventions that you're doing. I care, first of all, about the information that such an inmate has the right to come forward and make a request to teach a profession, and secondly, to give specific criteria... And is there any, so to speak, screening? Because in connection with these several interventions I was informed that in 2 specific prisons Information on this matter would make my work in this direction much easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u174	Thank you very much, Senator. I see there won't be any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Aleksandr Sweed and by Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, I also inform you that Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. And we begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 447 and the committee's report In print No 447 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices On 16 March 2017, the Senate Marshal sent to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration a draft law amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices to consider it at first reading. Commissions at a joint meeting on 19 April consider, at first reading, the draft law presented by the applicants, amend it and request the Senate to adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the submission of this draft to the Sejm. The committees authorized Senator Robert Mamytkow to represent the Senate in the work on this project in the Sejm. In short, I would like to remind you that the Act of 1 April 2016 on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and devices of general interest - Journal of the Laws of 2016 item. 744 (hereinafter referred to as the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism), introduced a ban on the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by units of local government through the names of buildings, objects and public utilities, including roads, streets, bridges, squares which commemorate or promote persons, organizations, events or dates symbolising the totalitarian system. Outside the scope of the law, among other things, the law remained.: names of schools, hospitals, cultural institutions, settlements and monuments glorifying the totalitarian system. Leaving the names of institutions and monuments commemorating events and people having a criminal influence on the history of Poland gives the supporters of totalitarianism the opportunity to promote their views and has a harmful effect on society. It was therefore necessary to amend the law by creating legal instruments for the removal of demoralizing monuments and names in public space. This will send a clear signal to the public that the State is implementing constitutional rules prohibiting the totalitarian system, and condemns and condemns all activities related to the promotion of totalitarian attitudes. In short, I will remind you that in the article. 1 in the Act of 1 April 2016 on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices, we introduce changes in the title. Namely, the words "buildings, buildings and public utility facilities' shall be replaced by the words "organisational units', "auxiliary units' of the municipalities, buildings, buildings and public utility facilities and monuments'. As I mentioned, schools and their teams, kindergartens, hospitals, educational institutions, cultural institutions and social institutions are considered to be organisational units. In turn, the title of Chapter 2 is replaced by the following: "The prohibition on the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by monuments'. As for the monuments, that's what we wrote in the article. 5a, they may not commemorate or otherwise promote persons, organisations, events or dates symbolising communism or other totalitarian system. Monuments also refer to mounds, obelisks, columns, sculptures, statues, busts, souvenir stones, plates and plaques, inscriptions and signs. This does not apply to objects not exposed to public sight, monuments located in cemeteries or other resting places, monuments exposed to public sight as part of artistic, educational, collector's, scientific or similar activities for purposes other than promoting the totalitarian system, as well as monuments inscribed either alone or as a part of a larger whole, to the register of monuments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 5b (5) (b) 1 It is stated that it is by decision that the voivode orders the owner or user of the perpetual property on which the monument is located which does not meet the conditions laid down in Article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1, removing this monument. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 5b (5) (b) 2 It is said that the adoption of the decision to remove the monument requires the opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals confirming this non-compliance. A higher degree of authority in relation to the voivodeship in cases for the removal of the monument shall be the Minister responsible for Cultural Affairs and the Protection of National Heritage. The costs of removing the monument shall be borne by the owner or user of the perpetual property on which the monument is located. It removes this monument within 12 months from the date of the entry into force of the Act. The costs of removing the monument shall be reimbursed by the Treasury from the State budget, the voivode of which shall be the responsibility if the owner or the perpetual user of the property on which the monument is situated has not participated in the procedure for the construction of this monument. If the obligation to remove the monument is not fulfilled, the voivode will issue a decision on the removal order and the property will lose the right to reimburse the removal costs. Finally, an important remark on the consultations carried out. Namely we received positive opinions of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, the Union of Voivodships of the Republic of Poland and voivodships. These opinions have led to the introduction of, inter alia, an amendment abolishing the obligation to obtain the consent of the owners of the property on which the internal road is situated to change its name. In addition to the entities I mentioned, the bill was submitted to: Minister of Development and Finance, Supreme Administrative Court, Institute of National Remembrance, Union of Polish Metropolises, Union of Polish Cities, Union of Polish Cities, Association of Rural Cities of the Republic of Poland, Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, National Council of Legal Councils and General Council of Lawyers. The subject matter of the proposed law is not covered by European Union law. The Act shall enter into force 3 months after the announcement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u176	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Robert Mammothov. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grażyna Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u177	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for you. This bill has already been processed in the Senate, she has been amended to the Sejm, and she has come back from there as if without overwork... Tell me what changes are, because the reasons... What were the basic reasons for the Sejm's treatment of this law? Why did she return in full without the Seym being tried and passed back to the Senate? [[This is the new... in the case of that law, the Sejm didn't make it.]] It's a precedent, you have to admit. And what changes have been made, the most fundamental changes to this previous bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u178	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u179	Senator, I can only say that this was not the subject of a committee meeting. I can tell you that bill wasn't in the Seym, it was simply withdrawn in the Senate. So she wasn't given a run like you say, from here it's the way it is. As for the changes made, I basically mentioned them all in my submission, so I don't know if I should repeat it. Moreover, the meeting of the joint committees was very short because, as I say, they all knew the subject matter, because, as you say, there was already a law that we were discussing, and it was only about details, to clarify it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u180	The senator wants to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u181	I'm just gonna be more specific. Because apart from those nationalisms that were the reason for rejecting this bill... In addition to those nationalisms that fell out of this bill, were there any further compelling arguments in favour of reopening the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u182	No. As I say, it wasn't the subject of a committee meeting. But I will answer so from myself that, apart from such editorial amendments, there were virtually no objections to it. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u183	Thank you very much. Senator Mammoth wishes to comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u184	Mrs. Senator, the bill we are now working on is a new legislative initiative. If you're asking about the previous one that was withdrawn from the Sejm, then we just voted out, we withdrew it for various reasons, including. Because she was going beyond the scope... further than the applicants assumed in the folding project. Namely, applicants in the case of the previous proposal were mainly about dismantling monuments... [[Communism.]] ...and the remains of the communist system that he was in Poland. We've worked out a new project for all of them... we've worked it out with every care. And I think there's no doubt about this project. Everyone supported him, of course, those who wanted to, because if someone didn't vote, then I don't treat him as a debater. But if someone was in the debate and voted... that's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u185	Senator. Senator. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u186	Thank you very much. 'Cause now it's gonna be kind of a discussion between us. I took part in a committee meeting too... [[I know.]] ...previously and at present. I, with all my knowledge, took the challenge and raised our hand behind the previous law, even though we made a number of comments. Therefore, I was merely trying to clarify whether, in addition to this kind of statement, the nationalisms we were talking about could be a reason for tightening the relationship between... [[Nationals.]] ...our countries, are there any further arguments in this regard? I heard it, and right now I'm taking it like no, there's no other reason. [[Yes, sir.]] And that's all I meant. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u187	Thank you very much. You're still the Marshal of the Lady below. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u188	Thank you very much, Marshal. Since the shirt of the body closest to me, I'm going to go back to my territory, Silesia. I wanted to ask you something like that. In connection with this law, it should be assumed that e.g. General Jerzy Ziętek, who, among others, lived, worked, worked during the so-called time. communes, because that's what it's called, isn't it? [[Was he a communist? He was.]] At the same time, I can say without exaggeration that it was a man who at that time did much good, much more than the contemporary Silesian glazes. Now, in connection with the amendment of this law, in connection with this law, will we turn its monuments, change the names of schools, streets? I ask you this, especially since there are articles in which the IPN questions his merits. I'd like to know the answer to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u189	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal, of course, the decision will belong to the IPN. It's the IPN that will decide whether the monument or the commemoration... [[Delete.]] ...is subject to this bill. I'm not going to tell you right now whether the representative you're talking about is a symbol of the previous totalitarian system, communism or not. If that's the case with the governor, the mayor, the president, he's gonna turn to the IPN for interpretation, and it's the IPN... That's why in the bill we put on the IPN, that it's the IPN that's supposed to decide on such matters. 'Cause it's just one of them. for this reason he was appointed, and it is the IPN that will tell whether the person on a given monument is a representative glorifying the totalitarian system, which was communism.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u191	I would just add, Senator... I'm a Silesian, too, and I know that's what I'm gonna say, the size of Jerzy Ziętek. And dozens of neighborhoods, dozens of streets... I'm sure there'll be a problem with that. Because such great figures are often ambiguous: a great insurgent, with great merits for Silesia, and at the same time played his role in the totalitarian system, as I say, ambiguous. But... [[But he has developed Silesia, Katowice... a great man.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please...]] Okay, but what... [[But it's not up to us to decide.]] But I'm telling you, it's not our role today. [[Ladies and gentlemen...]] [[Excuse me, Miss Marshal.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please do not enter into the discussion.]] I personally think... [[As it has already been said, this is what the IPN will determine.]] ...that the character of the son-in-law will be intact. That's what I think personally. [[Yes.]] [[I hope so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u192	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senators? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, you were to be with us as a representative of the government, Minister Jarosław Sellin, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. We have heard that the Ministry has presented a positive assessment of this project - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. [[Yes.]] But there's a vote in the Sejm, and it's gonna take a while. So if you think they have any questions for Minister Sellin, I'm gonna have to announce a recess... [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Since there are no such questions... Good. [[Everyone in the vote is arguing about more important things.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Professor Jan Zarin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to propose a specific amendment to this bill, but this amendment will be discussed in a moment, and now, on this occasion, I would like to emphasise the importance of this law. She accompanies the bill, which previously as a parliament We have realized and covered the decommunization of the streets, so to speak. Undoubtedly, both of these laws form one whole, which is called the creation by the Polish State, as well as by other entities which have important functions in Poland, historical policy. It is a historical policy, which is based on a clear statement that we want, as a sovereign and independent nation, to separate ourselves unambiguously from those roots which involve Soviet-communist totalitarianism, existing in Polish lands in the years 1944 and 1990 or until 1989, we can lead the final date as far as we think it is right; each of us has a certain individual view about it, so there is no reason to argue about it. But without a doubt the point is that one of the most dramatic effects of the system existing in Poland in these years was something we call a single word, namely relativism. And the historical policy that the Government of Law and Justice is proposing today, and we, as Senators of Law and Justice, also want to implement it, is a departure from relativism. The departure from relativism in the public space in which we live, so that Poles, those who are happily no longer burdened, like the young people who are sitting there, so that those Poles who are sitting there, not burdened with what we, our generations are burdened with, or the consequences of life and life in communism, have a life without this relativism. It is to some extent, I hope, a favor to the young generation, that we do not transfer our own burdens to the next generations. And our burden is undoubtedly that we lived in the Polish People's Republic regardless of whether we liked it or not, we were raised in it and by necessity, like every generation burdened with its generational problem, we should not carry this on the shoulders of those who are happily living in independent Poland. And that, I think, is the deepest sense of our internal historical policy. It's like creating a public space where there's no way... There are other problems, other problems, perhaps even tragedies that will meet the young generation, but it should not be our tragedies, our problems, our inherited from the Polish People's Republic relativism, relativism of very basic values such as patriotism, such as good, evil, betrayal. These are our generational problems. We in them probably as a generation, do not say that specifically Jan Żaryn or specifically any other person, we live. If someone thinks they are not, then I think that either consciously or unconsciously, possibly because of the lack of reflection on this subject, they do not want to admit it. I am very pleased that this bill will come into force and will actually make us escape such relativism. I want to give you a concrete example, an example of Zakroczym from my district, where there is a school, which until today is called, the name of the Union of Fighters for Freedom and Democracy. I do not want to give a lecture on what the ZBOWiD was, but for history's experts it is obvious that the date of the uprising was September 1, 1949, the beginning of the Stalinist Summit and the whole ZBOWiD as a structure in which the whole story of the Second World War came from the point of view of the Soviet state. This school still bears the name of ZBOWiD, although the management of the school itself and its surroundings in public space are trying to prove to me that this is the school of freedom and democracy fighters, Z has been scraped from memory. This is the relativism that we have to defend ourselves against, but not us, against this relativism, we have to defend young people above all. There is no mercy, there is no possibility of dialogue in the reality in which we will pretend that evil is good and good is evil. We will cause very far-reaching devastations in the young generation. This is a concrete example of what it is, of what it is, a relativized evil. The Institute of National Remembrance was designated by the legislator as undoubtedly the one who gained over the years, from 2000 to 2016, a huge authority, as the most deserved authority as a scientific, research institution, capable of resolving all disputes and problems which in this case will result from names or monuments, objects of general interest, among others. schools, other important places, whole settlements... There are, for example. settlement of the name of the 20th anniversary of the Polish People's Republic, 30th anniversary of the Polish People's Republic, etc., etc. I'm sure the Institute of National Remembrance will have to decide things more complicated than we ever thought. One of these is certainly Mr. Ziętek's figure, or Zaremba's figure in Szczecin. These are people who form part of the reality of developing Western and Northern lands or rebuilding Poland from war damage. Such examples, as far as Warsaw is concerned, are e.g. Head of the Office for Reconstruction of the Capital, Roman Piotrowski, Józef Sigalin. Surely, in the case of these people, there will be a reflection on whether, if there are objects of public interest in their name, they should be subject to decommunisation or not. I have a lot of respect for the Institute of National Remembrance because I know these people. I have worked there for over 15 years and I know that these are really very outstanding scientists and they certainly do not follow any party orders that would supposedly obscure their ability to judge historical reality. So in advance, I also ask possible volunteers to question the authority of the IPN to try to prove this first on other examples, and then to put this institution in a row that is not worthy of implementing this law. In my opinion, there is no more worthy institution for this day. Finally, the amendment resulting precisely from the role of IPN in the whole operation discussed here. That is, knowing the reality of this institution, I know perfectly well that the query that is being executed in the IPN cannot, so to speak, continue on command. I mean, the two-week term proposed here is a term that may be collapsed by the National Remembrance Institute. I therefore ask you to amend the article. 1 in point 4 in point (a) c part of the sentence in which the words are immediately, but not later than 2 weeks. Please replace them within a month and in particularly complex cases no later than 2 months. Why can things be so complicated? Let the example of Mr. Son-of-a-bitch serve here. But also please be aware that this institution cannot limit its query only to an internal query, i.e. inside the Institute of National Remembrance. The term will depend on the dynamics of the work not only of the archivers of the IPN, but also of the archivers of the State Archives and other institutions which the IPN has no influence on, and it responds. So let's give him a chance to make such a longer term, and then let's settle it. It is a term proposed by me, but agreed with the head of the Institute of National Remembrance, which in turn claims that in such a time they will be able to, as a matter of fact, apologize for the word, force employees, but also external entities, to realize the hopes laid in them. In a different mode, this 2-week warranty, the IPN cannot give us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u194	Thank you, Senator. You will now speak, Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I would really like to thank the Chief Senator, who has undertaken to prepare this bill, a colleague of Robert Mamotkow, because, Mr and Mrs Dear, today I think we are all aware of the historic role we will play by raising our hand in voting on decommunisation. First of all, let's remember that the families of all those who have been murdered by these bandits to whom we build monuments are waiting for this moment, we name the streets... This is certainly what people are waiting for, as I told you before, families of AK soldiers, WiN soldiers, are also waiting for families of people with Solidarity. Surely all those who remember the death of the beastly murdered Inca, who died in a heroic way and finally said to her grandmother: "I have done my command with dignity, I have not betrayed my homeland, I have not betrayed God." I'm sure you have heroes waiting for this moment, whose graves IPN now discovers on the Link, looking for a great Pole, captain of Pilecki. In fact, these bandits were wearing these heroes in German uniforms... And we're still supposed to wait for their monuments and streets to be wiped out? Aren't we supposed to remember people today? It is best remembered by one of the initiators who is in this room, Mr. Borusewicz. After all, he remembers how Ubecki's forces broke the gates of Gdańsk Shipyard, how tanks were opened with armored fire... It's the same thing to remember. about the guys from the mine, where they also broke out... and really shot at those people who stood up for independent Poland. That is why today anyone who votes differently is the fixer of the people's power. And today it is necessary to thank the Solidarity that there have been times in which we can adopt this resolution. Where will the monuments of Świerczewski, the monuments of Berling, the monuments of Moczar and other executioners stand? We have to remember that. Where will the well-deserved hide not those who should really be buried in the well-deserved avenues, like these soldiers of the WiN, the AK, and the Inca? I know that many do not like a very sharp speech, but, Dear Lords, even yesterday's representation of some people as candidates also shows that we forget the history of our beloved nation. Let us remember that the great Pole said that nations who lose their memory lose their lives. We can never really forget those heroes. And the decisions to liquidate the monuments, the names of the streets will certainly be made by the councils of the municipalities, the cities and therefore, if, in fact, those people who are heroes... And as Senator Ryszka said, some were two-faced because they were also on the central committees of the PZPR and had the opportunity to build and help... Therefore really, Mr and Mrs Dear, today we are adopting a resolution concerning the historical law and the generation will judge us. Once again, I would like to thank Senator Mammothov very much for making a very important bill. And in fact, the IPN institution is authorized to do that because there are wonderful, wonderful, wonderful people there. And, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, we also cannot forget these people together, who were actually murdered by UB forces in Gdańsk, Katowice and many other places in Poland. It was also on the territory of the Court of Justice, e.g. Scarlet... The boy went to Mass for his homeland and was found killed near the Orbis Hotel in Nowy Sącz. To this day these oppressors are doing very well because it has not been explained how this boy was murdered. Either that student in Cracow, or the Italian... many, many of them are heroes. Congratulations, Mr. Senator Robert, that the monuments of those attackers who were at the service of the Moscow NKVD will actually be removed and followed orders from Stalin, Bieruta in Poland and many, many others. Those who screamed that a man was meant to be an subject and did something else... Thanks again, really. I think, unanimously, without any political dispute, we will raise our hands for this bill. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. Thank you, Guests Invited. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u196	Thank you, too, Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Mr. Marshal, I just... because the senator used my name several times. I would like to correct and say that this is an initiative of 40 senators. I'm just a representative. Thank you.]] [[But from the PiS.]] Thank you very much. I do not see Senator Jackowski in the room, and therefore I give the floor to Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for remembering my name in such a good context, Senator Rooster. I want to start by saying that I'm in favour of this bill. Excuse me, but I have a pretty good memory. At a certain age you have a good memory and you remember distant things. I have a good one, too, and I remember things from a month ago. On the occasion of this bill, there was... a slight embarrassment of the Senate. We discussed this a month ago... Some fragments were added to the bill, which extended the destruction of monuments to the monuments of Ukrainian nationalism, Prussian imperialism, etc. I've asked your PiS senators not to do it, because it completely changes this bill and changes the transmission of this bill. And I said that this kind of decounization law, I do, but I don't support that kind of extension. I then voted against this bill. And how did the majority vote? How did the one who ran the bill vote? I told you... It was also a discussion about some reasonableness. Then the Senate Marshal had to intervene, lead to withdrawal, to pass this bill in a negative way... Now we have another approach. I'm not saying this to make anybody feel bad. Well, Senators, you have the majority and you can vote it out every time, but you should also have your own brains, some senses. And cities listen to rational arguments of people who know a little about it... This is an appeal, not an outrage, but I have to say it because what happened around this bill was very sad for me. Now, about historical politics... Mr. and Mrs. Senators, historical policy in my understanding is to adjust history... [[To politics.]] ...to the current political needs. I don't agree with that. History is science and it is enough to conduct good research, not conduct historical politics. Plus, the IPN Act, which extends competence, includes historical policy. So we have an IPN institution, an institution that determines the canons of historical policy. Luckily, we can't see it yet. You can't see it in the textbooks yet. We'll see what these textbooks are going to be like. But it's the IPN that's gonna set the canons. There is also no discussion here, nor in scientific work, fortunately. But this whole situation is unacceptable, at least because of me. Plus, Mr. Senator, former IPN employee, the IPN has one specific historical direction and is personally defined as the right of the center. And these tests, which he is conducting, absolutely do not have to be subject to, in many places, are not subject to the criterion of objectivity. When it comes to historical policy I'm sure you don't. That's where I have serious concerns. Personal cast of IPN... After all, we voted here in the Senate over the personnel cast and no one outside the PiS list was included. It's a pity for the IPN, but I also draw some consequences from it. So what is historical policy? If it's reliable research, there's no need for politics here. And there's no need for historical policy. If this is the introduction to the public awareness of certain values Yeah, that's right. But we also need to know what these values are, what is in historical politics and what it will look like. After all, in some places there is opposition of PiS councillors in the case of a proposal to name the street the first prime minister after 1989, Tadeusz Mazowiecki. It's some kind of historical policy that we cut out some to promote others. I assure you that I do not have a special estimate for Wałęsa, I had different... there were different periods, since a very sharp conflict at the beginning... Because it wasn't Wałęsa's conflict with the star. At first, it was a conflict between Wałęsa and Kołodziewicz. Then it changed, we had different relations during the martial law period. But if in the historical politics of Wałęsa disappears, it is neither good nor fair... [[This is normal idiotism.]] I'd be... That's why I'm saying there's a balance here. The balance in the IPN has not been preserved. On this I would like to conclude and repeat once again: I support this law, which is clear. Not because I have to support, because I didn't support the previous laws with your amendments... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...but because it has to be done. [[You can't do that.]] It's not gonna work either. It is not that we will be cut off from history and since the times of the Polish People's Republic, Stalinist etc., certainly not from the Polish People's Republic. After all, 21 postulates came from the Polish People's Republic. When someone says, well, it hasn't been realized, today we have to implement it, it thinks and approaches the matter completely ahistorically. They were coming out of the Polish People's Republic. Similarly, a large part of us were educated at that time. And what does that mean? That we're soaked in it? If we soaked through this PRL, we wouldn't be able to make any changes. So you can't say that those guys, etc., at that time... that it has to be crossed out somehow, crossed out. You can't just do that. There's no way to keep this PRL out of the loop. Of course, it is necessary to examine, but also to examine objectively. I don't want to go into some historical analysis anymore. Of course, I judge the PRL clearly negative, but there are people who somehow benefited at that time, came from the village to cities, promoted, etc., etc. Because power in the Polish People's Republic was not only punishing and not allowing, but also giving carrots, giving money... [[And land.]] ...give the land. A whole bunch of people remember that. But, respecting that memory, with that positive memory, me and we disagree. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Only shorter maybe it's a seminar.]] [[You, the actor...]] [[What?]] [[Mr. Marshal, now I support you 100%. The actor doesn't like it.]] [[What did you say?]] [[Nothing.]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u199	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad we're finally getting to the finals. I hope that this amendment to the law, this now proposed amendment, will be adopted quickly in the Sejm and that the regulations contained therein will become a fact. As for the fact that she is needed, I think there is no doubt in this House. I am pleased that Marshal Borusewicz has declared his full support for this law, and I am very pleased because, as it will be adopted in consensus, the better it will be for this law and for the case which is connected with this law. In fact, the purpose of this law is to help local governments, which simply are not able to cope with certain past events. And as we all know, 'Cause that was the story of the whole thing. In fact, the Senate responded to signals from the local government, which wanted to have a literal set of rules on how to deal with the remnants of commemoration of various people from the period of the Polish People's Republic, in order to have some reference points on how to refer to this. The construction of this law has been developed. We already had an extensive discussion on the occasion of the previous Senate initiative. Right now, we're going to the happy end. And that's why I'm so happy. When we drive around Poland, especially to smaller centres, we often deal with objects with which both content and signatures are associated, indicating that in the free Republic such objects should not operate in public space. In the context of the debate on this law, I would like to draw attention to another issue, another element. We have in Poland many places commemorating the criminal activity of Nazi Germany in the form of memorial sites or plaques which show: here is the place of execution, here was shot, there was murdered, here something else was done, and in any case they commemorate these events from the past. In my opinion, it is very important, although this is not the case for this bill, that we ensure the possibility of commemorating those places where the criminal activities of the NKVD or other related NKVD organizations were undertaken, carried out on Polish citizens and on the territory of the Republic of Poland. And there'd be plenty of places like this. Surely the IPN could show us many such places and many such events that should be honored and honored in a dignified way, at least by means of tables drawn up according to a pattern that would define such places. And I'm saying this after talking to a lot of people who signaled me the problem of being places of this kind, testifying to our latest 20th century history. So, to conclude my speech, I would like to express my conviction that this bill, which will come out of the Senate, will be dealt with as soon as possible by the Sejm and will be able to become the law in force as soon as possible. And it seems to me that the adoption of Senator Żaryn's amendment is important for substantive reasons: it is a matter of giving time to the Institute of National Remembrance to carry out calmly the activities which the Institute of National Remembrance performs under this law. However, I would not like to start a discussion and debate with Marshal Borusewicz on the evaluation of the Institute of National Remembrance at the moment. I can assure you that I highly appreciate the achievements of the Institute of National Remembrance, and I'm glad... I think that we, together with Marshal Borusewicz, voted in favour of the bill which established the Institute of National Remembrance. And I think from the perspective of these almost 20 years, we can just... Well, there's Senator Chudowska here, and there's a couple of people, friends and colleagues who have been involved in this work. And I think from the perspective of these nearly 20 years of functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance we can clearly say that it was a very good initiative, a very necessary institution. And it is an institution that, contrary to appearances, has not exhausted its mission, on the contrary. In terms of research or education, it can continue to do very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Żaryn, second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would first of all like to ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the Legislative Committee be able to meet immediately after the break so that we can proceed as quickly as possible and at this meeting adopt this law. As the person who makes the amendment, I would like to ensure that I do not be a brake on this issue. In matters of substance, I have only two brief remarks. Of course, I was brought here by your Marshal Borusewicz in fact. The first issue is historical policy. As we all know very well, all civilized states conduct historical policies regardless of whether they admit it or not. We are not, I hope, such outstanding liars to pretend that the Polish state did not lead it or lead it. It's just that this historical policy is based on the truth. 'Cause that's the most important thing in this case. At the same time, to be cultivated consciously and not unconsciously, otherwise the state becomes a useful collective idiot. And we do not want such a version of the Polish state, of course. We want the Polish state to be a rational state and to practice historical politics consciously, not in such a way that in fact allows other entities to use us to preach their historical narratives. Unfortunately, this happened in the history of the Third Polish Republic. Mr. Marshal, there are a lot of scientific publications on historical policy. The Institute of National Remembrance has been the organizer of scientific conferences on historical policy many times. Well, he participated in them, among others. Mr Krzysztof Brzechczyn from Poznań, who simply specializes in this field of knowledge as a historian and philosopher at the same time. This is a very important field of knowledge that is not involved in party-political thinking. Like any other field of knowledge, it is analyzed, criticised, etc. So please don't disappoint the concept of historical politics, because this scientific space is as present as possible in the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. The IPN is the second important issue that I would like to highlight here. This institution is chosen to carry out exactly the tasks we are talking about today, because it brings together scientists who have received degrees and degrees of doctors, habilitated doctors and Belgian professors. They did not receive them from the IPN, because, of course, the IPN has no possibility of transmitting degrees, only at universities and at the Polish Academy of Sciences, but they are employees of the IPN. This is simply the elite of Polish science when it comes to the latest history. There is no other institution in Poland that would group together so many scientists, only doctors, habilitation doctors and Belgian professors employed in one place. It's just an objective fact, and there's nothing to discuss. So, of course, it is reasonable that this institution is dealing with these very difficult, most difficult issues. But there is another feature that distinguishes this institution, which is worth recalling in this context. Namely, this institution, unfortunately as one of the few in Poland, did not have to be subjected to decommunization because it was never communist. No doubt, Mr. Marshal, you're right. The historians who work there have a diff, a very clear diff. None of them were ever an agent, a secret co-worker, a personal source of information, a UB officer, or an SB officer. [[Applause]] This is one of the few institutions in Poland that do not have such people in their ranks. And thank you. Lord God, Providence, and men like you, Mr. Marshal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, Mr. Marshal, you were one of the people who voted for this institution. Thank you very much for that. Thank you for the fact that this institution, also thanks to you, is, but let's be aware of what this means. This is one of those things in the Polish public space, which is not contaminated with relativism, which I was talking about. It is, and it will be, no doubt. If you want to see this negative, your good will, but then I must say, Mr. Marshal, that you have also inherited the PRL mentality in your wonderful resume. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. [[This is the PRL mentality.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: scandal, disgrace, this is an outrage.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u202	I, too, in connection with Senator Zarin's request... [[Corrigendum.]] ...I would like to inform you that, after the debate on this item is over, I will order an hour's rest for the committee's meeting and then we will proceed with the vote. [[I just wish...]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u203	I wanted to correct the statement made by Professor Jarin... Professor, what you said in the last sentence... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...what you said in the last sentence shows that I'm right about the assessment of the current IPN. And that sentence, the accusation at my address... [[Mr. Marshal, this is not a correction.]] [[There it is.]] [[It's polemic. It's polemic.]] ...that shows that you are contaminated by this communist mentality, Mr. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u204	Thank you. Who's next? Senator Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to refer only to one thread that was raised in this Chamber in the context of the discussion. It is here that Marshal Borusewicz repeated several times that he disagrees with historical politics. I think it's a matter of definition, Mr. Marshal. And I think this needs to be explained, I mean. We're not talking about political history, just as there was a political economy, there was a people's democracy, and there could be a political history, which is some kind of mutation of history needed for some kind of politics. No. This is about historical policy, as is economic policy, social policy, which is simply a conscious, planned state action, organised society, which is intended to serve specific, important, social, national, national objectives. That is, the need for conscious activity spreading our achievements as a nation and a state. And I think we have something to show for it. Because if we begin to exchange our contribution to the achievements of world civilization, starting with the Council of Constance, and perhaps from the earliest times, to talk about the achievements of the Solidarity, about our Viennese Victoria, about the Battle of Warsaw, about the miracle of the Vistula River... But let us also mention people, characters such as Copernicus, Olszewski, John Paul II... These are important historical achievements that we should remember and which we should introduce into public space, both educational in school and public in the sense that society lives. I must say that I enjoyed it very much, as Pope Francis said about good memory in July last year during World Youth Days. And so he commented a little bit. So we remember the good. Because this memory of good builds good in us. And so I understand the historical policy that builds our position in Europe and in the world, building patriotism in young people. But also in the old, also in adults, because this is a continuous process Which patriotism is to be the foundation of our economic, scientific, social successes. When a young man wonders whether to leave or stay... There's a lot of young people who say, "I could go away, I could make twice as much money, but I'm staying." I'm staying because I have a family here because Grandpa's here. Is someone... And yet this is also a commitment to our predecessors. Not so long ago they gave their lives, but not for themselves. They knew that probably the effect of their victim's health and often life It won't come immediately that they're doing it for future generations. I would like to see a lot of people today who are able to give their health and life to others, including future generations. Quite recently I heard this statement: if there are no such things as you would like to give up your life for, then why do you live? It's worth asking yourself that sometimes. Of course, there may be a temptation to use such solutions temporarily, but this is judged. That's a grade. Society isn't mindless, it sees it. And often, faster than we think, such use has the opposite effect. Therefore, first of all, let us distinguish between these two concepts, historical policy and political history. There have been moments recently. I, too, have a good memory, Mr. Marshal, and I am also thinking of the recent past. When being a Pole was a blow job, when only bad moments of our history were exposed. Well, it was, it's a recent past. And there are still people in our society who have a big tube and can promote such thoughts. [[Gombrowicz...]] Hence, there is a great need for conscious activity in Poland, Europe and the world. This is our duty to past generations, as well as the great need for our future, because it builds the attitude that John Paul II spoke of: I feel responsible for this common great heritage, whose name is Poland. It's a historical policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u206	Thank you very much, Senator. I now ask Mr Klich to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u207	I ask you, as you said in the previous term of office A, it is now necessary to say B. And just as in the previous term we worked together on the decommunization bill, about removing these symbols from our streets and squares, so at the moment we should adopt together a law, a good law, about removing these monuments and removing these names from buildings that have not yet been removed by local authorities. I'm using the same argument I used years ago in my previous term. We are aware that some local governments have dealt with this symbolic decommunization of our public space, and some local authorities have, for various reasons, failed to cope with it. After all, it is very important that our children, our grandchildren, live in a space of truth in which there are no elements which are icons of the previous, enslavement of Poles of the system. Therefore, I have no doubt that such a law should be supported. I just hope that, in the course of the work of the parliament on this bill, the idea which has been included will not return... used in the original form of this law here in the Senate Hall to dig it up by means of this law. wrongly, unjustly and harmfully in relation to our national interest, a ditch between Poland and our neighbours, especially in the East. We critically judged in our political environment. I don't know. I don't know. I This initiative, which can be referred to as the initiative 'isms'. It is about removing, removing symbols that were considered by some of you as symbols of some nationalism, e.g. Lithuanian on Polish lands. It seemed a bit humorous: Lithuanian nationalism on Polish lands. Apart from Lithuanian nationalism, there was still Ukrainian nationalism, or, if I remember correctly, Prussian militarism. Right? I hope that this attempt to harm this law will not happen again in further work. I express it with all my conviction, because only on this condition I personally, not as president of the Senators' Group, but I personally as Bogdan Klich I can support this law. The implementation and implementation of this law will also be extremely important. Because the Institute of National Remembrance plays a key role and will either really pursue historical truth or pursue historical politics. There is, Mr. Senator Żaryn, the fundamental difference between the role of the Institute as revealing historical truth and the role of the Institute as a leading historical policy. We called the Institute to reveal the truth, the one truth, our latest history, especially those times we shared as a time of enslavement and resistance. To show how we were enslaved by the PRL system and how we opposed this enslavement. And not to divide Poles into better and worse depending on what they did at the beginning of their lives. Because such a division of Poles, this is a historical policy, and the institute is not from such a policy being pursued, only that the historical truth which I mark is one, unrelated, told Poles. And what role will be played by the Institute of National Remembrance, telling local governments whose names should be changed, depends on how this law will be perceived by the citizens of the Republic of Poland. Thus, the Institute of National Remembrance can support the implementation of this law, but it can also blow it up. I therefore call on all those who represent the Institute to take this law very seriously and very responsiblely to the role of the Institute as enshrined in this Act and not to do so during its implementation. Because she's justified in herself. I also think, Mr. Senator, that you should apologize, just as you once did, this time Mr. Marshal Borusewicz for accusing him of his PRL mentality. Because those who, like you, have had the opportunity to stay in detention for some time after 1980, are not even able to imagine what it was like to be in detention, even for a moment, before 1980, and the rise of Solidarity. I can tell you something about it, and Marshal Borusewicz is the whole story. So I suggest you apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the matter we are debating today is clear, simple and we should not debate it for so long. In answer to my questions about the reasons for re-trialing this law, these reasons have been clarified and I thought that this would simply be the end of my participation in this debate. To this point or to this debate, I would also like to add that as councilwoman of the first term of office in a reborn local government... We've dealt with this problem, there's no problem with these places of worship or anything. We have dealt with this matter as this self-government and term of office. And I'm very sorry that the bill didn't come into effect at the time, because she would have handled it. There was no need for participation or intermediaries, no intermediaries, because there was a local government, a reborn local government. It was these people downstairs who knew who was evil and what they should do. I wish it hadn't happened. We were very fresh after 1989, but we also remembered all events, as in my case all events since 1989 and later. And if we're talking about mediation here, 'Cause that's how I thought the IPN was gonna be a middleman between a citizen, a local government, and those who're finally gonna decide how to solve this problem. At the time I didn't know that there would be a problem or wondering about names, for example. Roosevelt, Kotanski or Kuron. I really didn't know that, because for me, Kuron... [[There's no such...]] Whatever. But, ladies and gentlemen, Michnik, Kuron, Modzelewski... Well, that was a subpoena. And then no one was watching... I remember the martial law perfectly. Therefore, it must cause anxiety. I'll finish the thought here. It's like the way of the final solution, who will ultimately decide whether, including the Supreme Administrative Court, it will end in the voivodeship, which is the representative of the authority of that time. But there are also moments when, ladies and gentlemen, you can't keep quiet. Professor, it's happened to you several times, you know you were able to get out of this oppression at the time. Professor and Dear Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that I had... I don't know if it was a pleasure at the time... But if it weren't for people like Mr. Bogdan Borusewicz, who in the cities... [[You'll leave the marshal to you. History will judge him.]] Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Turns out it's not.]] [[The marshal's history has proved that he doesn't need to be defended.]] [[Calm down, please.]] Mr. Senator, I'm about to address you, because this is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Your name came up in this discussion. Mr. Bogdan Borusewicz's name came up in this discussion. So I want to make it clear that for people like me, in a deep province... that if it weren't for people like Piotr Andrzejewski, Mr Zbigniew Romaszewski, Mrs Hanna Skowrońska, Mr Bogdan Borusewicz, we wouldn't be there, there wouldn't be anybody to help us, because if we were put in prison, nobody would be there. It wasn't Warsaw or Gdansk or Katowice. We were doomed to oblivion. It was thanks to people like Bogdan Borusewicz, who had under himself or in his own, that, so to speak, the interest of the people of Central Pomerania, we could have been brave, because then courage cost more than today and say that you are a relic of that... [[Period.]] [[Time.]] Yeah, period... time. [[I didn't say that.]] That's worse than you said. You've said worse. [[No.]] Mr. Senator, if we don't respect such people, if we don't respect the memory of such people, then... And who doesn't remember their story, then... We can finish this. You, as an excellent historian, should finish that sentence. I therefore appeal and ask that we never use such arguments during such discussions. Never. Has there been any objection from us? We, when we discuss, have different cards on our sides, different names. Do we reflect the ball in this way during this kind of discussion of laws? No. Let's have a serious discussion. And, Senator, I appeal again, and please... Because history has already judged people like that. Mr. Marshal Romaszewski will probably also judge Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Let's remember... And may something good be left of us. Let's not destroy these anymore. The last people who still have a beautiful history card. Let's not ruin it. Because no one can understand why we're fighting these people anymore, really. So that I appeal and please. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u210	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska. [[Mr. Marshal, wait a minute.]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u211	Correct, because I've been... my name... I want to say thank you, but at the same time, I don't feel offended. [[Of course not.]] I said the same thing, and I can justify it, but somewhere out of the O.R. So I don't expect any gestures here... [[Mr. Marshal!]] I understand it's so... It was... [[It wasn't a corrigendum again.]] Good. But I don't want my own person to be the reason for any polemics... [[I see.]] ...and make it harder.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u212	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Zdrojewska. [[Bravo, Mr. Marshal! We will not be offended by people who are not able to offend us.]] I'm asking the people sitting at the gallery for peace. [[I'm so sorry.]] [[He's got a strong alter ego...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u213	I disagree with Marshal Borusewicz. He may not be offended, of course, and I understand that Mr. Marshal is not offended, but I think what happened was offensive. And that is why I would like to address you as a representative of the Vice-Marshals and your Marshal. Once again, we are dealing with this kind of insult. And I believe that from behind this table there should be attention towards Senator Zarin, so that we do not speak to each other in this way and do not accuse ourselves of PRL mentality. I'm looking at senator Mammoth now. You just interrupted, you had your attention to the senator. But... [[No, I'm so sorry...]] Let me finish. Then you'll sign up and you'll tell yourself. [[I'll sign up.]] You even spoke in good faith. But, Senator, you should have... [[You're gonna sign me up, okay, Mr. Secretary?]] What are you doing? Mr. Senator, if you were speaking in good faith, you should have come forward sooner and apologized for your colleague's words or got his attention or done so that it didn't happen again. I understand that sometimes you, Mr. Senator Żaryn, bear. But it shouldn't. Because you're going in the wrong direction, that's not the right way. I'd also like to say that this kind of thinking... [[Get out of the way.]] I'd like to refer to Senator Wind, but when he's done talking on the phone, then I'll refer to him. Now I'm going to refer to Senator Zarin. And here I would like to step away from our polemics about your insulting words for a moment, and to tell you what I would like to question in your statement, which has struck me in particular. You told me about these young people, these fantastic I.P.N. historians. I know these companies very well, I have worked with them many times, I know the Kraut, I know various outstanding, truly well-deserved people working in the IPN. And I'll tell you, the IPN was different in different times, and I judge it differently. But that's not the point. You said something about people working there, and they're the greatest people right now. And I'm just pointing out that the IPN is a state institution. The IPN is always political. I'm already leaving this historical policy, but it's always political, because you've caused the boss to be replaced right now, and so on. The IPN is politically subordinate to the ruling camp. Because of the same fact the historians... I'm not saying that... I'm sure the vast majority are trying to work objectively, but this objectivity by itself is somehow contaminated. I wouldn't confuse the work of historians working, for example. at universities. You said the most outstanding historians work at the IPN. I'd like to say that I don't think that's true. I believe that there are also very good historians at Polish universities, where independent historians work. And I'd like to draw your attention to that. And one last thing. You were talking about young IPN employees. Very good, fantastic, except you've made such a strange... You opposed Marshal Borusewicz, you spoke about the mentality, as you later described, the Polish People's Republic and those untainted like the puppets of the IPN. I'll tell you... This is weird. Please pay attention. On the one hand, you're talking about great IPN employees who have never been tested. They're graduating, and now they're doing a career in science; well, that's very good. On the other hand, you are talking about the legend of Solidarity. On your part, there is a charge that this legend has some twisted PRL mentality, while these young puppies are some unsurpassed pattern, etc. I don't want to offend any of those young working historians. I'm just not convinced by your argument, I don't understand that kind of thinking at all. I don't understand either, Mr. Senator. I'm addressing Senator Wind. You're thinking, aren't you? I'd like to argue with you about one thing. You said they were like that. I don't know which period you meant. Who spoke ill of Poland, etc. I remind you that there were also Gombrowicz, Wyspiański or Mrożek. They also spoke differently about this Poland at different times. If we thought only Sienkiewicz and never had a reflection on ourselves, on their history, on Polishness, on all this, it would be bad for us. I don't want to open any discussions here. I'm just saying, I don't like the way you think. And a word to the end. -Solidarity meant... We remember this beautiful symbol of solidarity, this sign. "Solidarity has always meant "one with another, not "one against another. Let us not allow discussions, including on topics that connect us and should bring us together, about which we have quite similar views. We are also going to vote on this bill... Let us not forget certain things, let us not be one against another, because soon we will dig such a ditch in Poland that we will not be able to meet anywhere. Don't lead me to this. I appeal very strongly for this once again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Infantry. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u215	Senator Infantry, you're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, High Izbo...]] Because I came in here, I'm gonna make sure Borusewicz's name doesn't fly like this... [[And if they say again, then...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u216	Dear Marshal Borusewicz, [[Ah...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm gonna make an amendment on this occasion. What do I justify it with? First of all, I would like to thank Senator Mammothov for keeping his word, and after he had withdrawn the proposal that had previously been processed, he again submitted a proposal to prohibit the promotion of communism. However, I have one reservation. There were comments from my and Senator Bear about the extension of this catalogue. This was not only about communism and other totalitarian systems, but also about mentioning all those mentioned in the constitution, i.e. Nazism and fascism, as well as organizations promoting racial hatred, ethnic hatred and national hatred. And because I... It is perhaps a far-reaching proposition, but Jews were murdered in Poland not by communists, but by Nazis, fascists and those who promoted the birth of racial hatred. That's what I think. If such monuments or organisations that promote such activities still exist, they should be excluded from our public space. For this reason, I submit a request with Senator Bear to change the name of the proposed law and to change the records accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u217	Thank you, Senator. [[Specifically.]] And please take the floor of Senator Mammothov. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I wasn't supposed to speak because, of course, I signed up under the influence of emotion, but I have to say this because you made the impression that we wanted to, we don't know how, attack Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. I'm gonna talk about myself because I'm gonna... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I'll speak for myself. When I was 23 years old, Mr. Marshal was my role model. And I remember that. I disagree with your marshal today with almost nothing, but that doesn't mean I don't respect him. I respect, I appreciate, I know that Poland would not be where it is today, if there were not among others. A man like Mr. Borusewicz. I know it well, and I always remember it. But you've created such an atmosphere that we here want to know what things with Mr. Marshal... nothing like that. I'm not gonna defend Mr. Lighthouse because Mr. Lighthouse is gonna defend itself. But I realized that if you weren't a marshal against the IPN... He has that mentality, that's how I understood it. That's it. And you made a big deal out of it. Mr. Marshall, and that's what I have to say. You're the one who yelled at me from here that I was a political commissioner. You know, it hurt me so much back then... Because you know who the commissioner is? But I would never in my life want you to apologize to me, because first of all, I'm not insulting, and that's not... But it hurts me. And now you say you have a good memory. Mr. Marshal, it is for your term of office that we have chosen two members of the Constitutional Tribunal in violation of... We all said it wasn't right. We made a mistake with this bill, introducing these nationalism records, and the state is making a big deal out of it. That's all I want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. And please... [[Yes, sir. I'm short, too.]] [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes.]] ...Mr. Senator Stanislaw Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I am very pleased that Marshal Shark mentioned the sleep. Mr. Zbyszek Romaszewski. But, Mrs. Marshal, we remember when it was the choice of sleep. Mr. Romaszewski as Vice Marshal, it took eight months. There was a total blockage about his person. And that really was a huge authority. After all, the guy who defended the people of Solidarity was in the NRA, he was interned. We also remember Radom. And I'm gonna say this to quiet it down a little bit: we also have to give what's rightfully ours, Mr. Prof. Żaryn. I liked Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's present attitude, too, because he said: politics has different opinions. And yet this is the man who shows young people in publications the history of independent Poland. And I can only say thank you to his hands, because at every invitation the young people come and talk about those people that I actually mentioned in my first speech. I merely forgot to tell you about the priest, Father George. And now a lot of things come out in the open. How he was treated before the drowning, in Włocławek, the truth about the priest Zychu or the priest Suchowolc. These are the things we need to remember. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I have only taken the floor to correct this. Let's put it this way: we remember, in fact, Minister Klich, Mr. Senator at that time... I remember when I performed and told you about the Giul Mietek, about Nowak. After all, a boy in martial law was welded in pipes by the UB when there was a strike in the steelworks, now it was Huta Sendzimira, I said about these matters, because many people really fought for it. And as I say, this bill has to be really adopted and it has to be done really quickly. And in politics, you have to be tough and determined and really not be offended. 'Cause there's a lot of people here that could be replaced. Mrs. Zdrojewska performed here... After all, I can also name such people, heroes of the railway solidarity. In Wrocław there were Jurek Dul, Władek Tatarzyński and actually... [[What about me?]] Buddy Actor, the actors were clapping back then, I'm not saying that you, but some of them performed and supported the system. [[I was at the barricades with Gil the whole time.]] But, I'm sorry... I'll say this: I remember when we were talking about these journalists' heroes, how they went out on Sunday and declared martial law, some in captains' uniforms, colonels, and now some of them are huge heroes. I fully support what Mrs. Shark, the marshal, said today that courage stood. Everyone's a hero today. I will say that for me, since we are talking about these things, one thing is appalling and frightening: that we, the people of Solidarity, because it is certainly the Civic Platform, as well as the Law and Justice, well, here Senator Mammoths said that 40 Senators of Law and Justice, including myself, signed it too. We cannot reach consensus on such matters. I really think someone wants to heat the atmosphere. So that I actually... Senator Fedorovich and I have known each other for years... [[Yes.]] ...because we know each other because we were regional councillors. And, as Mrs Štark said, the bill should be right after 1989, and then there would be no holy peace. [[There'd be peace.]] And, Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna protest a little bit about saying that we're sort of blocking the street name Jack Kuronia or Mr. Geremek. Because they are also people of Solidarity, we must not forget that they were also in prisons. Well, you have to read the book how sleep was treated. Mr. Jack Curonio. He was almost abused. I'm not gonna talk in prison, but I'm gonna say he was brought in, like he wrote in books, just into inhumanity. Well, that's the truth. But I will say that I have a different opinion about the thick line that Prime Minister Mazowiecki has declared sacred memory. Because I think if there was decommunization then, there would be no problem with the commies. No one would send them to Siberia, but there would be a 10-year ban on executive positions. But I really don't think you can... If there was such an initiative to give the street the name of Tadeusz Mazowiecki a sacred memory, I would certainly not block it, and I would raise my hand for it. I will never raise my hand for the street to be the name of this agent, some general, I don't know, Rostworovsky or anybody from Moscow who came to Poland and was... [[Rokossowski!]] Yeah, Rokossowski was... [[Not Rostrovsky.]] Yes, Rokossowski. And the general of the Polish Army was an agent sent from Moscow to Poland. And that's why I'm saying... And, ladies and gentlemen, let's also remember that... [[Yeah, but...]] It's important to remember, too. I'm almost done. Why those AKs were so dull. That's because they went with General Anders on another route and that they had other plans. It's been five minutes. [[Yeah, I'm afraid so.]] ...that's why, Mr. Marshal, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u221	And there's not another five minutes. [[Some fairy tales you're telling.]] [[Hi, what fairy tales?]] [[AKs with Anders?]] Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was arrested by the SB, too, but that's not what we're talking about today. We think about the good and the future from a different perspective. That is why there are two thoughts I would like to add to this debate. Well, we can't burden everything with a political adjective and give it a pejorative meaning. Well, you can't do that. Does that mean that everyone politically appointed by the Sejm, the Senate or the government becomes a slave to a party? Well, you can't think like that. Does that mean that every Member and Senator is a slave? This is a super method of eliminating decent people from public space, because they're going to say, "We're not interested." And it's great by some environments since 1989. Therefore, it is worth weighing words, I really urge to do so, it is worth weighing words. If we want to think and act stately, we have to weigh our words. And now think second. 'Cause the senator here is kind of a trip to me. or polemics... There were those who said wrong about Poland And there were examples of artists and creators. Reflection on Polishness and criticism are of course very necessary, only that And here you can recall the words of the book of Ecclesiastes. Everything has its time. Everything has its time, its place and its space. In copyright law, it's called a field of exploitation. Yes? You can say something in the Senate, you can announce it on TV, you can announce it in the European Parliament, but then it will make a completely different sense. We know that when we have different cases and we really want to solve these problems, we sometimes discuss them in clowns. And when you just want to be so PR, you go straight to television or the Senate podium. Yes? But then the value of the solution becomes much harder to get, because immediately there is a reaction and emotions. Right? So this is where you have to be aware that there have been cases like this. I don't want to personalize it, it was just one of the reasons for my previous speech. That these negative speeches about Poland, about Polishness, were so, well, still negative, because something always wrong... Of course, in such cases as the senator referred to here in a polemic form, we always need to explore the broader context. I don't want to develop it, because it would cause further discussion right away, but yes, it's a broader context, because many people have had their own periods. And we have to see that, too, right? Not only is it bad, it's not just good, but it's important to see the whole thing. So I'd like to ask you to sometimes give us a positive interpretation of the senator's speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Piotr Zientarski. [[Voices from the room: Short, short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna cut it short. Actually, I wasn't going to speak, but you provoked me by Senator Mammoths because here, in front of Mr. Marshal... [[How popular I am, Mr. Marshal!]] Yes. ... Because he said that here in the days of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz we chose two judges for the Constitutional Tribunal. [[In this term.]] Well, I think you've got the wrong chamber, Senator. You've got the wrong chamber. We didn't choose... Neither Mr. Marshal had anything to do with this, nor me, nor any of you sitting here. And that's an important point. Yeah, that's an important point. The second point is that those elected by that parliamentary majority have withdrawn, while the three elected illegally consider themselves judges. And that's the small difference. But I would also like to say briefly something about this proposed bill... [[I was picking...]] Undoubtedly, this bill is unnecessarily discussed by us today, because it should be dealt with by the Sejm. And I don't think there's any doubt about that, because so far all kinds of initiatives have always been there or very often modified. At least it's accepted in its entirety. And that's what the Sejm is for, to have this initiative, according to its... It's just our initiative, so... He shouldn't have sent it back to the Sejm. It's true, isn't it? Because there is no such formal authority, no constitutional authority. The Sejm should have a case, our motion, recognized or rejected, considering it wrong. Well, I guess we all agree that this initiative is right. I don't think there's any doubt here. That is why there are doubts: why did the Sejm do so? Of course, we have no other option in this situation, but this is... the Seym isn't the second instance that can send our case back to rediscover, it's a duty. I do not want to say: psi. Constitutional obligation to recognize an initiative that... [[The precedence was created.]] A precedent has been created and many senators are storming against it because it is beating the status of our House. Well, I'm sorry, what do you mean you did something wrong? Well, that's what he's... And how much are we doing, right? Either there are rules of lawmaking or there aren't. And that's the weird behavior of the House of Sejm that she's returning it to us without recognition. And it's 99%. 'Cause we know there's only some adjustments. We want to accept and agree with this because it is important that this decommunization is finished. And there's no way, ladies and gentlemen, of any streets, because this is not the bill. This is about constructions, monuments, plaques that... except for cemeteries, as we remember. And that's all it is. I believe that this law is right, of course, in this form, but we have indeed been put in such a, well, uncomfortable situation by the Sejm and hence, I think, this lengthy discussion. Thank you very much. [[Tell that to the Bear who wants to introduce racism.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u225	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Break.]] Mr. Senator, would you like to sign up? [[Voices from the room: No...]] Mr. Senator Richard? [[No, I just wanted to...]] All right, well, sit down and don't yell. Excuse me, I'll vote now. Well, unfortunately, there's no one to replace me... I've got five more minutes. As a senator, I would like to say to you and to stress that this situation which I consider to be a bad situation is a precedent, and here Mr. Senator, my predecessor, pointed this out. I mean, in a situation where the Sejm decided that this bill had errors, some errors, then the Sejm should correct this bill, and then, of course, possible amendments to us... But this is unfortunately a precedent, and I have some concerns that such precedents should not be applied to subsequent laws. And in parliamentary practice, these precedents are very important. And that's the first line. Second line. Of course, I also prefer that polemics, which are necessary, do not shift to personal matters, do not cause one to say bad things about the other, because someone has one or another view, and someone with these views does not agree. And that's two. Thirdly, because Senator Mammoth was offended by my words that he was a political commissioner... I don't remember exactly what I said, but if that's what happened, then I apologize to the senator. Of course, the senator wasn't... [[There's no need for that.]] ...a political commissioner, chief of police, because he's guarding certain things... [[The runner...]] ...watching certain things, just like he guarded that bill, except he didn't see to it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And that's where I end up... [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] That's the end of it. Well, I'm sorry, I haven't finished my point yet... I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senators Żaryn, Infantry and Bear. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Senator Żaryn filed a motion, right? [[Yeah, yeah.]] The senator has requested that this draft be considered at this meeting. Since Senator Żaryn has requested that the committee be appointed, because that's the way it should be... [[Yeah, yeah. At this meeting.]] ...to prepare an additional report to carry out the third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting, if I do not hear the votes of objection, I consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal submitted. I can't hear the voices of opposition. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Act amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws, Senate printing No. 479, will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room No. 217. A joint meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions will then be held in room 217 on the examination of applications for the Law amending the Criminal Code and the Law on Assistance to People with Child Support, Senate Printing No 451. A joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will then be held in room 217 on the examination of applications for the Law amending the Criminal Code and certain other laws, the Senate printing No 452. A joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration will then take place about 30 minutes after the adjournment in room 217 is announced on the proposal for a revision of the Act on the Prohibition of Promotion of Communism or another totalitarian regime by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities, Senate printing No 447. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u227	Dismissed until 5:10 p.m. 5:10 a.m. vote. [[What time?]] Voting time at 17.10. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 07 to 17 minutes 10]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u228	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Repetition Act and some other laws. The Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. Senatski Print No 476 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote is over. Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on repatriation and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the pharmaceutical law. The meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 472 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Following a joint meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the joint committees request the adoption of a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u230	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Senator Józef Zając, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. In addition, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Tomasz Grodzki were the rapporteurs of the minority committee. Does anyone want to speak? Senator Tomasz Grodzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a little bit. Since many amendments tabled by colleagues have not been accepted since no amendment has been accepted, I reiterate my proposal to reject this law in its entirety and to wait for the so-called amendment. a major revision of pharmaceutical law, calling on the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to take care of patients' well-being during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u232	Thank you very much. Do any of the Senators mentioned above wish to speak? No. Thank you. We therefore proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the two previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion of the minority committee and of Senator Tomasz Grodzki to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 49 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 47 against, 32 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the pharmaceutical law. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. Senator's Printing No 454 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 2 against, 25 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Measurements and the Law on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 452 Z. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the joint committees, i.e. The Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, I would like to inform you that the committees of today's sitting have examined the proposals made during the debate on the Law amending the Criminal Code and certain other laws and present to the High Senate the following position: The High Senate is willing to accept the proposal set out in point I, i.e. a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm asking you to accept the amendments. These are the amendments that have been adopted by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission, as well as the amendments that I tabled during today's meeting, which relate primarily to issues related to the article. 178b, which is punishment for not stopping... So it's about punishing a criminal offence with a prison sentence, not a milder kind of punishment, punishment for not stopping. Not even for running away. That's what these amendments are talking about. And a very important amendment, which was adopted earlier by the committee, by both committees, and thus was an amendment by the majority of the time, and did not at the moment become an amendment by the majority, after the last meeting of the joint committee... It's about driving bans, but it's also about them being generic, which is that, as in the example of Senator Cichoń, the pilot who drives the plane, he's not deprived of the right just because he's driving the car, he doesn't stop for example. to be checked. These are really very important amendments, very important amendments, because even this article. 178b, which I was talking about, absolutely unnecessary, even though there is a criminalization... The two provisions of the Code of Offences allow, if I say so, non-response to the detention of driving bans, as well as the penalty provided for by the Code of Offences, so this article introduces a completely unnecessary category of crime here. And in connection with it, everyone becomes a potential criminal, sir, even if he ignores himself in an unnoticed way... he doesn't stop for control. It gives rise to great dangers. Therefore, we are making the adoption of these amendments, which are of a fundamental nature, subject to the adoption of the entire law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? But I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet, because you can't hear what I'm saying. During the discussion, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Piotr Florek, also the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions were Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. There are no calls. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the majority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 44 were in favour, 33 against, 6 abstained. [[Voting No 11]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. We would like to return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Penal Code and the Law on assistance to persons entitled to alimony. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 451 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Alexander Swede, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u237	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The meeting of the Joint Committee, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the meeting. Three proposals were examined, including the most far-reaching proposal, for the adoption of a law without amendments. It was adopted by the joint committees, and therefore I also request the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Assistance to Persons entitled to Maintenance without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u238	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the rapporteurs still want to speak? Senators of the committee were Senators Jan Rulewski and Antoni Szymański. No. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 54 for, 27 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Penal Code and the Law on Assistance to Persons with Child Support. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Employment of Freedomless Persons. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject, which is in print No 479 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to submit a report to the committee and then a request supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u239	Mr Marshal, the committee has accepted the proposal to adopt this law without amendments, but I think it is even better if we vote on this one amendment, giving entrepreneurs a chance, giving them a month to better adapt the software in their companies to implement new changes. Let's give them a chance. Either way, we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you still want to speak as an applicant? No. In the first place... [[Or else...]] Yes? More? But the senator has already presented the committee's report and his proposal. I ask you, first of all, to vote on the proposal for a law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, supported by the committee, to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome. We're voting. Please report the results. The votes were 84 senators, 61 votes against, 22 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Employment of Temporary Workers and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Culture and Media, and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 447 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u241	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I present an additional report by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. The committees request the support of Senator Jan Żaryn's amendment, together with a uniform draft law, as well as a draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 447 S. The committees did not support Senators Leszek Piechota and Andrzej Biesiołek's conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u242	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Leszek Piechota, to present proposals supported by a minority of the Joint Committees. [[Can I have it on the spot?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u243	I would like, well, to encourage all the esteemed senators and senators to vote in favour of our proposal, Senator Biesiołek and my expanding catalog of totalitarian systems, banning promotion in the form of monuments and other structures... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u244	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading, the legislative proposals were tabled by Senator Jan Żaryn, Senator Leszek Piechota and Senator Andrzej Biesiołek. Senator Andrzej Bear, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u245	I would just like to point out that our amendments extend this catalogue to fascism and Nazism, and I think there is nothing wrong with supporting these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u246	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, in the order of the text, in print No 447 X and then in the adoption of the draft, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Note: Amendments 1 and 3 will be voted together. These amendments clarify the catalogue of totalitarian systems and prohibit the promotion of organisations based on racial or national hatred. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 35 for, 44 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] Amendments 1 and 3 were rejected. Amendment 2 extends the deadline for an opinion by the Institute of National Remembrance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 51 votes against, 7 against, 26 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 3 has already been voted out. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendment adopted and on the draft resolution on the transfer to the Senate... to the Sejm, I am sorry, this draft law. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Robert Mamytkow to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a bill amending the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. [[Talking in the O.R.]] At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Robert Mamytkow to represent the Senate in further work on this project. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the order of the 39th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the order of the next meeting, convened on 26 and 27 April, has been sent to you by e-mail. We'll proceed with the statements... Any statements? Good. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Please take the floor of Senator Grażyna Sztark first. Are you Senator Grażyna Shark? [[He's here. There it is.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, and I apologize for the interruption. Statement addressed to Ms Beata Szydło, President of the Council of Ministers, on the sneaky entry of the Central Anti-corruption Office officers into the protective area of the Office of the National Judicial Council. In connection with the intrusion on 19 April 2017 at 13.30 a.m., three CBA officers into the National Judicial Council's protection zone and the disruption of the work of the National Judicial Council bureau with the participation of the press spokespersons, we ask the Prime Minister to provide the legal and factual basis for such drastic, sudden intervention which disrupts the work of an important constitutional body, the National Judicial Council. The need for officials to personally deliver a letter to an official spokesperson of the National Court of Justice cannot be criticised in the light of the rules governing the delivery of official correspondence. The information that had already existed in the media regarding the verification of the KRS Press Officer's statement of property did not require immediate administrative action. We see such drastic and sneaky actions by CBA officers on the day of the nationwide protest of judges as an attempt to intimidate the entire legal community, which we strongly oppose. And here are the names. Read it? [[Please.]] Jerzy Fedorowicz, Piotr Wach, Piotr Zientarski, Grażyna Szark, Bogdan Klich, Jerzy Wcisła, Waldemar Sługocki, Mieczysław Augustyn, Tomasz Grodzki, Barbara Zdrojewska, Leszek Czarnobaj, Marian Poślednik, Maria Pańczyk-Podziej and Kazimierz Kleina. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u249	Statement to Minister Andrzej Adamczyk. I am, Minister, at the same time one of the signatories, a joint statement which the Senators of Law and Justice send to you. This joint statement is related to our common concern that they report to us, to our offices, the owners of construction companies very badly injured in connection with contracts which were conducted by the Main Directorate of National Roads and Motorways. These are the companies that were brought to ruin. And so far we could say that brought to ruin only by previous governments, or coalition of the PO PSL. Unfortunately, today we must say that also the current management, and therefore you, Minister, cannot remove responsibility for the condition of these companies, because it has been a long time since you took over the resort in question. And in this joint statement that has been made, there is one thread that I would like to consider as my own, separate question. Namely, I ask you to answer the question of whether better communication between two resorts is possible, i.e. your resort, Minister, and the resort of justice. This is because Zbigniew Ziobro, Minister of Justice in one of his recent interviews, presented in one of the weekly nationwides, answered the question about fraud related to the construction of roads and highways unambiguously, I quote: "I am shocked by the plague of fraud against medium-sized and small enterprises. Many companies not only in the construction of roads and highways have been harmed, deceived, destroyed. And you can get the impression that the Polish state tolerated it, because it mattered only to the strongest, only to the oligarchs that were carried in the literature. And while Donald Tusk often referred to these companies, they were treated as inferior people on a daily basis. Please, Minister, do not replace Donald Tusk's name in the future with Andrzej Adamczyk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-senat-39-2.u250	Thank you very much. That's all the statements? Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-nineth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The Thirty-nineth Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 17 minutes 36]]
