ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on my fellow Members, Mr Kubov, Mr Milewski, Mr Olszówka and Mr Sobonia to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, the Secretaries will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Daniel Milewski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Mr Daniel Milewski and Mr Piotr Olszówka. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Economy and Development - h.m. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.15, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Foreign Affairs - hour 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 15, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 16, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting International Cultural Exchange - hour 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Nurses, midwives and other health care professionals - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Reindustrialization of Poland - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: support for aestheticism - h. 13, - Parliamentary Group on Autism - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Privatized Hospitals - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: cooperative rights - h.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u3	Thank you very much. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of General Mariusz Zaruski on the 150th anniversary of his birth. The project is print number 1224. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of the project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Now I would like to ask you a question, Mrs Joanna Borowiak and Krystyna Wróblewska from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Every government should care about the safety of its citizens. In this context, it is important to invest in services that provide security, and therefore it is important to invest in police personnel, in appropriate equipment, as well as the maintenance of police stations and police stations. Meanwhile, 8-year-old governments of the PO-PSL coalition have resulted in the liquidation of many local police stations in municipalities. The reform, then known as the reorganisation, from 2007 resulted in a reduction in the number of posts in Poland from 811 to 399. The argument for organisational changes in the Police, which was used by the previous ruling team, was austerity and - curiazally - improving the security of citizens. However, this security has been put to great test. Today, as a result of detailed analyses and safety assessments carried out, we know that the reform has significantly reduced the level of safety in individual municipalities and small towns. The people also suffered a severe loss of security. As announced in the election campaign, the Government of Law and Justice restores the posts wound up by the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration announces the successful restoration of district police stations. This is an answer to the expectations of local communities and restoring a fundamental sense of security to citizens. Several dozen police stations have already been restored to local communities, including the district of Włocławski. Minister, how's the recovery process in the municipalities going? To what extent and to what extent Are local governments joining it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u5	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and During the years of the PO-PSL coalition, more than half of the stations operating in Poland were eliminated. The figures are even sadder than the ones you gave, because of the 817 posts that operated in December 2007, after 8 years of the PO-PSL coalition, only 399 remain. At the beginning of 2016, we held numerous public consultations across the country. It took part in them approx. Twenty-two thousand. citizens. There were almost 12 thousand. meetings. One of the demands of these meetings was the expectation that these posts would return. After all, when they were liquidated, we protested against the liquidation of the posts, protested as a Parliamentary Law and Justice Club, I protested as vice-president of the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Locals, locals protested, and police stations were being shut down, trying to implement the concept of the police on the phone. We have observed that this is a wrong concept, which has not worked anywhere and will not work in Poland either. According to our programme, the Law and Justice programme, which is currently the government programme of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, we are restoring the police stations. During the consultation 150 locations were reported, where the stations were expected to reactivate. After these consultations, after the first quarter of 2016, further needs are reported, for the time being 176 such places are reported in Poland. But you can predict it's not over. In 2016, actually in the second half of 2016, because then it started, you had to prepare for it. On a national scale, we've reactivated 37 stations. In 2017, 33 stations are scheduled to be restored and this figure may increase, also due to the logistical involvement of local authorities. Self-governments are generally interested in returning their stations to their municipalities and engage logistically, primarily by providing facilities in which these stations are re-located and by making a financial contribution related to the renovation of these facilities. Today we estimate the contribution of local governments at about 700,000. zł, when it comes to the stations that have been reactivated. And already this year, in January, two out of these 33 precincts have been restored to this day. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to keep the residents safe every day, the police must be close to the people. It has to be where normal everyday life takes place. Where people live, live, work, send their children to school, participate in sports and cultural events where they shop, go to church - there must be police. Not far, not a few dozen kilometers away and only responding to calls. Besides, the response time is shorter when the station is close, but more importantly, the recognition of threats is greater in a situation where the police operate on a daily basis near those places where normal everyday life takes place. So that the restoration of posts is not only a socially expected phenomenon, but also a desirable phenomenon when it comes to increasing the safety and security of Poles. According to recent studies, Poles have a high sense of security in their place of residence. Very high, because it reaches up to 95%, but right where the police are close, you can clearly see that this feeling is bigger. Therefore, this process will continue not only in 2017, but also in the following years. We assume that this process will continue by 2020, and we cannot conclude that any individual cases will not take place later. The important thing is that in many places, unfortunately, where the stations have been wound up, there are no buildings today where they can be re-localized, because those that previously served the stations have been used for other purposes, lent to someone else, sold, and there are also cases where they simply destroyed at that time and today require a lot of investment. Therefore, in the programme of modernization of uniformed services prepared by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration and adopted by the Government - in the programme already in force, because the law is signed by the President; this is the programme for the years 2017 So, in cooperation with the local authorities, and using these opportunities that I am referring to, we will strive to ensure that where the stations have been wound up, where there is an objective need to restore them, they can [[♪ The bell ♪]] to return and serve people, to serve the people, raising the level of security and security of citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u8	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would very much like to congratulate the Minister on this commitment to restoring normality and restoring police posts that are so important to the citizen. Now I have this question to the Minister: Will these 176 stations that have been requested be restored and in what time? Why am I asking this question? Because today there is actually a huge threat among young people - alcoholism, drug addiction, drugs - and what I think is happening to me is a police station closer to the citizen, a school closer to the student. I wanted to ask what the cooperation between the police and schools in such educational activities would be like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u10	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Each of these reported locations, when it comes to the need to return stations, is analyzed individually, and so we will continue to do. In fact, the vast majority of these threats, or all of them, are justified. We're investigating the indicators that the police are measuring the level of security, we're investigating technical, local capabilities, but we're very supportive of these conclusions, knowing that police stations in the field, close to people, are needed to... Besides, this is also the implementation of our programme, which results from analyses, studies and beliefs. Other measures are also being implemented to raise the level of security and restore the police to the public - that is what this process can be called. Reactivation of police stations is part of the process of restoring the police to citizens, society, but there is more activity in this area. This other action, which is very important, is to strengthen the position of district police officers. We call them, like doctors, first-contact policemen. They must be closest to the people, that's their job in their neighborhoods. They're the ones who make contact with the residents, they're the ones who're supposed to recognize the dangers -- the personal threats, the field threats -- in their territory. This is a difficult function, because the function of a district police officer is interdisciplinary, combines elements of preventive action, but also other, related and related to the recognition of threats, and to the prevention of threats. Here you can list a whole spectrum of elements, tasks, reaching to criminal matters, so that this is a difficult role. We have therefore introduced the possibility of an internal promotion. The position of the senior district promoter has been established in terms of prestige in terms of the level of remuneration. We expect this to stabilize the district police in their roles for a long time. Another action, the element is the National Security Threat Map, an interactive IT tool that everyone can use, anonymously reporting information about threats. The police analyze, verify and respond to these reports by removing these threats. This is a very important element that uses modern Internet technologies in police contacts with the public to improve security. As far as education, schools and youth safety are concerned, this is one of the priorities of the police, especially the district police, although not only. Contacts with schools are natural, permanent, obvious. Meetings take place in schools, information meetings, meetings carried out within the framework of education and precisely [[♪ The bell ♪]] social prevention. So that these actions are really a lot. I don't have time to say more about them, but these are such selected, important examples indicating that the police are returning to people, being restored to society, being close to people and serving them well. Maybe the last sentence, 'cause time's up. Even the best-functioning police, who have a good understanding of threats and know a lot, always needs social support, because society knows something else and it's important that they want to know about threats with the police. And it's shared when there's trust. The police have increased citizens' trust. We will continue to work on this, because this is a very important element for security, an important task. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the question is asked by Mrs Anna Elżbieta Sobeck and Mr Wojciech Zubowski from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u12	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Legal information systems such as Lex or Legalis have been widely used for many years. They are used not only by law firms, but also by courts. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice does not allow courts to use more than one system. However, if a judge is to work efficiently and effectively, he must have adequate working conditions, which to a large extent consist of access to widely understood legal literature. A judge ruling in a district court must be given the opportunity to familiarise himself with a number of positions in order to apply substantive and procedural law correctly. Both Lex and Legalis provide access to other comments, magazines, literature or case law. The opinion of judges who have benefited from these two programmes for many years shows that they are indeed complementary to each other and not competitive. If access to comments, monographs, journals in electronic form is restricted, the work of a judge burdened with more and more responsibilities will deteriorate further. The above is therefore in favour of the need for judges to have access to both programmes in order to provide instruments for the best possible settlement of cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u13	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Patrick Jaki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u14	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! On 25 November 2016, the Ministry of Justice asked the President of the Public Procurement Office to give an opinion on the admissibility of the purchase of more than one legal information system for the determination of the procedure for the supply of legal information to the general courts for 2017. The procedure for the supply of software with a legal information system carried out by the Shopping Centre for the Judicial Tribunal in an open tender procedure has been launched in 2015 with a view to making a purchase for 2016 for all courts. On 30 November 2015, in the context of an appeal proceedings following an appeal by the contractor Beck sp. z o.o. The national Board of Appeal issued an unfavourable decision to the contracting authority under which the contracting authority had to significantly reduce the minimum requirements for the quantity of decisions and legal publication. This judgment was given despite the contracting authority's argument that the minimum requirements for the number of comments, decisions, publications and functionalities constitute legitimate needs of the courts. During the hearing the position was also presented that the reduction of the minimum requirements would not allow the purchasing needs of the contracting authority to be met. In view of the above, the contracting authority brought an action against the judgment of the National Board of Appeal at the District Court in Krakow on 21 December 2015. On 2 March 2016, that court delivered a judgment in which it failed to take account of the contracting party's complaint. In view of the above, the specifications of the essential terms of the contract have been amended accordingly, taking into account the settled decisions and amending the assumptions of the procedure, which currently covers the contract for 2017. The offers in the proceedings were submitted, first, by the consortium Beck sp. z o.o. with a gross price of PLN 2 869 388 and Wolters Kluwer SA with its registered office in Warsaw with a price of PLN 11 069 151.30. The price represented 50% of the evaluation criterion for tenders. Other points were offered for the content and functionality of the system. Following the evaluation of the tenders, including the exclusion of an abnormally low price for the most advantageous bid, the contracting authority selected the bid of the consortium Beck. The contractor Wolters Kluwer appealed against this decision, whose appeal was completely dismissed by the National Board of Appeal on 12 September. As a result, the contract for the supply of software with the legal information system was concluded with the consortium Beck. The procedure was conducted in an unlimited and competitive manner. At the same time, the contracting authority relied on the long-established position of the Public Procurement Office on the competitiveness of the legal information systems available on the market. The position of the Office in relation to the needs of the general courts shall be such as to permit the purchase of more than one system of legal information, even if such purchase appears justified on account of the needs of the general courts. The confirmed position of the President of the Public Procurement Office is, in principle, in line with the existing line of interpretation of the Authority concerning the competitiveness of legal information systems, according to which decisions have been taken in the past years in tendering procedures for the purchase of systems for universal courts. The Public Procurement Office once again pointed out that there is no basis for allowing the purchase of a system of legal information in the form of a free-of-charge contract and that the systems offered on the market are competitive with each other. According to the Authority, there is no monopoly on the market of the legal information system for one economic operator or one IT system and the programmes available are very similar. Similarly, although the content of both systems in part may be covered by exclusive rights, the fact that two economic operators are present on the market does not justify the use of the negotiated procedure. As regards the purchase of the legal information system for 2017, it does not appear possible to authorise the purchase of an additional system or to initiate a supplementary procedure in this respect. Nor will allowing the general courts to buy legal information systems on their own cause the problems to be eliminated. In addition to the high risk of breach of public procurement law, there may be a drastic increase in expenditure on the purchase of a system of legal information and further sanctioning the lack of competition on the publishing market. On the other hand, with regard to subsequent proceedings, the Public Procurement Office identified certain legal steps that could be taken in order to produce more than one legal information system and related to the amendment of the Public Procurement Law, which entered into force on 22 June 2016, e.g. by dividing the contract into parts, specifying in the specifications the essential terms of the contract the scope and subject matter of those parts and limiting at the same time the possibility for the contractor to submit a tender to only one part. It may be difficult to achieve one expected effect of purchasing more systems in this case without the risk of breaching public procurement rules, cost-effectiveness and fair competition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u15	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Anna Sobecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u16	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's all pretty complicated, but let me put it this way: stripping Lex's judges is like stripping a surgeon from a scalpel. Many judges point to the superiority of Lex over Legalis, arguing the above position as follows: in the Lex programme there is a much larger basis for Supreme Court and Administrative Court rulings. To some extent, the rulings on both bases do not overlap. The Lex program contains numerous comments, articles and monographs not available in the Legalis database. In Lex it is easy to use the functionality of configuring the current legal text with the selected [[♪ The bell ♪]] changes compared to the legal situation in force before the amendment. The Lex program has functionality...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u17	Thank you very much, Member. You've run out of time. Thank you very much. Mr Patrick Jak, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u18	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! The problem, Madam President, is that with most of the arguments raised by the judges, I agree, but I have no choice. As long as the Public Procurement Office considers these systems competitive, we cannot do any different. We're gonna have a discussion of how the office will change its position in the future, but until it does, unfortunately, we have no choice. An additional argument is that these systems, although I agree that one system has one number of comments, the other system has another number of comments, are generally similar. Please also pay attention to the prices. One system made an offer of 2 million with a piece, and the other system, which is similar, has other comments, but is similar, of 11 million. This is probably an argument for what the President of the Public Procurement Office is talking about. That's why it's a complicated legal problem, but right now we have no other choice. We will try to resolve this problem in the future through dialogue. Thank you. [[Minister, leave Lex to the courts. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u19	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: There was a tender.]] Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Ryszard Wilczyński and Tomasz Kostus from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On 9 January, we raised a question about the government's failure to respond to the hunger protest in Goodwill, a protest against the enlargement of Opole in particular to the area of the commune. At the time there was a protest in the Seym, there was no breakthrough when it came to starvation, and it was 14 days. Today's talks began, but the question of why the government, for which reasons the government, having influence on the situation, refused to meet protestors, remains valid because the Goodness community, because these people who protested, asked the question which sort of citizens thinks we are the government. They must be able to answer why it was only in the 16th century of the famine, where they had received only water for five days... Why wasn't there a reaction? I quote one of the protesters: the Opole authorities have expanded the boundaries of their city and forcefully want to turn the prognosis into an opal. 300 people will lose their jobs. We've been here over 360 hours because we're desperately asking you to listen to us and talk to us. Six of us have already taken an ambulance. We've only been drinking water for days. Prime Minister, last year you promised to talk to people, you promised to listen to them. Please, ma'am, talk to us. Does the government really think that people can protest 16 days starve for no reason? That question, unfortunately, remains unanswered. I demand, please, on behalf of those who have sacrificed, who have protested, to give them a convincing answer as to why it took so long. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u21	Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Sebastian Chwałek is the undersecretary of state in the Ministry of Interior and Administration. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u22	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! As you rightly pointed out, the meeting took place on January 16th this year, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak met protesting residents of the Great Cielonia in the presence of Bishop Czai, in the presence of the commune of Cielny, the President of the City of Opole and the Opole Voivodeship. At the meeting, the parties presented their positions. The result of this meeting was the appointment of the parties to conduct further negotiations, precisely in the form of mediation. An independent mediator is currently engaged in discussions between the parties on further arrangements for implementing the Regulation, possible amendments. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Council of Ministers, which is empowered to shape the borders of the municipality, chooses the most optimal solutions in this area. Each case is dealt with individually. This was the case in the case of changing the borders of the city of Opole. The decision was preceded by meetings and discussions with the local authorities concerned by the proposed change. An example is also the meeting held in June last year at the Ministry of Interior and Administration. The case was also examined in the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy of the Polish Sejm with the participation of representatives of interested local authorities. In addition, at the 31st meeting of the Polish Sejm on 1 December 2016, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration presented information on this change of the borders of the city of Opole and answered questions of parliamentarians. At the same time, it should be noted that the Opole Voivodeship, as a representative of the government in the field, met with local governments affected by the change of the borders of Opole city both during the process of the request to change the borders of Opole and after the decision of the Council of Ministers. Since February 2016, several such meetings have been held between the voivode and representatives of the commune, including protesters, starving in the Great Good. It is worth noting that, since September last year, the authorities of Opola have started talks with representatives of all the individuals concerned, whose aim is to establish procedures concerning matters arising from the change of borders, among others. as regards the acquisition of the assets, the arrangements for the operation of the budget of the local government units operating in the area of the municipalities of Dąbrowa, Łobień Wielki, Komprachcice, Prószków and the district of Opole, as well as the determination of possible needs of the municipalities of Dąbrowa, Łobień Wielki, Komprachcice, Prószków for additional funds in the so-called. the transitional period, in particular in 2017, which is linked to budgetary liquidity, the fulfilment of the standards of budgetary resolutions. The result of these meetings are among others. Resolution of the Council of the City of Opole of 27 October 2016 on the granting of financial assistance in 2017 to the municipality of Łódź Wielki for the amount of 9906.4 thousand. PLN and the municipality of Dąbrowa for PLN 1.8 million. As you know, the Member was the Opole Voivode, the Voivode is the highest representative of the government in the field. He was particularly empowered to meet protesters before a specific meeting with Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, so there is no situation in which the Council of Ministers did not respond or the government did not respond to protesters' requests. Nevertheless, in this particular situation, the voivode was not, so to speak, considered appropriate by the protesters. The laws of the Polish State clearly define its role in field activities. This caused a little unnecessary delay in the protesters' decision to end the protest. However, 16, actually 15. Even before it was finished... [[11.]] ...11. After the declaration of acceptance by Minister Błaszczak protesting the case was resolved. Thank you. [[Why is it only 11?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u23	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Kostus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u24	Dear Marshal, Minister! First of all, I'd like to clarify. Mr. Voivode met the protesters only on 1 January, and the talks were only taken two days later. That's one thing. Secondly, I repeat Mr Wilczyński's question: Why did we have to wait so long to take a stand, to answer the government? And thirdly, finally, I would like to ask the Minister: What's next? Do the government, do you have any concrete solutions, any proposals, any scenarios for protesters in the context of mediation with your Opole Voivodeship, so as to calm the emotions so as to resolve the conflict? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u25	Thank you very much. You will answer Minister Sebastian Gwałek again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Opolskie, as I said earlier, before the meeting with Minister Błaszczak, the Opole Voivode was authorized by the Minister to conduct these talks. Nevertheless, the protesters did not want to talk to the voivode about specifics and expected to receive or arrive representatives from Warsaw. It seems to me that the voivode is a very appropriate representative of the Polish state to meet protesters in this particular place, because she knows the specificities of the local situation and has full support - at this moment he had the full support of Minister Błaszczak in terms of the arrangements with the protesters. This explanation, I think, should be finished by now asking further questions, because it is only, you can say, the question of reception by protesters, who is more important: whether the voivode or Minister Błaszczak. In my opinion, the voivode is the person who should present the position of the government in the field. This is how the government tried to talk to protesters from the very beginning. The mediation will show what the further effects of the arrangements between the parties will be. The regulation is in force. At the moment, there are individual arrangements for taking over both the assets, as I said, as well as the responsibilities in the territory of the communities attached to the city of Opole. The conditions for possible financial support of individual municipalities are also agreed. The mediation will show what will be the final state. Both sides have to sort of get along in a way about the future. [[Financial support from the government, too, Minister?]] The parties here are the city of Opole and the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki. In this particular case - the Great Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u27	Thank you very much. Now another question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In mid-December, a regulation was published in the Official Journal amending the rules for the distribution of the basic grant to universities. That grant shall be granted on the basis of the algorithm set out in the Regulation. This is the main source of revenue, as the revenues from the didactics account for more than 3/4 of the revenue of public schools. In force from 1 January 2017 as part of the reform of higher education, on the basis of the new rules, the proposed division of... Universities will be preferred to adapt the number of students to the number of researchers employed. The proposed solution puts technical universities at a disadvantage. On the example of the Rzeszow University of Technology, I can say that this will result in a drastic reduction in the number of trained engineers. The same will happen in higher vocational schools in Tarnobrzeg or in Jarosław, which will lose significantly under new funding rules. One of the most important changes that have been made is to reduce the so-called changes. permanent transfer - part of the grant received by universities on the basis of the results of the previous year - from 65% to 50%. This will apply from 1 January 2018. The so-called "introduction" will be introduced. teaching accessibility rate. That's why I have questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much money will small universities lose in this new regulation? How much will the number of students decrease? How many small universities are just going to be eliminated for this? I would ask the Minister very much for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u29	Thank you very much. She corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Ms Teresa Czerwińska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as of 1 January 2017, new rules have been introduced for the distribution of the basic grant to public universities. However, I would like to stress that the changes made to the distribution of the basic grant to public universities place, above all, a greater emphasis on the quality of education, the quality of research carried out and the internationalisation of universities. Of course, the availability of academic staff for students, measured by the number of students and PhD students per academic teacher, is important in the new allocation algorithm. Public universities supervised by the Minister responsible for higher education are characterized by a very wide variation of this parameter, according to our estimates - from 7 to 27. Even in groups of homogeneous universities, such as polytechnic universities or pedagogical universities, there is a significant difference in learning availability. Universities where the number of students and PhD students per academic teacher is below the reference level set out in the Regulation will have a proportion of the grants resulting from the student-doctoral component under the applicable rules. On the other hand, in those universities where this relationship, this learning accessibility rate will significantly exceed the reference level, the grant will be significantly lower, depending, of course, on the scale of the exceedance. Another key element of the allocation of the algorithmic basic grant is the introduction for universities - this change does not apply to professional universities - in the staff component of the indicator of scientific potential. This indicator is determined on the basis of the Law on the Financing of Science and amounts to A+ - 1,5 for higher education institutions with category A - 1 and for categories B and C - 0,7 respectively. and 0,4. These scales are estimated as averages for the entire university on the basis of the units forming the university concerned. The indicator of scientific potential through the award of universities, which combine high quality research with education, will have a positive impact on the quality of education in a given university. The research activities of academic teachers are taken into account in the categories of scientific units, the number of quotes and the number of projects carried out or international cooperation is taken into account. At the same time, I would like to stress that, due to the stability of the funding of universities and the guarantee of their financial liquidity, a fuse has been introduced that stops the level of subsidies, i.e. does not allow for increases and decreases of more than 5% per year. This gives universities sufficient time to prepare for new funding rules without the need for economically and socially unjustified action. This means that the grant for a given university from January 2017 will consist of 57% permanent transfer - completely independent of current university parameters - and 50% since 2018. The rest, on the other hand, is a variable part, with a reservation I mentioned that the grant cannot be reduced or increased by more than 5%. From year to year. With regard to more detailed explanations regarding the losses of small universities, of course, if we assume that small universities are state-owned vocational schools, then given that the algorithm is distributed - and this is not a new thing, because the previous one was also of such a nature - i.e. with a similar financial envelope only the division is changed, we have estimated on the basis of data from 2015, which are most recent or reliable at the present time, that 14 vocational universities will receive or can obtain a smaller grant than in the previous year and 25 vocational universities will receive a higher grant than in the previous year. In the +/ range, on the other hand? 2% We estimate that it will be okay. 11 universities, i.e. 28% all vocational universities. For comparison in the previous algorithmic breakdown of the basic grant, including in the +/ range? 2% There were 16 universities, much more than 30%. I would also like to stress that if we take the line of reasoning from the Member that there are regional universities, i.e. small and large, and not good teaching and poor teaching or good and poor science, I can say that there are universities such as the UMK in Toruń or the University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, or the Częstochow University of Technology - these are only some examples - which will be divided according to the new algorithm, but there are also large universities, if we are already applying this type of division, which may receive a smaller grant as a result of the division. With regard to regional universities, if we can put it this way, that is to say to the region that you represent, two vocational universities, according to initial simulations, may lose here in terms of grants, while three vocational universities, universities in Sanok, Krosnie or Przemyśl, will gain from a new algorithm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak also asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u32	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! In theory, it sounds beautiful, and maybe the bills match -- 5% a year. less, year to year, but the next years go by and it's not 5% anymore, it's 10% or 15% less. I will use the example of the Rzeszow University of Technology, a very good university that educates very good professionals - 90% Graduates of this university find employment once they have completed it. For example, companies or conglomerates such as the Aviation Valley, which is developing through this, or Asseco Poland. According to the calculations of the rector that he presented to me, only next year will it be necessary to reduce the number of students by 742 at the Department of Aviation Machinery of the Rzeszow University of Technology. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and 700 people at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. These are powerful numbers of students, while they are good professionals, some of the best in the country...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u33	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u34	...and the level of education has been high for many years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u35	Thank you very much. She again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Ms Teresa Czerwińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u36	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! I would like to stress that when it comes to teaching accessibility, this is an indicator that is calculated for the whole university and not for the direction. Therefore, if the Member uses the example of the Rzeszow University of Technology, this reference value is for the entire Rzeszow University of Technology. I find it hard to believe that at the Rzeszow University of Technology, the rector will make completely irrational decisions, which means he will reduce the number of students in the fields where the specialists needed in the labour market are educated, needed for the development of our country. On the other hand, I would like to stress that also the Rzeszow University of Technology, but not only, and other universities in pursuit of massivity and subsidies on the so-called. each person, to each student admitted, has opened up a number of courses on which there is no employment, as well as those which are not positively verified by the labour market. So if we are referring to a particular example, then here rather - and the statements of universities also testify - following the new rules for the allocation of algorithmic grants there will be an overview of directions and those which are non-market directions, or those which have been massed, after which no employment was found on the labour market, should rather be extinguished. However, as I stress, this is a benchmark not for a specific direction, but for the whole university, and this requires rational action by the university authorities in particular directions. So I find that hard to agree with. On the other hand, I would also like to stress that when it comes to a concrete example, which is the Rzeszow University of Technology - of course, it is a great university with traditions that educates professionals to the labour market - it is not possible to demonize or talk about a risk to universities if there is a 5% fuse. On the other hand, the grant we are talking about in the case of the Rzeszow University of Technology - at the moment I am talking from memory - does not represent even 50% university revenue. So it's not really a 5% drop. the total revenue of the university, even if it were to occur, is only 5% from the part that the university receives from the teaching grant. I would also like to stress that when it comes to the decline in the number of students, this is a trend that is primarily demographic. In the last 10 years, if we look at statistics, the number of students has decreased by more than 28%, which is due to normal demographic trends. So here I would not assign an algorithm of such importance, which will cause a significant decrease in the number of students. Moreover, in terms of improving the relationship and learning availability, different paths are possible: both losing direction and hiring additional academic teachers at a given university to simply improve the quality of teaching. Thank you. [[We'll be asking questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u37	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczynski from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In my opinion, the technical condition and the low parameters of local roads depend mainly on two factors: firstly, adequate financial resources should be secured, secondly - this may be very important - care and leaning over these problems by local authorities. The former will always be missing, there will always be little, but in combination with the second factor and appropriate financial support programmes most problems can be solved. In this section I am discussing the subject of voivodship roads, which are managed by marshal offices. In the Chojnice district where I live, there is only one national road, the national road no. 22, while there are many voivodship roads, among which there are very poor roads of quality, e.g. Road 212. That's the bad road the oldest roadmen haven't seen, that's what we're talking about. I mention that Chojnice is a city more than 100 km away from the town of Gdansk Voivodeship. It is road 212 towards Bytov, while from Bytov to Słupsk no 210, road 235 Chojnice - Korne, the road of the voivodeship no 201 from Szczecin to Black, which runs further to Barkow to the national road no 22 - is very dangerous, narrow, without possibility of laying, which is important, pedestrian lines, and there also live people, that is the south of Pomeranian voivodeship - or the road Czarne - Rzeżenica. Probably the road manager, the Marshal's office, willing to get rid of some roads. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two questions for the Minister. First: Is there any way to improve these roads through the ministry? What are the possibilities of converting voivodship roads into national roads, e.g. 222, 235? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u39	Thank you very much. Before we hear the answer, I just wanted to say hello to the members of the Kirkland program who are at the gallery, [[Applause]] as well as the guests from Wed, who, I understand, are on the second. [[Applause]] We're very pleased. Mr Jerzy Szmit is now responding to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Before I answer the question asked, maybe a few words about the road network in Poland and in general the situation, especially as regards local government roads. The total network of public roads in Poland is close to 420 thousand. km, and the national roads are less than 20,000. km, so less than 5% The whole network. True, national roads carry 60% traffic, however 95% these are self-government roads and the question about the state of local roads is most justified, especially since the NIK report, which described the state of local roads last year, actually showed them a very bad condition, showed the huge needs that are to improve this state of local roads. But maybe he's already referring to specific questions. As far as local government roads are concerned, as a government, we have two options for direct support for road construction on local roads. First of all, it is a programme of development of the municipal and district road infrastructure network for the years 2016-2019. 3800 million PLN is guaranteed for this. As far as this programme is concerned, there are five criteria that decide on the allocation of the resources requested by individual local authorities. This is primarily about municipal and district authorities. And specifically in the previous year, 2016, 800 million zlotys were distributed. In the first period, 492 tasks from individual municipalities and powiats were selected in the first applications, while a total of 850 tasks were carried out, of which 538 were carried out on municipal roads and 311 were carried out on district roads. For this year, 2017, the deadline for submitting applications was 15 September. They were considered and the letters were approved by 31 December. The limit available for this year is also 800 million PLN. The second possibility to finance or co-finance local roads is the provision for general subsidies. In 2016 335 million PLN was allocated for this. It has been used in its entirety, a total of 347 tasks have been carried out. The latter reserve is particularly suitable for the voivodship roads that you have been asking about, particularly as regards bridge objects, because one of the main objectives for which this reserve is operational is to support modernisation, to assist repairs or even sometimes to build bridge crossings. On the other hand, as regards the question of the possibility of retraining roads from voivodships to national roads, it is a possibility. The proposal in this case should be submitted by the Management Board of a particular voivodship to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction or possibly to the Minister responsible for Transport. This proposal is then assessed by the General Director of National Roads and Motorways, and the decision must be made by the end of the third quarter of the year in order that from next year onwards, from 1 January, the road can change its qualification to the national road. This, of course, must be properly motivated, considered, because the point is not only to change the category, but only to make sure that the justification and change actually improve the coherence of the road network, to maintain it. But please bear in mind that together with such, only such mechanical transfer, even a decision, the resources of the general management are not increasing, but they simply need to be divided differently. Formally, this possibility exists, but the initiative lies here on the side of the management board of the voivodship. On the other hand, I would also like to say with regard to one of the proposals that you have put forward... Namely the circumstances of increasing expenditure on self-government roads. Yes, of course. We know that the demand that local governments are reporting today, when they write applications for funding, would be about PLN 2 billion. This is less today, given these two programmes, and I therefore fully agree with this conclusion that there is a need to increase local government funding. We think, we work on such solutions, but whenever we enter into the financial sphere, into the sphere of sharing or making new commitments, or the division of the budget, which is, always problems are understandable, because they are never indifferent to the budget or to the financial market or to society, to the citizens. But we see the problem undoubtedly and we realize that we need to show a program that [[♪ The bell ♪]] indicates the possibility of increasing local government funding.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mr Jan Kielian, Mr Kilian, I am sorry, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Municipal and district roads are considered the most dangerous roads in the public road network in Poland. This is due to their poor technical condition, in many cases they do not meet the safety parameters. This programme, which the Minister was talking about, which is being implemented for the years 2016 and 2019, provides for this sum of very serious, less than PLN 4 billion. However, these are thin, however, for the current needs of resources. The running programme 50-50 saves this situation, but due to the extensive network of municipal and district roads, the poor financial condition of local authorities, especially non-urban ones, where the network of roads is the largest, the aid seems insufficient. During various meetings, the voters see a discrepancy at the rate of development of local and supra-local roads, asking questions about the possibility for the Ministry to support the development of municipal and district roads. Such actions [[♪ The bell ♪]] they are part of the building of Poland's sustainable development. Will it be possible, depending on the needs of the voivodship, to transfer funds from one programme to another?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u43	Thank you very much. Once again, Minister Jerzy Szmit is answering. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u44	What we have today, as a government, as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction... The budget law does not allow us to move from one programme to another today. On the other hand, these are not the only sources of support for local roads. There are regional operational programmes which have individual voivodships, individual local authorities, sejmics, management boards, marshals, and I think this is a natural source that should support road construction and modernisation of roads and their repair in individual voivodships. This is the sense of the functioning of local governments, so that they themselves determine where the roads require the greatest support. However, undoubtedly, once again I stress this, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction is fully aware that there is a need for increased funds for modernization, construction, repair of Polish roads. But it's not just that. Work is ongoing, the team of experts was appointed by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk in June last year. Today we're very close. I hope that in these days we can finally negotiate, because these are very difficult talks - on the one hand there are contractors, and on the other hand there are representatives of local governments, there is a general management - a model contract for road works, for road construction. I think that, for example, the completion of this element, the development of such an agreement, in which the interests of the contracting authority, local authorities and also the interests of contractors will be secured, in order to create a normal, healthy building market, is also extremely important. Another issue that we are working on is the issue of animal protection, and basically animal protection devices, to pass for animals. We know that here are very expensive sometimes, most often very expensive buildings that consume huge funds, and we want to lead on the one hand to a situation where we can say that animals are properly protected, and that the funds that go for it are also rationalized - as much as is really necessary. And another issue - we want to present as opportunities some typical solutions of road construction, bridge constructions, technological solutions. It will be very useful here, which the High House wanted to adopt at the end of last year, concerning the creation of a minister of infrastructure and construction, the possibility of making such recommendations, such standards as will also help local governments to make rational recommendations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] spending existing and functioning funds and existing funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u45	Thank you very much. That's where we ended this part. Thank you, Minister. Now the question is asked by Mrs Monika Wielichowska from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, and I am very pleased to see you in the Chamber of Parliament, Minister of the Government's proxy for equal treatment, because he may have brought with him a motion to give up the convention he wrote to the Ombudsman. But maybe from the beginning, because there's a need to systematize here, which is why I have a few questions about the anti-violence convention. Minister, I wanted to ask you why the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Mr Łukasz Piebiak, lied on 15 December 2016 from the Parliamentary Speaker in response to our current question, claiming that the government had not decided to terminate the anti-violence convention. Why, in response to my interpellation, but also to a group of envoys from the Civic Platform Club, which also concerned work on the declaration of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Elżbieta Bojanowska lied, claiming that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy did not carry out any work aimed at abandoning the above convention by Poland? I ask not without a kozera, because the present representative of the government for equal treatment Adam Lipiński, in response to the Ombudsman's letter, informed that a draft request for termination of the Convention, together with a justification, had been received by the Ministry of Justice on 28 November 2016 and was sent to inter-ministerial arrangements. The draft of this proposal was prepared by the Ministry of Justice, and I am also asking when this proposal will be made public, because I would like to see it as a Member of the Sejm, but they also want to get acquainted with organisations, associations, foundations dealing with the rights of women who help women. And finally, I wanted to ask, when the government is telling the truth, and when it's lying, [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the Seym Speaker - in response to the interpellation or in response to the Ombudsman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u47	Mr Adam Lipiński is the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government wasn't lying. It is a pity that the Member did not check these cases first, and is now making such an accusation. I'll answer these questions one at a time. Why the government started working on the termination of the anti-violence convention - that was the first question. The government is not working to denounce the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011, despite the request made by the Ministry of Justice. The document has remained unattended and is not being processed. By the way, Commissioner, I have already responded to a few of your speeches on this matter, and you know it very well, but once again I am answering it. Why was Mr Piebiak's Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice lying - why such statements, Mrs Piebiak - on 15 December from the Parliamentary Speaker in response to current questions, claiming that the government had not decided to terminate the anti-violence convention? He did not decide to denounce the anti-violence convention - where is the lie? During this speech, which can be read in the report of the Sejm meeting on 15 December, Minister Piebiak admitted that there are discussions among the members of the government which he himself initiated, but there is no position and decision on this matter, stating: They're rolling, but no decision has been made. The government has not decided to denounce the anti-violence convention. That's it, period. Where is the lie here, Member? Where's the lie? This means that, following an analysis and discussion, the government did not decide to denounce the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul, etc. The third question is why, in response to the interpellation on the work on the termination of the Convention, the Undersecretary of State of Elżbieta Bojanowska lied - again: she lied, and she did not lie - claiming that in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, there are no works in progress aimed at Poland's withdrawal from the above Convention. You don't do that kind of work. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of the Family, Ms Elżbieta Bojanowska, presented the position of the Ministry in accordance with the facts, as no work has been or has been carried out in the Ministry to terminate the Convention. This is also due to the statement by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Mr Piebiak in December that there is no cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Family in the context of the termination of the anti-violence convention. She did not lie, Madame - they do not go there and there have been no work. If the government's proxy for equal treatment, which is my humble person, in response to the Ombudsman's letter, informs that there was an initiative by the Ministry of Justice, then when the request with justification will be made public. As I pointed out in the answer to the question, the government is not doing any work to make a statement - once again I will say the same thing, so I will not repeat it again. Madam President, the government does not want to denounce this convention. I feel as if the opposition wanted us to say this convention, Madam, because once again you are asking this question. I don't know, you're gonna force this on us, are we gonna say this convention? There's no work going on. There was an initiative from the Ministry of Justice, the government didn't take the issue, the case was over. That's it, period. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u49	Thank you very much. I see that the Member has not prepared herself for the questions. [[I'm ready.]] Are you asking another question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u50	Thank you very much. With all due respect, Mr Marshal, it was the Minister who did not prepare himself because the Minister answered the questions that you did not ask. The Minister had a pre-prepared reply card and answered, in principle he read the answers to questions that she had not asked. In this connection, I have a request to the Minister that, when this discussion is over, he may be familiar with the recording of these questions and have some reflection, because I think the basic principle should be that the Minister listens to the questions asked. That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, I would like to ask whether it is true that a draft request for termination of the Convention, together with the justification sent to the inter-ministerial arrangements by the Ministry of Justice, was received by the Government's representative for equal treatment on 28 November 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Lipiński again responds. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u52	I answer the questions of the messengers who have been handed over to me. I had to be precise because I had to quote the speeches, which is why part of my speech was written on a card. Of course, it is true, and I have repeatedly said that the Ministry of Justice has taken such an initiative. There are three bodies that deal with this: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Family and a government representative. The Ministry of Justice took such an initiative. This initiative was not taken by a government representative or by the Ministry of the Family. There was no government decision on this case, it just doesn't exist. [[But she was.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u53	Minister, please don't discuss this with the ladies in the courtroom. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Lipiński: Sorry, that's just one more explanation. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Lipiński: There was a ministry initiative, the government didn't take the case. The case is closed. I would ask you not to send me any more interviews on this matter, Madam Member, because I really have had to give many answers. Thank you very much. [[We're still gonna be corresponding.]] We can just have a chat in the cockroaches. Thank you very much, Minister. The question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Szumilas from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish education system has been demolished rapidly. By the end of March, local governments are to establish a new school network. They have very little time for this, especially since they have to adopt two resolutions: first a draft and then a resolution, which will be a resolution defining this new school network. They have very little time to consult their parents and teachers. However, the curator from this short time It takes them at least 21 days, because that's how long the probation officer got to consult the resolutions. It is not true what the Minister said, that the reforms will not be noticed by parents and students, because the liquidation of not only middle school but also of other schools: elementary schools, high schools, vocational schools has also begun. Self-governments are alarmed that they don't have money to reform, they don't have money to maintain 8-grade primary schools, to equip them. They say that MEN is forcing them to close schools that the reform was not intended to involve because it does not provide funding for this reform. These problems concern large cities and small towns. Radom, Kielce, Chorzów, Szczecin, Trzcińsko-Zdrój, Iwkowa - these are places where there is a huge problem with building a new school network. Today, parents, teachers, students are on holiday because it's spring break. When they get back from spring break, they can suddenly find out that the child won't go to that school where he's been taking education for the last six years. One of the councilmen, I think, at the meeting of the Szczecin Education Commission, said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that reform is the flood of the millennium: it will pass, it will leave destruction, and we must move on and rebuild what the Minister of National Education will destroy. Why would you lie to reality? Why don't you answer your parents, your teachers? Why are you destroying the Polish education system?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u55	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u56	Mr. Marshal! Dear Parliamentaries! It's all not true. Education law has become a fact. When we worked on the Law of Education, for the first time in history, before the 16th of September the law became a fact, voivodeships, curators, visitors began to meet with residents. Voivodeships met with local government officials, curators and visitors with directors, teachers. They showed what the law looked like, explained it. Even before the Law of Education came into force, they wondered how to support their parents, how to demonstrate model solutions. These meetings were almost 1500. We have a diagnosed situation throughout Poland. At the same time, at the end of November, there was an information package in each school. We've launched a website. We received 80 to 100 e-mails a day to answer, but we also listened. Among other things, during these meetings the local government asked - for ease, because it could not be in the form of an annex to the bill - that the Ministry and the legal department, because we worked with many local authorities, with large cities, show how this resolution should look. That is also what we have done. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, local governments are actually ready. In most of these local governments, the Minister has been diagnosed with the situation, and discussions are still under way. These are exemplary self-governments who know what their responsibilities are. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remind the citizens of Poland that it was the constitution and the laws that divided our responsibilities. The Ministry of National Education, education grants are responsible for teachers and children, while local governments are involved in taxes, collect taxes on their citizens, various types of fees and fees to be responsible for buildings, equipment. We are concerned that for 17 years of implementation of the middle school, when there was an ongoing discussion on the relevance of this reform, only 25% of the the offices concerned. At the moment we started consulting, talking with the Copernicus Science Center, to actually build a program so that at least one such office could be in each school. Last years - huge billions of zlotys for digitization of Poland and several percent of schools in which there is broadband Internet according to the 21st century. We already have the whole concept, the whole plan, the money ready. We are running out of tenders to actually have broadband Internet and Wi-Fi in school within two years. At the same time, we have a concept and a plan for media boards to appear in each class. The 21st century is not only computer science, 70 hours more computer science throughout the cycle, but also Internet access in every lesson. A Polish scientist, a mathematician, a physicist, is supposed to have the Internet at their disposal to use it as a source. In 2018 the Ministry wants to have a tender in order to take over management, or actually finance in any school of the Internet and programs. This is what civilized countries do so that an IT, physicist or polonist does not have to ask the director for additional money to update the program. As far as these updates are concerned, this will be done clearly, unambiguously and quickly, and at the same time we will be able to take care of really large millions and large cybersecurity programs, because we will apply appropriate applications that will block access to inappropriate content. At the same time, she has allowed herself to be lied to. The particularity does not foresee any liquidation, it is only information about what the school network will look like. There will be a transformation of middle school, because that's what we call primary school, general high school, industry school, or tech school. There will be one resolution by March 31st. There will be five years to adapt to this network, there will be a lot of money. Those cities you mentioned are often numbered. We were in Szczecin, showing extra jobs, extra jobs. We showed money for a six-year-old in a kindergarten that's gonna stay there, and 1.5 billion responsibilities from education grants for the community's own task. We showed money for valorization. At the same time, for 2 months together with trade unions, with local governments, experts from the Ministry of Education, we have been working on the shape of the teacher's professional promotion, the training of a professional teacher, and finally on the increase, because I remind you that for the first time since 2012 there has been a valorization. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As the Prime Minister has declared the solidarity of teachers, in April we will present the whole concept, the whole plan and schedule of increases for teachers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u58	Thank you very much. Now, Minister, let me be honest with you, you've been bravo about your answer, because you're not answering the questions we've asked, saying that what we're passing on is a lie. Take a look at the press. Municipal Councils, Municipal Councils are held. There are councilmen, parents, teachers, lots of emotions. Suddenly, it does not disturb you that the building of the current middle school, as you said, will have a transformed primary school and a 7-year-old child who will not have a toilet adapted to their capabilities, age and growth. You've been screaming very loudly over the last two terms, that it's just unacceptable. I would like to ask: When the first-grade students enter the middle school building from September 1st, under what conditions will these children learn? You deliberately used such a verbal procedure: there will be no liquidation, there is a transformation. That's my question: will there be middle school since September 1st? Since 1 September 2019 they will disappear at all, and you think it's just a transformation. There's no books, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The parents are aware that they don't know where their children will be studying since September 1st...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u59	Thank you very much. The Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u60	...and tells the minister about the raises that will be since, I don't know, 2018...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u61	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u62	...realized since April...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u63	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u64	...or fixed in April. It's another abuse, too, not to use harsher words.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u65	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u66	The Government of Law and Justice is the first government that doesn't write rules and doesn't think it's going to happen the same way. Even though local government officials are to adopt resolutions, there are visiting authorities, curators. As far as these media events are concerned, we're there immediately. Little of that, we know about them earlier, before they write about it, to be with their parents, actually very often annoyed with political statements, who have the right things to do. various kinds of concerns about whether they are concerned. That's what we're here for. We'll be with these parents until March 31st, September 1st, we'll be the Ministry of Education all the time. Hence the Minister's coordinator for the implementation of the reform, hence the team for the implementation of the reform in the Ministry of Education, hence the curators, who meet with the media every Friday to inform each other about the events that need to be returned to, hence the visitors at individual meetings and meetings. That's one thing. Secondly, the money for the transformation is. In addition to 1.5 billion for a six-year-old in kindergarten, as I said, in addition to 418 million for the benefit of the teacher's salary, we have 900 million dedicated to conversion and at the same time we have 170 million in the budget reserve. I would like to say to the Members that we closed that year with a historic event. For the first time in the budget reserve - 0.4% - all requests from local authorities have been completed in full. As you know, most junior high schools were based on primary schools. There is no major problem with adjustment, but we know that money will be needed, so we found it in the budget, we show it in education subsidies and reserves. We are at the disposal of local governments. We're counting with them. Sometimes these amounts that are falling are linked to different expectations, sometimes we differ in the assessment of the amount of these precisely falling amounts when converting. At the same time, it really is a transformation. It just doesn't have a name. The building stays, the directors stay, the teachers stay. In addition, we show an additional 5,000. jobs. And we're believable because even though you were scaring your parents, they were scaring the teachers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the bill on six-year-olds, although you were talking about losing $7,000. jobs, there was an additional thousand. Our common challenge is more than demographic. And at the same time I have this full declaration: The Ministry of Education is at the disposal of all club presidents. We are able to train you at any time. Open your offices, like the Members of the United Right, to support teachers, parents, in order to implement the Education Law, which is already a fact. Thank you very much. [[Our offices are open, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u67	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs... [[And I suggest you get down on the ground because you have virtual money, they're not in the local government.]] Madame, you have no voice right now. Please don't interfere with the proceedings. [[Then answer the questions and tell the truth.]] The question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's topic, which I want to raise, is the theme of building museums with targeted grants, which were very high. Two questions to the Minister: Is it true that the director of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk built a hotel complex with luxury apartments? And the second question: Is it true that this director purchased appliances illegally, contrary to public procurement regulations? If so, what was the amount? These two rather detailed questions are a reason for questions and conclusions raised in the context of the construction and maintenance of museum complexes in 2007 and 2015 under the government of the PO-PSL coalition and concern not only this particular museum, but also the few that were created at that time. By the way, I am very sorry that the Silesian Museum was not subject to control by NIK last year. If the allegations raised in the questions are confirmed, this will be the result of irresponsible management of state finances. These were the standards of public spending and officials were eager to benefit from these standards. They forgot because they were allowed to do so, that your horse's eye is fattening. The horse got fat on the taxpayer's penny, only the question is, whose horse was it? Minister, I would like to ask you to answer these questions in detail. And I think it's similar in the context of other museums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u69	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin, is responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u70	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The museum, which you have been particularly interested in - and a specific issue related to the construction of this museum - the Museum of the Second World War in Gdansk was founded in 2008, was to be opened in 2014. It's not open until today. Originally planned for the construction of this museum 360 million PLN in a long-term government program. This amount was changed to PLN 450 million. It is so far the most expensive museum in Poland's history, although still unbuilt until the end, unopened and unbuilt. In answer to your specific question about how you put it, the construction of this museum of a hotel complex with luxurious apartments, I would like to inform you: indeed, on the occasion of the construction of this museum, 8 apartments were built together with transport lines, located on the first floor and in the part of the second floor of the museum building. This complex includes 5 rooms and 3 two-storey apartments, the largest of which has almost 110 m2. These rooms are equipped with fully decorated bathrooms, bedrooms, seating sets, radio and television equipment. Each apartment consists of kitchen, dining room, living room, two bathrooms, two bedrooms, a dressing room, and they are equipped with household appliances and radio and television equipment. In answer to the second question, about the purchase of specific equipment, whether it was against the law of public procurement, how much it cost, I will use a section of the post-control statement carried out by the employees of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage including the museum in June, July and August Ub. R.: In the course of the audit, the implementation of the main contracts relating to this investment in construction or additional works and equipment has been analysed, which has shown, inter alia, that under the contract, the contracting authority has ordered the purchase of, inter alia, the purchase from its own hands. such objects as - and we are talking about museums - kitchen buildings, wardrobes, hangers, library bookshelves, liquor shelf, tables, desks, chairs, pouffes, carpets, pots, beds, sofas, refrigerators, washing machines, hoods, ovens, televisions, microwaves, curtains for windows, window blinds, as well as many other equipment and components that were not indicated in the basic contract. This contract is not intended to repeat the same type of contract as in the basic contract, since the said equipment, the supply elements did not exist in the basic contract. In addition, doubts are also raised about the value of the individual equipment or materials indicated and negotiated by the contracting authority in costories, as some verified unit amounts were well above market prices. That's all I just presented is a quote from a post-control document from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u71	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u72	Minister! Thank you so much for such a thorough response. However, I have this question: Would it be possible for NIK to control other museums? For as far as I know, many pathologies have been created at the Silesian Museum. In my interpellations as councilwoman of the Seym, I took into account the problems closely related to the construction, because this museum is located in the ground, there are flows of water, now it is confirmed. I have this question: Would it be possible to control this museum and others that have not yet been checked? I believe that public money that is being spent must be very carefully spent and that it must also be intended to spend it. Finally, I wanted to thank you very much for the historical policy of the Polish state, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because last year, this is the topic that we discussed very well. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u73	Thank you very much. Minister Jarosław Sellin again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u74	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With regard to the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber, of course, the Supreme Audit Chamber asks each year for suggestions on the annual control plan. Of course, to a rather limited extent, because the Supreme Audit Chamber cannot be flooded with a multitude of such control plans, several ideas or several entities are always reported to the Supreme Audit Chamber by each resort. We, of course, make such applications. Let me answer you in writing, which we reported for 2017, because I just wasn't prepared. And that's exactly what I don't remember. However, if you believe that a specific museum should be subject to scrutiny, because there are some disturbing situations, you can also ask the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage for ministerial control, not only NIK-owska, but also ministerial control. [[Good.]] If there are reasonable and convincing reasons for such a check, it is always possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Mr Piotr Kalet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! A little bit of a change of subject. The issue concerns the breeding of American minks in Poland. This is a problem which is increasingly and probably more frequently reported by the inhabitants of our villages. I would like to refer to a specific example, which is from my constituency. It is the southern part of Wielkopolska, specifically the Kalisk-Leszczyński district. It is about the town of Zosin in the municipality of Kępno, where it is planned or in fact the construction of a farm of American minks has already begun. This issue raises a lot of controversy, but above all a lot of protests from the inhabitants of this community, who fear, not without reason, the significant negative impact of farms on the environment, underground water, surface water and on health and comfort of life. The information available to the public shows that the activity of such a farm causes odour emissions, which attracts insects and is a very heavy burden for local residents. Let me remind you that the American mink is a species that lives wildly in North America, so by nature it is a species that is simply alien to Poland and also to Europe. Mr. Marshal! Therefore, a short, simple question: Are there any planned changes to the legislation so that the breeding of these American minks in any quantity is counted among projects that can always have a negative impact on the environment? Are there also some typically construction technical regulations planned to prevent the expansion of this activity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u77	Thank you very much. Responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ms Ewa Lech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Let me say this: issues related to animal farms where there are high densities and are a burden for the environment, especially for the inhabitants, are indeed a problem that has arisen for years and more and more are being protested about the constructions that appear. On the other hand, the question you have asked relates mainly to the Ministry of Infrastructure. Let me put it this way: with regard to matters relating to the location, construction and operation of livestock facilities, these cases are governed by eight laws. I will mention them so that we can have a picture of how complicated this matter is: the Land Planning and Land Planning Act, the Construction Law, Environmental Law, the Environmental Information and Protection Act, the Public Participation in Environmental Protection and Environmental Impact Assessments, then the Fertilization and Fertilisation Act, the Animal Health Act and the Fight against Diseases of Impaired Animals, the Animal Farming Organisation and Distribution Act and the Animal Protection Act. In short, in the capacity of the Minister of Agriculture, the last four laws, which basically regulate the conditions, mainly veterinary, in which these animals are to be kept, lay down the requirements that must be met in order to limit the suffering of these animals to be free from pain and hunger. The same area as the Minister for Agriculture actually reflects the definition of a farm animal. A farm animal is any animal kept, fattened or bred by man and used for the production of food, wool, fur, feathers, hides and skins and used for the production of any other product obtained from animals or animals. This group also includes equidae. This definition defines the interests of the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture has not changed his position on the disagreement with the treatment of American mink and poultry for years, and here we are talking about poultry farms, as livestock or as removal from the list of livestock, and he does not agree that the Minister of the Environment has involved these animals, we are talking about the American mink here, on the list of alien species, i.e. those released into the environment may endanger our native species. As regards these characteristics of the Minister of the Environment, pursuant to the Animal Protection Act, regulations are issued on the control of infectious animal diseases, which strictly specify the conditions under which these animals are to be kept, and this is checked by the veterinary inspection forces, which shall carry out such inspections at a specified frequency in their schedules. Often the Minister of Agriculture is flooded with letters from various organizations opposed to such industrial farms, maintaining industrial fur animals. There is a very distorted picture in the publicists when it comes to these farms, while from an economic point of view, even ecologically, fur animals, including American minks, are such a natural rendering tool. It should be stressed, High Sejm, that in terms of fish processing, as far as meat establishments are concerned, some of these UPZs, so-called. by-products of animal origin, is oxidized by fur animals. In order not to be literal, I will say that in 2015 fish processing plants disposed of 320 t of waste through fur animals, and that, as it turns out, which is strange, decides that this industry is cost-effective. The same is true of 400 thousand. t of post-mortem waste has been used for feed for fur animals. So this is a multi-level problem. Of course, I would like to stress that, as far as these nuisances are concerned, the problems with the agreement to build new farms or operate, the operation currently in operation, is not just the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture. I would like to say that not only do we receive protests from those who oppose the operation of such farms, but also there are numerous appeals from local governments, which indicate that there are a lot of people working in these farms, especially in those farms that were created on the site of former PGRs. There is unemployment and people find employment, so here it is difficult for us to address this completely negatively. On the other hand, the Minister for Agriculture is really focused on ensuring that these animal by-products are used as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In order not to get into the details, let me say this: given that Polish law has laws and there is a system for the protection of inhabitants and the environment, the problem is mainly that the rules are respected, correctly applied and enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. The extra question is... There will be no further question. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The last few weeks have brought a violent winter attack. Weather conditions are particularly severe for homeless people. What measures are being taken by the Ministry to help them and to have easier access to accommodation and a warm meal? This is important in a situation where in previous years help for homeless people has sometimes taken strange forms. For example, a portal for those in need of assistance, including homeless people, could be used if they had access to the computer and the Internet and a trusted ePUAP profile or e-signatures. What measures are being taken by the Ministry at the moment to ensure that homeless people receive real and good help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u81	Thank you very much. Responsible for the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u82	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The statutory obligation to provide shelter or food and the necessary clothing in accordance with the Social Assistance Act, in accordance with Article. 17 belongs to the tasks of the municipalities themselves. Nevertheless, the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy conducts cover-up and support activities for both local self-government units and non-governmental organisations, and among these activities should be mentioned among others. a programme to support homelessness, which is a complementary programme to the resources provided by local authorities, and is intended to financially support the best projects aimed at tackling homelessness and helping homeless people. About 5 million PLN is allocated to its implementation and it takes place in the form of a competition. Another programme is the "Active forms of anti-social exclusion" programme - a new dimension of 2020. I would also like to say that, within the framework of the operational programme, FEAD food aid, which is financed by the European Fund for the Most Deprived, homeless people can receive food packages and meals without any criteria. In June 2016, 26,670 homeless people participated in the sub-programme. In view of the winter season during which the health and life of homeless people are at risk, who are unable to provide a warm shelter or a meal, the family minister asked, after the first frosts in October last year, to ask all the voivods to prepare for the winter period as well as to coordinate their efforts to help the homeless or the poor. In addition, several times we have posted, led the appeals - Don't be indifferent! You see - react - call!!!, in which we reminded you of paying attention especially to people who might need this help. Because it's not just about the homeless, it's about the lonely, sick people who live in the house themselves. Also in January, during this strong wave of frost, a letter was sent to the President of the Polish Episcopate Conference asking for sensitization of society, among others. during pastoral visits or during other contacts with the faithful, sensitizing not only to the fate of homeless people, but also to the elderly, lonely or disabled, who may need this help during a period of severe frost. I would also like to mention that at night from 8 to 9 February there will be another edition of the nationwide survey of the number of homeless people and to this end in mid-January a letter will be sent to the voivodships on the coordination of this issue. I would also like to point out that the Ministry is working closely in the area of crisis management both with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and with the Government Security Centre. It should also be noted that in response to the Ministry's appeal - this appeal addressed to the voivodships - the voivodships sent requests, letters to the authorities, all local authorities, the police voivodship headquarters, and the services under them, in which they drew attention to the need to check the condition of the preparation of accommodation facilities for the adoption of an increased number of homeless people, but also the constant monitoring of the situation related to the provision of shelter for these people. We have repeatedly pointed out that in actions to protect homeless people from loss of health or life during the winter, it is necessary to cooperate with all services: police, city guards, municipal guards, employees of social assistance centres. The form of protection of homeless people from death as a result of the cooling of the organism is often preventive controls of places where these persons may be present: stairways, heating ducts, abandoned dwellings or gardens. In the event of disclosure of such persons, if they so wish, they shall be delivered to accommodation facilities, shelters or heating rooms and may receive the necessary assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u83	Thank you very much. Now an additional question is asked by Anna April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u84	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask about homeless people who often have major health problems, because, as we know, they are very often neglected from the health side, and although they cannot take care of themselves because of health problems, they go to a shelter, to an accommodation unit. This case has not yet been settled from the legal side. Very often such people should go to social services homes, but here is a matter of procedural decision making, determining the profitability of such a person or even deprivation... even the judicial issues that need to be made here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They make it impossible for such a person to go there, but they go to a place to stay or a shelter. Do you think...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u85	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u86	...to change the rules of law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u87	You are again responding to the Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Elżbieta Bojanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u88	That is to say, in the previous term of office, the Social Assistance Act was amended, which states that people who are unable to function alone cannot stay in facilities such as a hostel. Or a place to stay. However, this concept was not defined at the time, and this raises a number of doubts, because it must be said that neither old age nor disability nor average illness disqualifies from being in a hostel or a hostel. On the other hand, with regard to being independent - when a person is unable to do anything about himself, these institutions are unable to take care of such a person. However, it seems that these provisions contain a loophole, because when someone wants to get into a social assistance home, to a health care and medical facility, these procedures are ongoing, and we are in contact with NGOs and I think that this issue needs to be regulated or clarified so that there is no doubt, but I would like to stress that in a situation of severe frost, in emergency situations, when people are threatened with human life, such people can also be in these facilities as much as possible. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u89	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the actions to which the government is obliged will be considered at this session of the Sejm and the plans to eliminate the problem of smog, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will be presented. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Although the request for information was addressed to the Prime Minister, I understand that on behalf of the Prime Minister we will get an answer and a comprehensive explanation. The request for current information was based on the fact that in recent days we have observed a significant risk of health safety of Poles associated with a very poor condition of air quality in a significant area of the country. Let me remind you that this phenomenon has not occurred for the first time and has been happening for many years. The request for information is mainly linked to the fact that the government is responsible for the security of the state, for the safety of Poles, including health security, for the government, especially since the Prime Minister has declared urgent action and has made appropriate recommendations that would allow for a relatively rapid and effective solution to this problem, in which Poland unfortunately is leading, not only on a European but also on a global scale. I would like to remind you that in 2008 regulations were introduced called the CAFE Directive, which is subject to quite restrictive testing and reduction of PM10 and PM2.5 dust emissions and accompanying dioxins in the air emitted. Given the rank and importance of this problem, I would like to remind you that the previous government has carried out extensive work on both diagnostics and proposals for solutions that would bring our country closer together... which would cause Poles to breathe healthy and clean air. I would like to remind you that, at the end of the term of office, following long consultations and analyses in September 2015, a national air protection programme was adopted by the previous government to bring air status in line with both the current CAFE Directive and the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, with a view to 2030, as we are all aware that for many reasons - technical and social - this is not a problem that can be solved in the short term. This national air protection programme has been maintained, its recommendations and weight have also been underlined by the current environmental resort. In numerous correspondence conducted by the Minister of the Environment or on his behalf, among others. the Committee on the Environment of the Sejm stressed the importance of this programme and, at the same time, the establishment of a steering committee for the implementation of the specific recommendations and road map which was included in this programme. Since the government has taken over the baton in the implementation of this programme, our request for this information is related to the achievement of the short-term objectives contained in this programme, because we can talk about them specifically at the moment, already on numbers. In addition to the short term, there are also medium-term and long-term objectives. These short-term measures also concern regulatory activities, which will also be asked by Members of Parliament and the Government has committed itself to regulate strictly fuel and boilers, in short, through regulations. There is a whole range of funding for projects, as well as the issue of coordination and educational activities also in the field of health education. The implementation of the short-term objectives, which have been outlined by 2018, and we are already in 2017, as it currently looks like, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In financial terms, too? I would like to ask how these financial plans have been decreed in the current financial plans and budgets prepared by the various departments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u91	Thank you very much. Before we hear the answer, I wanted to say hello to the young people present at the gallery from the diocese of Łomża, from the Caritas resort. [[From Stefanek.]] I ask for an answer from the Minister of Environment, Mr Jan Szyszko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u92	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First, I wanted to thank the applicants sincerely for putting this problem up. It is extremely important and extremely bearable in the social media lately. I completely agree with the Member and thank you for this introduction. Yes, there is a national air protection programme established on 9 March 2015. This program is, of course, modified. There is also a steering committee appointed by the Prime Minister on 21 October 2016 by the Prime Minister on the conduct of these activities. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, I can say thank you that the situation is, in fact, worrying from the point of view of air quality, from the point of view of European standards, and society has a right to be interested in this. The environmental inspection carried out audits for 2015 in accordance with its tasks, as regards 2016, is now a summary. This check showed that 46 zones in Poland in 39 exceeded PM10 suspended dust standards, 23 PM2.5, and for the next element of the atmosphere that we monitor - benzopyren - up to 44. So, indeed, the situation can be disturbing. At this point, we need to be clear about what this pollination depends on. So it has an impact on this, and there is no doubt about it, a matter of fuel quality, and these fuels are a matter of their quality. Of course, emissions depend on what we smoke, and this is also related to the wealth of society. At a time when society, when there are few, I would say, wealthy, burns what is possible, so it buys what is cheapest. There are quite large discrepancies between, for example. good Polish coal and coal imported from Ukraine. The pollination, of course, is increasing, but the price is also different. It also affects local pollination. There is no doubt that humans can also smoke waste, which also causes an increase in pollination. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that what is happening and what is being felt also depends on meteorological conditions. The smoke from the chimney looks different when it's hot winter, and it's been described many times, this smoke goes vertically up. Differently, when the weather changes, it comes to changing these harsh winters to more humid, heavy air. Especially this humid air with a large drop in temperature causes this smoke to lie on the surface of the earth. It also depends on how the agglomeration is located, the city. If it's in the nuisance, it's very large. If it is located above, on the high ground, where the air is blowing, the matter is quite different. Yet another matter is when the city is built properly. Why am I talking about this? Because this local pollination depends on the specific characteristics of individual cities. Indeed, on the one hand, this strategy is moving towards the state, as you said, towards ensuring the security of society, on the other hand towards self-government, so that the local government can act this way in order to create such conditions as to actually make this pollination as small as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the whole matter at all, I would like to return to certain roots. This is related to my political activity, namely the directive you are talking about here, as regards PM2,5, which was created in 2008. But it started... [[Telephone sound]] I'm so sorry. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Can you turn that phone off?]] ...to be implemented in 2007 and then there was a discussion in the Council of Europe. At the time we were building a coalition, saying that this directive is extremely dangerous also for the Polish industry, and this is because pollination looks different in different places in Europe. [[Minister of the Environment illustrates his speech with slides]] You can look at the map you have here. This is the pollination of the average annual - this is how it is measured - for PM2.5 dusts on a European scale. If you'd seen this... Countries such as Spain, Portugal, coastal countries, the Atlantic Ocean, as well as Scandinavian countries have had average annual pollination almost eight times less than what is in the region where Poland is, where Germany is, where it is also, notice the country, Ukraine. So theoretically, if we were to consider only this, we could say, well, the difference in the culture of use or combustion. And where do these dusts come from? Yes, these dusts come from the fact that someone is burning something, but also from the industry. These dusts also come from low emissions when it comes to cars. It is difficult to say that in these countries there has been many times less consumption in the ocean, or that there has been a greater culture of cohabitation with the environment, that they have been less emitted. I think it's pretty clear what's on the ocean: the winds of the western winds are blowing rather clean air from the ocean, and if there's winds the other way, it's blown out into the ocean, it's coming back. These weather conditions play a major role. So what I'm saying is that this is also something that needs to be looked at from this point of view. When we discussed whether to introduce this directive and such strict standards, we said that Poland is a little at a disadvantage. Why? Because dust is not only what comes from anthropogenic energy sources or from the use of natural resources. This is also due to pollination, which is related e.g. with the use of soil. In Sahara, where there is no man, pollination is many times greater than in Europe because there are sharp winds and this dust also rises. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: What do we care about Sahara?]] It is this dust, of the same size, that is actually flew to other places, to Europe, also to Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking about it because it's something you have to pay attention to. We've adopted certain standards, and I think these standards need to be adopted, since we've adopted them... And there was a strong discussion, including, among other things. with Mr Sigmar Gabriel, the Minister of the Environment, and we even had a coalition to prevent this draft directive from being passed, with these strict standards. But the fact is that at the moment, in the 27 countries of the world, Europe, I apologize very much, 23 countries in the European Union are out of line. It shall be conducted by the European Commission in accordance with Article. 13 of the Directive, checking procedures. Among these countries, 16 have already started procedures before the European Court of Justice, including Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, as far as actions are concerned, these actions - as you have said - on the one hand they belong to you, and these are systemic, legal, technical, financial, organisational or social tasks, but there are also tasks that belong to local governments. Each country, as I said, has its own specific characteristics in this area. I think we will also be discussing this here. Ladies and gentlemen! The strategy for responsible development, which the Council of Ministers will adopt, I hope, during this week, is ready. There, the matter of what is yours, as well as what belongs to the local government, is very much highlighted. I can tell you that we're working with the Minister of Energy right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] we are preparing a regulation on standardising the quality of solid fuels; we are also preparing standards for domestic boilers with the Minister of Development. So many introductions. You're welcome to ask questions. I would be happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that 48 ladies and gentlemen have joined the floor. That means that about 20 won't be able to speak, because it won't fit in time unless we reduce the time limit to 1 minute. [[Voices from the hall: Yes! Yes!]] [[Voice from the room: Rules...]] But then everyone won't be on the list. [[What do you mean everyone can't fit in?]] I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, when we look at a map of pollution in Europe, we can see clearly that in Poland there is the most pollution. I was looking at my voivodship, Kujawsko-Pomorskie. In my voivodship there are also cities where pollution is the most. Such a city is e.g. Grudz. I am surprised to see that this city, beautiful and historic, is in danger. I wanted to ask you about the marshal's office. Are the Marshal's offices working on this, or do they have any resources? What is the cooperation between the government and the Marshal's offices on pollution prevention? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u95	Thank you. High Izbo! This is where the dilemma has not been resolved, the problem you have posed to Marshal Terlecki. [[But the rules say, Marshal, two minutes.]] Okay, but, sir, that's a question, that's for the decision of the High House. If... [[Voice from the hall: Krakow Market: 1.5 minutes, Marshal.]] Mrs... If we stick to the rules of procedure, then we will have to cut off about 20 members of parliament with a question. This is the decision of the High House. We're sticking to regular time - two minutes, right? [[One minute!]] Okay, okay, two minutes, then. After we've run out of time... [[One and a half minutes of Krakow's trade fair.]] ...foreseen by the rules of procedure for the consideration of this point of the person enrolled in the vote, who will not fit in at that time, will not be able to take... [[Room voice: One minute, please.]] ...a voice. It's okay. [[One minute, please.]] ...then we'll stay at two minutes. Here you go, another... [[We want a minute.]] [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes, Marshal.]] [[One and a half minutes, Mr. Marshal, from the beginning.]] Is it okay for a minute? Okay, if it's okay for a minute... [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: There are rules or there is no rules.]] Mr President, and that is the voice of reason - one and a half minutes. [[I'm offering you a minute and a half from the beginning. You're the only one who won't listen.]] What's fit, it's gonna be. Thank you very much to the House. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo!....
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u97	The Member will fit in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u98	Yesterday, at the meeting of the parliamentary team on mining and energy, we heard from one of the experts that we are buying a nuclear bomb in Poland every 2 years. Well, it's 50,000. people lose their lives because of smog, because of this pollution, and we allow it. The question is, what is in this direction? We will. Recently, a few weeks ago... [[What did you do?]] ...there has been a report in which 50 of the most polluted cities in the European Union are reported. Most of these cities belong to the Silesian Voivodeship. In the first place is Żywiec, on the second Pszczyna, the fourth place is Rybnik, the fifth Wodzisław Śląski, we still have such cities as Gods, Knurów, Zabrze, Katowice, Gliwice, Bielsko-Biała, Żory and Sosnowiec. Surely this is not a noble list to be praised. I tabled an amendment to the draft budget to allocate PLN 600 million to the disposal of smog, to the disposal of this dust. What did it turn out to be? In the column room, somebody kind of turned it down, turned it down and said that it didn't take that money to solve this problem. [[Why did you give $200 million?]] I wanted to ask the Minister what specific measures, which specific programmes were prepared by the Minister for Silesia. There is the greatest threat, there, in Silesia, inhabitants live less and less, women about 4 years old, men [[♪ The bell ♪]] approx. 7. I'd like to know what the money's gonna be, what programs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u99	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u100	...the rule of law and justice will be implemented. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u101	Please take the floor of Mrs. Cornelia Wróblewska. High Izbo, since we've agreed that we're sticking together this time, I will absolutely ask you to fit in this one and a half minutes. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u102	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask you a few questions on key issues, but not precisely included in the recommendations of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. What appropriations are intended to be used to replace existing boilers and furnaces that do not meet any emission standards within the next 3 years, which is the end of the term of office? It is worth reminding that at present there are at least 3 million old boilers in Poland, and the replacement of one for a new generation boiler is cost approx. Six, eight thousand. zł. That means that on a national scale, it's tens of billions of costs. We want to know how they're going to be spread out. What legal tools does the government plan to equip local authorities with to help reduce car pollution? Is it planned to free parking rates, allow access fees to the city centre or temporary bans on cars entering the centre during smog episodes? What additional measures does the government intend to take to make it easier for local governments and relevant services to fight illegal garbage smoking, which is common practice and at the same time generates huge amounts of pollution? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u103	Thank you, Member. And Mr John Boat, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is good, it is very good even that the government has changed - and it seems that in a diametric way - the approach to the phenomenon of smog: from the disregarding attitude of Minister of Health Radziwiłł, that it is a theoretical problem, to a trial, as we have heard, to building a certain concept of countering this phenomenon. And here I am thinking, and at the same time, I propose that instead of putting on another act against local governments and organisations associated with local governments, we start working with them. The institution that you deprived of the state yesterday, you can say, the quality of the local government, I think about the regional environmental and water funds, has been implementing the programme for years and offers proposals for reducing air pollution. The Ekodom programme is being implemented in Lublin, it is highly appreciated and it would be good for it to continue. Nothing, just use these patterns. Another example, from a few days ago, is an example of a pioneering anti-smog resolution adopted by the councillors of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. The regulations contained there should simply be transferred to the level of the law, I think, and implemented. High Izbo! As the president of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz said, fighting smog is a Polish state right. It should therefore be [[♪ The bell ♪]] all efforts to do so to fight this smog. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u105	Thank you, sir. We agree, that's our point of view. And you fit in in a minute and a half. [[I cut everything, it's my speech.]] I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let me also remind you that yesterday we had a meeting of the Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team, which I have the honour of being president. The Secretary of State, Paweł Sałek, was present. A very interesting discussion, also devoted thematically to the fight against smog. Smog did not appear during this year or during the last year, it is an increasing phenomenon. In my speech, I would like to draw attention to sectoral Poland, because the issue of environmental protection in the context of the fight against smog, the Ministry of the Environment, is looking at the environment, but I think, my dear Minister, that we should approach the subject more widely. Minister Sałek mentioned yesterday at the team meeting other issues, such as spatial planning, spatial planning, urbanisation phenomena - there should be some guidelines in the municipalities, in the cities, so that the airflow is not blocked. More broadly, it is also about using an economical single zloty that should translate into innovation in the economy, so that the whole economy as if it worked in the context of environmental protection. So it's not just that we're measuring the air protection indicators, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But they also started innovation, for example through the production of modern...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u107	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u108	...technology solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u109	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Galla. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also come from the Silesian region, where this pollination, this smog is a very serious problem. It's not that it's a subject that's come up lately, he's been teasing cyclically, but in every winter season, he's letting himself in. We know that today the actions of local governments are insufficient, that there must be regulation, but also certain economic conditions. And that's what I'd like to ask. Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister what legal provisions you want to bring to the Sejm in the near future, which could regulate these issues. Do you and when do you provide for the introduction of standards for solid fuels that are used for sunbathing and standards for heating furnaces? These are two very serious elements that decide what our smog problem is. And, of course, this economic problem. Do you also provide for certain price regulation, e.g. at gas and fuel oil prices, for example, a reduction in excise duty? We know that this is a serious problem especially with fuel oil. As members of the Committee on Public Finance, we have had this problem for many years. Lowering these prices, I think, would result in, however, that here individual customers would use these green fuels. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u111	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The smog problem has been present for a long time, but it has been particularly alive in recent weeks. Members of the Civic Platform are on the table. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] to the report of the Minister of Environment, while President Włocławka, your party colleague from the Civic Platform, allows the city unit to smoke tires, leaves, plastic in the middle of the forest. [[Something like that, what a scandal!]] This is documented by local television and local media reports about it. [[Scandal.]] I have a question. Or maybe the Civic Platform gave some instructions to its presidents, e.g. Włocławka, Bydgoszcz, Warsaw? Is this a smog action in the release of the Civic Platform? Put your party colleague, President Włocławek, on the report. [[Something like that.]] Minister, I have a question and a request. Would you be able to alert the regional environmental inspectors to react to media information of this type - perhaps such situations also happen in other places - so that inspectors not only react, but above all also draw consequences, as I would like it to be done in the case of Włocławek? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u113	Thank you. Mrs Monika Wielichowska at the moment. She's not here. Then it is Mr Marek Owa. [[Can I have it in return?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that I am pleased with this information from Minister Szyszka, because it seems that smog has ceased to be a theoretical problem, and perhaps this is some prediction of real changes in government policy in this area, because I will remind you that in the last year the government has rather focused on halting funding and funding programmes to combat smog. This is also the case, I have to tell you, because EVERYDAY, today we can say, inform and usually have such information: In areas where there is high concentrations of particulate matter, young children, the elderly, pregnant women and people with heart and respiratory diseases and asthmatics should avoid being in the open air. These are usually messages that are now published by GIOŚ. Ladies and gentlemen! This problem cannot be solved without significant financial resources being involved. And there's nothing to be fooled by, clean fuels are more expensive fuels. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: What is the government going to do to enable households in material difficulties to use clean fuels? What means does he intend to use for this fight to be a real fight? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u115	Thank you. And Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! According to estimates, 48,000. Poles die of smog. It's a small county. Polish People's Party prepared such a program, a nationwide program, a national antismog program, where we propose a number of solutions. [[You were eight years old.]] It is a good thing that there is broad agreement here that there is a need for a strong response, but this must be a firm support for all these solutions. What, among other things, Shall we? Not enough time to expand. Exchange of coal kilns, but with maximum funding. There really must be a lot of resources here, up to 75%. prices. Later, after installing a new furnace, for 2 years support, co-incinerating funding... I'm sorry, that's what I'm gonna come to... burning in the furnaces, because the new carrier, too, is gonna be more expensive. Better, but more expensive. Electricity surcharges, electricity surcharges. There are already opportunities for differentiation of tariffs. There are times when there's too much electricity. Giving people, even giving people power for free, let them benefit, it will affect the cleanliness of the air. In turn green energy, renewable energy, what the government unfortunately is fighting right now. Windmills - investments were stopped at all, co-incinerated, what we used to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They've already blocked it. So there's a need for decisive action...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u117	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u118	...take it, not fake it, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u119	Thank you. Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition here beats the alarm and turns the atmosphere up, as if it had not heard in the committees, but in the environmental committee representatives of the national fund and the minister informed that about PLN 1 billion the national fund will provide for improvement of air quality, 300 million grants, 700 million loans for energy use of geothermal resources. And here is the question of why energy consumption in construction could not have been reduced before, to support projects in the field of low-carbon and resource-efficient economy. May I? Yes, you can. So here's an additional question: Why didn't such a good technical and economical project as Toruń's geothermals receive support despite the procedure? Despite your pledge of funds, you've decided to go to trial, and you've finally had a court settlement... Your national fund board was saving up the reserve because he knew the money was gonna have to be paid. So why are you putting the Polish state at risk of losing public funds? We talk here all the time about Silesia and Małopolska, about the affected area, but what are the reasons, Minister, for bad air condition, catastrophic air condition in the capital city of Warsaw? And why over the past few years it has not been possible to limit in any way the influx of coal of poor quality, low quality, which causes this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what is happening in the Polish atmosphere at the moment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u121	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u122	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In his speech, the Minister raised the issue of fuel quality and I would also like to refer to this problem, namely brown coal, which is burned in households. In one response to my interpellation, I received from the Minister of Energy an answer that fuel based on brown coal they are not covered by the Law on the monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and regulations which concern the limitation of the use of mules, coal mats and fleet concentrates in the municipal and residential segment. Well, I would like to point out, Minister, that brown coal has a lower calorific value and much more humidity than hard coal, which makes it much worse than hard coal. The mineral substance, which is contained in brown coal, is very fine with physicochemical properties which translate into higher emissions of dust during combustion compared to hard coal and comparing the emission potential of brown and hard coal, the former is characterized by approximately five times higher emissions of dust during combustion and about seven times higher emissions of aromatic hydrocarbons, and approximately three times higher emissions of benzopyrenes. My question is to the Minister: Does the Government of Law and Justice plan, however, to include lignite in these regulations and to limit its burning in households so that it is an environment [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wasn't it contaminated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u123	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I am from Silesia and people report to my office in Gliwice almost every day when they are concerned about the situation of smog and ask for help. Therefore, I have a question that I would very much like to get an answer to. Are you considering setting up an interministerial team consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, perhaps also the Ministry of Development, which will prepare a comprehensive program to fight smog? Do government representatives intend to visit cities and regions that are particularly affected by this problem so that they do not judge these problems solely from the perspective of Warsaw? Does the government have a plan of coordinated action that could take advantage of local authorities' knowledge and experience in this area and thus support local authorities in the fight against smog? I also have a question as to whether, as part of the revision of the Ministry of Health, the Prime Minister took note of the position of the Minister of Health on smog and whether this problem remains a theoretical problem. And first of all, I'd like to know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which measures The government plans to use comprehensive solutions to improve air cleanliness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u125	Thank you, Member. And Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u126	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It is good that in this regard, air pollution, creating the conditions in which we live and in which our children will live, we agree. Minister, I am addressing you: all these issues, even after the adoption of the development strategy - there will be some indications, directions of action - it will be difficult to implement at the government level from Warsaw. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And I'm pretty sure that by rejecting all the issues of pushing topics or assigning things to each other, done or not done, or the ones we wanted to do, which we haven't done yet... You're an experienced politician with good judgment in self-government and government work. An agreement must be created to tackle these difficult situations and I am convinced that we can already take advantage of the solutions we have in local governments, for example. We know that in the Lesser Poland Voivodship these solutions are applied. As the Minister intends - if you could say and outline the scheme - to establish this cooperation with local governments and with the government administration for the preparation of good practice [[♪ The bell ♪]] are also active in small municipalities and towns? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u127	Thank you, sir. And Mr Michael Wojtkiewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As you yourself said, air pollution depends mainly on what we smoke, what we burn. Does the government, or does the Minister provide for the certification of materials allowed for individual sale? In coal landfills, the fuel is very often seen as the worst sort of materials that people buy. I live in a small town, in a boiler room where several times these standards are exceeded. A very glorious thing is that already this year the kilns have been replaced and 340 kilns will be mentioned in such a small town. But there's another thing. There's even a committee that walks and looks at the chimney that smokes all the time. Will this also be legally sanctioned? Because very big, maybe not so big, but there are a group of people on whom you simply cannot impose any mandate or who absolutely do not react about what is burning in their kilns. The history of smog is probably as long as the history, the legend of the Wawel Dragon. If the previous government had also reacted as decisively as today's Minister, I think that these matters would have been further addressed, we would have had much cleaner air. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You are absolutely right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u129	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Płock on the map of Polish cities is at the forefront of the most polluted cities in Poland. During the night from 21 to 22 September 2016, the measuring stations in Płock recorded a significant exceedance of benzene standards, which in Płock caused anxiety of residents and the march of residents against air pollution, which of course was alleged to be PKN Orlen. Płock is located in the top cities of Poland in the statistics of deaths due to lung and bronchial cancers, as well as other cancers. Data from 1999 and 2012 shows that in Płock there are between 19% and 70% cancer cases more than in other cities in Mazowsze and an average of 32% more than in Poland. Dynamics of lung and bronchial tumours. Studies conducted from 1999 to 2005 and from 2006 to 2012 show that in the latter period - 2006 and 2012 - the incidence of lung and bronchial cancer increased by 43.4%. while in Mazowsze in the same period fell e.g. in Ostrołęka by 9%, in those cities where it grew, it increased by a maximum of 9% and in Poland by an average of 7.9%. The inhabitants demand to improve air quality, reduce emissions from the Płock industry, as well as the creation of a cancer complex oncology unit. Minister: What is it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] will you take action to solve this problem that is dangerous for the inhabitants of Płock? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u131	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I very much welcome and commend the information that the government intends to eliminate from the sale boilers that do not comply with the standards for emissions of dust and other harmful compounds, as well as mining waste, such as mule, had or had fleets. This is because today, as we know, municipalities have been spending huge subsidies for, among others, for several years. the replacement of boilers for low-carbon and, at the same time, endless supply on the market of boilers which do not meet any emission standards in which they can actually smoke to all, undermines the main purpose of this grant. In my view, the prospect and the announcement of a significant contribution to such an exchange should also be recognised, which will encourage, adapt to regulations for the less affluent. I would like to ask the Minister: Is the government considering developing programmes for renewable energy resources such as geothermal energy, and does it even seem profitable at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u133	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. There's no envoy. Mrs Bernadette Krynick. You're welcome. There isn't any either. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! There wouldn't be this debate if it wasn't for smog and clean air to affect health. Smog alert is a threat to life and health. That is why I ask: Where is the Minister of Health in this whole debate? Could the Minister answer such a simple question, why has the Minister of Health been silent for a few weeks? When an alert is announced, the Minister of Health should inform and warn the public about the risk factor of air pollution. But the Minister of Health says this is a theoretical problem. I ask: Is the theoretical problem 48,000? Deaths a year? I have a question: Is 70% all the deaths caused by pollution are premature deaths due to strokes and heart attacks? The cost of this is $100 million. per year. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts that we are all facing and which we should work out together. This task was imposed on Prime Minister Morawiecki, because the Prime Minister is preparing the whole strategy. I therefore understand that the powers of the Minister of Health have also been taken over by the Prime Minister. The Minister spoke here about a strategy that had been prepared. I would like to ask: Is there a solution in the government's strategy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] on health, awareness and education?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u135	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u136	What preventive measures will be taken? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u137	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The problem of air pollution is nothing new. Many times this statement was here and has to be agreed with. Information about the bad air condition in Poland, about the smog threat has been appearing cyclically for many years. So I have a question: How has air pollution changed in the last 30 years? And another question. One way to combat air pollution is to promote and promote renewable energy sources. Will there therefore be more funding for programmes to finance the exchange by individuals of central heating furnaces for heat pumps and photovoltaic cells? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u139	Thank you. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Marshal of Silesia and the Seymist took urgent decisions to prohibit heating with mule, fleet and brown coal from the nearest heating season. This was a reaction to the terrible air quality in Silesia, which was mentioned here by a colleague of Mr Gadowski. In my town of Bielsko-Biała, since the 1990s, it has been paying for the replacement of boilers and in 11 years it has been replaced by 1820, but another 6.5 thousand. there's still a change to be made. Many collectors, 830 solar collectors, were also installed. Next year, it's about to start a program to replace tile furnaces in tenement houses, old tenement houses. In order to improve the air quality in the city, there is really a lot going on in all local governments, but it is not enough. All these actions will not work if the government has announced a list, but there are no details. That's why I have a question for the Minister. How do you intend to implement all the above mentioned activities that you listed on this list? I ask for specifics and precise definitions, because it is extremely urgent, since, what changes, under which conditions you will make, how much you will pay the poorest to replace heating devices, and how you intend to educate and convince citizens to change their habits. I think there's no money and no habit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is the greatest difficulty in improving air quality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u141	Thank you, Member. And I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Mastowska. She's absent, isn't she? This is Mr Marek Grumpy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I invite you to Rybnik, there two weeks ago pollution standards exceeded over 3000%. Of course, as you said, local governments have certain instruments and tools that they use, but local governments expect system solutions. For the time being, the government has taken the first step, announcing the implementation of e.g. Regulation of the European Commission on the quality of boilers and the need to replace them. In addition, seymikas, e.g. The Sejmik of the Silesian Voivodship prepares such a draft resolution. But the most important thing, Minister, is what we smoke, which is in one word: the introduction of quality standards for sold fuel, and here, in my opinion, there can be no room for compromise. That is why I wanted to ask you whether a ban on the sale of mules and fleets will be introduced by law, obviously spread over time, because I assume that individual farms still have such mules or fleets somewhere in their stocks. On the basis of what criteria will these standards be established? Because it's said that. The mule will be banned, but the fleets will not. In my opinion, Minister, the main criterion cannot be the profit of mines, but the fact that more than 45 000 die a year. people because of smog. I would also like to ask if there will be eco-tariffs like Slovakia, where the excise duty on household gas has been reduced. Those who use organic fuels receive subsidies. I'd have more questions, but I wanted to fit in in time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u143	Thank you, sir. And I ask that Mrs Barbara Dziuk speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The topic of smog and low emissions comes back every year like boomerang. Organized conferences, meetings, exchanges of views at the levels of urban and voivodship authorities have absorbed financial resources, but have not improved air condition. The problem is getting worse. That's how WFE has been working so far. Silesia is suffocated and big cities in Poland are also suffocating. Previous government power didn't notice that. One thing we know is that very much money has been spent on this. Local authorities have consistently allowed for greening in cities and cutting out trees that are natural, green land lungs that cleanse from pollution. I'm not gonna ask what the PO did. We all know it didn't do anything about it and other problems. Effect - alarming data on serious respiratory diseases and related complications leading to premature death, which are directly related to the inhalation of pollutants. Winter continues, smog-related alarms continue to threaten us. My question to the Minister: What does the current government have in mind on improving air quality? And second question: Do we know how many funds have been spent for this purpose so far? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The predecessors said, and we can see the effects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u145	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We have a map of Poland on which we have marked the level of pollution, but this map of Poland is created so approximately, because not in every village, and in large cities there are installations monitoring the level of dust in every district. Ba, they are often not in spa towns either. Does the government intend to carry out the task of installing the monitoring station system throughout Poland and how much will it cost? That's the first question. Two. It often happens that in boilers, in these cinderellas, the wrong fuel burns, the garbage. Who will check the quality of the exhaust gas and what method? In Germany it is done by firemen, in Poland it is said that maybe city guards, but neither tools nor ways. Is it going to be resolved systemically? Finally, we have a programme for the exchange of boilers for class V boilers, class IV, and there was also such information that electrofilters could be used for these cinders - yesterday at the committee meeting, the team was interesting about this - which cost only 2 000. zł. Will the government see if that's really possible? And lastly, you have, dear PiS government, PiS television, you have the resources to raise awareness to the public through information and advertising programmes. We used to do a program that we remember so far, environmental sin. It was broadcast in all stations. They say it's a sin to sunbathe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm so... Aren't you going back to that kind of information and publicity?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u147	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u148	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In recent years, we have seen an increasing problem with air pollution in both large and small cities and even small towns. In fact, it is difficult to find a pollution-free town, even a spa town. For this reason, I have a question for the Minister: Does the government work with local governments to take action to improve air quality? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u149	Thank you. Marek Rząsa, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u150	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One minister spoke about threats a little more theoretical, the other, from the resort of environmental nomen omen, does not see the need to raise the threshold when alerting the Polish society about threats with smog. I'm not surprised if it's the defense you're using. The minister offers us, there are tree cuttings and degradation of the renewable energy system through an effective fight against windmills. But I think it's time to see problems affecting millions of Poles every day. A few questions, then. When will coal quality standards be introduced and the coal market control system implemented? Will financial programmes support the exchange of household heating equipment be implemented and when? And last but not least, Minister, I think it's good for the rulers. Initiate educational programmes to raise awareness of the problem of pollution and its effects to Poles. It would be good to involve children and young people in these programmes. And it's not because this age group can suffer the most, but because children and young people are the best ambassadors for such projects. As a longtime teacher, I know that their influence on parents and grandparents sometimes brings far greater benefits than the best legal solutions. A good example of this is the segregation of garbage, where children and young people are the best family animators of ecological behavior. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u151	Thank you. Mr Jan Warzecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! A few questions. Is it planned to expand the state air quality monitoring system to include automatic stations? People often ask about current data, and such automatic stations are not much. The most harmful are impurities in PM2,5, PM10 and derivatives, and these come mainly from poor quality fuels and heating systems in homes. It welcomes the fact that debates such as today's, such as TV talks, media debates make public awareness grow in this regard. An important problem is the burning of garbage in domestic furnaces, including plastics and others, which contain many harmful substances. How can the current surveillance be strengthened so that people are aware of the risks and know that they will be effectively punished if they smoke garbage? There is a significant impact on the congestion, the lag of smog also has an incorrect architecture in a given city, resulting in a lack of corridors of ventilation of the city. Is there any action in this regard to effectively protect such corridors in cities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u153	Thank you, sir. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, almost every day in the Silesian Voivodeship, the permissible average concentrations of particulate matter in the air are exceeded. The disgraceful recordmakers are Rybnik and Żywiec, where I live. The actions taken by local authorities to combat this phenomenon are insufficient due to the lack of funding. Data given to Lives a few days ago indicated that standards were exceeded by more than 1000% When it comes to sulphur dioxide and suspended dust. First of all, I wanted to ask you about the situation of poorer people who cannot afford to buy greener heating furnaces and more expensive fuel. Will there be any government help for them? Will the government spend more money on financing the thermomodernisation of public and private facilities? And will the principles of reaching for these measures be simplified, because some have difficulty? Will the criteria be set so that the most appropriate beneficiaries who do not have their own funds for the replacement of boilers, windows and buildings are eligible for funding? And will there be a better information campaign about the possibility of obtaining funding for this purpose, because this is extremely important? And one more very important issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the government develop solutions that will facilitate the development of gas networks, especially in rural areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u155	Thank you, Member. [[Where's the applause?]] [[Applause]] Mr Jarosław Nobletka. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Poland has had the most polluted air in the European Union for years. The fact that in many Polish cities the concentration of toxic and carcinogenic substances, PM10 dust and benzo (a) pyrene, many times exceeds the permitted standards, has already been alerted by various institutions in 2000. In Małopolska, this problem was particularly publicised in the autumn of 2003, when Kraków took the 3rd disgusting place in the ranking of cities with the most polluted air in Europe. Reports of the Supreme Chamber of Air Protection in Poland, among others. the 2014 ones do not leave any illusions that state institutions in a controlled period, i.e. In 2008 and 2014, such as the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of Economy during the reign of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, they did not carry out appropriate and effective actions that would improve air quality in our country, setting up e.g. emission standards for new low power coal boilers primarily used in households and setting minimum quality requirements for solid fuels. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the question whether and what financial programmes are available today regarding measures to improve air quality in our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u157	Mrs Aldona Młyńczak. She's not here. This is Mrs Anna Krupka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PO and PSL MEPs are empathizing us with repeated excesses of pollution standards, but this situation has not arisen today. What has your government done for eight years to counter this? At the beginning of January, four municipalities of my constituency, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, recorded the highest concentration of air pollution in Poland, several times higher than the acceptable level: in Kielce, Połańc, Małogoszcz and Nowiny. In order to counteract this, a proper diagnosis of the problem is essential. What is the cause of the high concentration of air pollution in Świętokrzyskie voivodship, and what action is the Minister planning to improve the situation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u159	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In this discussion, I wanted to raise the problem of spa communities. Spa municipalities are currently at the stage of preparation of spa operations in order to obtain new spa statuses by the end of 2018. This is crucial for continuing the spa activity in these municipalities, while there are serious problems to prepare such operations. Firstly, there is no agreement between the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Health regarding the procedure for measuring the quality of environmental components for environmental operations. Who and where are these measurements to be carried out? Because at present, for example. for the spa The measuring station is in Szczecin and it is known that it will not be reliable. I would very much ask the Minister to finally agree on cooperation between ministers so that the municipalities can carry out these operations on time. The second point I want to raise is the question of helping the spa communities to eliminate low emissions. They can't do the same, they're small towns, and I would very much like to ask the Minister for a special programme for these municipalities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u161	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Kaminska. There isn't. This is Mr Edward Siarka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! With this problem we have in Poland with smog at the moment, educational matters are a very important issue. I also keep up-to-date with boiler manufacturers who regret that TV news shows often show a dark picture of this situation when, let's say, the host simply shovels coal into the oven. Wouldn't it be possible to make a national environmental fund or a voivodship educational program fund, which would show people in the world how to smoke economically in kilns - because it is often the impression that people even this simple one, it seems, activities do not do well enough to make it energy-efficient - and, above all, may not accumulate pollution that often occurs as a result of the burning of shoes, rags, waste and even paper cartons, which, as it turns out, are covered with foils? Someday, for example. on the farm there was a mere paper burning, and today it turns out that it is lined with foil, and from it there are huge contaminations. It seems to me that such a programme in many areas would really help and reduce emissions, and we can do so by small means. If we can find that kind of money, I'd ask you to help me with that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u163	Mrs Elżbieta Duda. You're welcome. [[No, I'm early.]] Excuse me, Mr Antoni the Man. [[Thank you very much.]] How I could have missed Mr Antony here, I apologise, Mr President. [[It's hard to see, I'm not too tall.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, To answer the question about the cause of smog here, you said there were two reasons: one is the wealth of society, the other is the influence of the oceans. When it comes to the influence of the oceans, we have no influence on it, but when it comes to the wealth of society, the cost of energy, that is what we have. So far, all the energy strategies that have been created - the government - have also been affected - have been created from a big finger, for ideological, political and other reasons. On the other hand, the actual costs of energy sources have never been taken into account, and there is not even such a comparison. Together with a group of geothermal experts, I want to ask the Minister of Development and Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for such a comparative analysis, to create a team that would develop a comparison of different types of energy - all costs, including environmental, medical, medical costs, etc., so that society at least is aware, but also the government is aware of the actual costs. Because there is such a development of an energy expert Maciej Bukowski, who states that when all the costs of coal are calculated, it is more expensive than renewable energy sources. These are serious solutions. It is about long-term contracts or now a transitional fee, about what went into investment, and about what the state once built. Looks like that energy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is more expensive, also in terms of economic issues, because there are subsidies for mining. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u165	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Duda this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u166	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Before the question is asked, I would like to refer to a specific example of Małopolska. According to the Marshal's office in Krakow as much as 98% inhabitants of the voivodship breathe air with a dangerous concentration of dust. There, dust concentrations almost never fall to limit values. In the Podkraków town of Skale, my home town, which has recently gained international recognition due to the infamous record of exceeding the air pollution standards with PM10, there are overshoots similar to those in Beijing. Smog's been a problem for years. There is particular hope in the government's discussions on the introduction of a new night tariff for electricity, so that the price of heating apartments becomes a viable alternative to the cost of coal burning. In addition to the introduction of the new tariff, is the Ministry considering offering subsidies for the purchase of a storage furnace in exchange for the decommissioning of the boiler? Is the introduction of a new tariff considered, even in areas affected by the highest concentration of suspended dust? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u167	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u168	Mr. Marshal! Listening to the debate, I hear strong political accents here, accusations about the past, and it is important to be clear: everyone has something to blame since 1989. In this case, little or little has been done so that citizens who are not interested in political accusations and pointing out guilt can finally gain access to clean and good air quality, because there is consensus and nobody will just accuse anyone today. We know that we have the right to clean, good quality water and we're not discussing whether we can sell worse or better water, are we? We want clean water, and it's in our consciousness. Similarly, we have the right to clean and good air quality. If we move here, it can be said that in Małopolska Law and Justice was against during the vote on the first resolution on air quality in Małopolska. In this Seym you also voted against, only one Member was in favour of supporting the relevant law. I've been running an antismog team for a year. I am pleased that many Members of the Law and Justice Group are speaking today in this debate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I invite you to participate in this team, where we discuss with ministries, what regulations to introduce...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u169	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u170	...what legislation to run and how to finance the battle for clean air.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u171	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Smog is also increasingly concerned with villages and towns. Over the last nearly 10 years, with a high increase in 2008-2015, many large industrial farms, mainly poultry, have been built in rural areas or municipalities. They produce excessive amounts of hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide and ammonia. Hydrogen sulphide at high concentrations, above 300 mg/m, becomes undetectable as a result of olfactory palsy. It blocks the transport of oxygen through the blood, causing respiratory arrest and death within minutes. Investors, with the approval of local authorities and WDOŚ, avoided regulations limiting the number of animals in one farm in the area, among others. Warmia and Mazury. They built a number of buildings in the same village. or the commune. Minister, are you considering taking any action to eliminate a very, very dangerous, accumulated within the same village? do municipalities grow in large industrial farms, mainly pigs and poultry? And one more question, since I have time: Are you considering funding heat pump installation for individuals, especially in rural areas and small cities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u173	Thank you, sir. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz. Mr Skurkiewicz is not here. Mrs Ewa Szymańska. [[There isn't any either.]] This is Mrs Anna April. Isn't there one? [[Voice from the room: No.]] She was, but she's not. Well, then, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta. Absent. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk. There isn't. Mr Piotr Polak. [[Present.]] One disciplined. [[The club needs to be disciplined.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u174	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have heard here, in the plenary room, about many cities that have problems with contaminated air in Poland, with dirt. And this is actually a very serious problem, because several, probably 6, out of the 10 most polluted cities in Europe are Polish cities. Therefore, Minister, because this case did not come out of nowhere this year, it has not become a problem, but these are the consequences, the effect of many years of neglect on this issue, I would like to ask: How wide a stream has flowed to Poland in the past years of poor quality coal from the open mine, especially from the East? Because this is one of the causes of smog in Poland. And another question. We already know that the government of Beata Szydło has started a fight with smog and that concrete actions are already planned, and that our National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management is very much committed to it, but I have also found information that it is possible to obtain funds from the European Union. What actions is the government planning to take, and what measures is it thinking here, to support the Polish budget with European funds in the fight against smog? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u175	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask a general question: What methods and incentives does the government intend to apply in this situation in the fight against smog? I am aware that, due to the various causes of air pollution, multi-directional action must be taken. We have recently heard in this room information about a dramatic situation when it comes to air poisoning in Płock. From what I hear from my friends, also employed in Orlena, it's simply because of austerity reasons that the chimneys are too low... [[It's Jasinski.]] [[Yes? He doesn't remember how a calf he was. I think we need to remind you.]] ...which cause these substances that are harmful to get into the air at the level at which this air is inhaled by the inhabitants of Płock. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u177	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is with great regret that I must point out that the Ministry of Health unfortunately does not carry out any information and education activities aimed at residents in order to raise awareness of the scale of the problem of air pollution in Poland and its negative health effects. It is so strange that the treatment of diseases caused or aggravated by smog generates significant costs on the part of the health system. There is also much to be done about increasing the knowledge of doctors about the impact of air pollution on the health of residents. The Ministry of Health should therefore immediately prepare appropriate information programmes on the health effects of smog. I therefore have a question: Does the Ministry of Health intend to implement appropriate programmes in this regard? If so, since when? I understand that the smog problem is solved by various ministries, including the Ministry of Health. My second question. Most municipalities declare that they are carrying out educational activities on air pollution, which, of course, must be assessed positively. Unfortunately, however, these are irregular, and they are not to say ad hoc. A closer analysis of this issue shows that a large proportion of these activities are actions carried out by NGOs, which invite municipalities to cooperate rather than vice versa. One of the most popular programs is the program of the Ark Foundation.You love children - don't smoke garbage, paying attention to the harmfulness of burning waste in domestic furnaces and boilers. However, does the government intend to take action to create thoughtful and coherent programmes [[♪ The bell ♪]] education addressed both to students at all levels of teaching as well as to adults...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u179	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u180	...using various modern and most popular forms of communication? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u181	Thank you. And Mr Zbigniew Gryglas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I want to support my previous speaker, who spoke about information. Indeed, these are actions that we can take immediately and the costs of which may be relatively small, and Poles can thus protect themselves and, above all, their children from this very negative effect of contaminated air. Ladies and gentlemen, in our cities, in Warsaw and other cities of Poland, this pollution is mainly due to old furnaces, popularly called Cinderella, which burn solid fuels in the 19th century technology. Indeed, the two basic actions that the government should implement immediately are, firstly, the introduction of solid fuel quality standards - as I hear, the work on these standards is being carried out, but in my opinion it is too slow - and the second issue is the ban on selling these old furnaces. Minister! My concern is that if we introduce this ban with an annual or even a six-month perspective, the preventative compatriots will buy a lot of these old generation furnaces, so I think that this ban should be introduced immediately, of course, with financial support, so that especially the poorest can buy the new generation of ovens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u183	Thank you. Mr Michał Jaros.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u184	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! The smog problem is is not a problem that concerns some part of Poland, it concerns all Polish cities, I have heard earlier that not only these large agglomerations, but also these smaller towns. It's true. In Lower Silesia, smog is a problem of Wrocław, but also of New Rudy, Kłodzka and other towns. This problem is not to be solved only in these towns, nor is it to be solved at the level of the voivodship. The fight against smog, which Polish cities or even voivodships take up, should of course have support at government level. It must be complementary, it must be complementary, action at the level of the municipality, at the level of the local government, but also at the central level, at the national level. There are three elements that are needed to fight smog. Firstly, we need to allow for the sale, for the circulation of suitable quality coal or for the quality of solid fuels, but also for furnaces. That's the first line. The second issue is, of course, educational activity, but also support for many families. The programs "Coffee" or "Fish" are programs that have been stopped. Question: "Why?" And the question is, will they continue, perhaps under a different name? I encourage you to do so. Third action is strengthening [[♪ The bell ♪]] urban guards and their competences. That is what I ask and that is what I ask for for Lower Silesia, for Wrocław and for Poland as a whole, because fighting smog is a fight all of us for our good, for the quality of our lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u185	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask for information as to whether the legislative activity in local government units in the field of air quality protection is monitored by the government. Therefore, is it also consistent with the government line? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u187	As the last Mr Marek Hok, right? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u188	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the one hand, we are looking for opportunities to fight smog, on the other hand we are talking about the absence and abandonment of preventive measures by the Ministry of Health, and on the other hand we are sending through the National Health Fund hundreds of thousands of our patients, including children, to spa towns. We've got 46 of them. In most of them, these standards are very high. Therefore, the question is whether it is worth spending more than 600 million on the spa treatment of our sick children in these towns, in those spas where these standards are exceeded. Perhaps it would be worth moving these referrals to those regions where the clean air is and will be. These local authorities should be supported by budgetary means to improve their air conditions and to actually heal, cure, and not cause any worsening of ailments and diseases, especially in children, with regard to upper respiratory tracts, asthma and allergic diseases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u189	Thank you very much, sir. We were able to fit in time, all of you could speak. In that case, please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u190	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! I made this request for information with great care, on the one hand, given the importance of the problem, especially for public health, that is, all of us, and on the other hand with a view to creating a field for agreement and cooperation, we all breathe air, including our voters, regardless of who they vote for next elections. I think it's our duty, and it was our chance, too. Meanwhile, even against the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues could make the matter strictly possible from the air. politically, and not yet in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment, because the Ministry of the Environment in correspondence says that, although at an unsatisfactory pace, air quality has improved in recent years. It says that it will continue its activities and considers them to be the priority indicated in the National Air Protection Programme. I asked the questions and asked you to focus on specifics. Since the Ministry of the Environment, in cooperation with other interested resorts, wants to continue this national programme, I wanted us to hear what has been done in this programme since September 2015 and what are the plans, including the financial ones, for the nearest time, as if by pushing aside a little bit of the assessment of the recommendations that the Prime Minister presented. These recommendations are of a general nature, so broad that it would require a really few days' debate in the Sejm, with the participation of experts. What did we hear in return? We have heard, and I regret to say that this information about how the short-term objectives have been achieved, the legal framework, that is, the regulations you are all talking about, is not there. Ministry of Environment since January Ub. r., not even in his own name, because it is not the Minister of the Environment who is responsible for preparing these regulations, assures us that they will be here any moment. We hear these answers and these assurances still. I understand the complexity of matter. These fuel regulations were not precisely because they did not eliminate the coal from imports, which the Member was talking about, because it turned out that this imported coal unfortunately has better emission conditions than ours. Protecting our coal industry has created this regulation so long and with difficulties. I also understand the problems with boiler standards, because it involves a large security, including financial security, of families, so that they can afford not only these boilers, but also better low-carbon fuel for these boilers or for this gas. This isn't easy. I urge that we really agree on how to do this, and put aside... I understand that part of the pollination is obviously coming from the Sahara, but that people don't live there, and that these dusts, as the Minister knows perfectly well, are not the carrier of benzoalphapyrene, which is not only mechanical damage. The point is, we don't talk about windmills, continental or oceanic, so we don't say it's just the aeration corridors. In the village where I live, which just counts 2,000. inhabitants, although they have urban rights, but rural character, no one has thought about any corridors in their lives, and smog we have probably worse than in Rybnik, only that we do not measure it, but we can see with the naked eye, for known reasons, obvious. Once again, I call on us not to really focus on boxing and telling people that geothermals will get us clean air. Geothermia will do a lot of things for us, just like solar installations, but its impact on air quality is disproportionately low in relation to investment. That gets us other things, but not these. Father Rydzyk will not solve the problem of clean air or in Toruń, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or in Poland, let's not talk about it. 'Cause that 20 million you took from Małopolska, for consciousness, so you wouldn't smoke garbage...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u191	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u192	...is more important than thermal pools. [[Applause]] [[You have lost your chance at a summary.]] [[But it was a confession, Mrs Rydzyk's father.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u193	Thank you very much, Member, time is up. And please take the floor of Minister of Environment of Mr Jan Szyszka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u194	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Once again, I would like to thank you very much for bringing this up. This is, as it turns out, an extremely important topic. I've received over 40 questions. In fact, each question is extremely important, each question could be answered for a relatively long time, but I do not agree with Mr Sonika that nothing has been done in terms of air quality. I would like to say, and this is indeed very well monitored, that in terms of air quality, in terms of these large industrial installations, a kind of world record has been set, because we have reduced by one year, if I remember correctly, 2004 at a level of fifty-fifty percent, and at the moment at 80%. , i.e. in the case of these large installations, however, state success is high, and this is also seen in European agreements. But we still have other pollutants that also grow, and among others. That's what we're talking about. Here, too, it has been said pinchingly that I actually said that there is only wealth and influence of the oceans. I told you about it, I showed you the map because I wanted to show you how important these issues are also in the geographical context. Theoretically, people from these preocean countries, and I have said this, can increase emissions repeatedly and will not reach the standards that are set in the European Union, while in Poland the highest combustion techniques must be used to meet these standards. So the issue is extremely important, and it also has a huge economic impact. This is the first thing, maybe in general, because each of you will be given a full answer, a comprehensive answer from this department. [[That's what we're counting on.]] They will also be consulted with other resorts, because we work together because it is a matter of concept, I would say, sustainable development. Not only is the resort of the environment as if it were the cause of this, because the perpetrator is someone else, but the resort of the environment is the host resort, which is aimed at solving this problem. And now the general issue, ladies and gentlemen, namely safety, is mentioned, the ecological state. The environmental safety of this country is good for each air, good for each water and sustainability of existing species. And every minister of the environment will provide this to the state, provided that he has a professionally prepared team to shape it at state level through 1/3 of the country in the form of state forests, water management with this coupled, spatial planning and the creation of the right law, so that the local government can carry out its activities in accordance with the culture of co-existence with the environment, and this has been mentioned many times. Why did I say that? I told you because this case is extremely important economically. Here you have said, and the Member here said that you would like to know what has been done. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, as far as boilers are concerned, the regulation is being created for several years, which is an extremely important matter. And at the same time I can say that Poles produce good boilers, but in order to introduce these good boilers, you have to have the right amount of money. The fact that it's difficult to do this. See, this is an economic issue, which is conflicts among various producers or lobbyists. I would like to tell you that I was offered for free boilers with high combustion efficiency on one condition that we buy fuel for these boilers. These are really important economic matters. As far as education is concerned, that is why I showed you this map, but to look at it, because here too are very important economic matters. [[Minister of the Environment illustrates his speech with slides]] There are also important health issues here, and that is without doubt. According to the model that I do not show you here, but I also have this slide, as this is theoretically decomposes in terms of reducing the life expectancy of citizens in different parts of the European Union - of course this is correlated with these pollutants - the average, such a theoretical life expectancy in Europe because of air quality is less than 9 months, and in the model for our pollination - by 12 months, so this is the scale. And here this education is extremely important, even for this reason, so that sometimes it doesn't cause panic. Ladies and gentlemen, in one of the cities, I think in Rybnik, the President, because of the smog, because there was a specific atmospheric situation, fired the children from school. Therefore, the children played in the streets. Excuse me, this is not consistent with this kind of action. Some other big man started talking about wearing masks, and we don't have masks like that 'cause it's unprepared. What I'm saying is that education is extremely important. Now you're saying... So I've already told you about the boilers, a few years. On the other hand, with regard to fuel quality, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is also very complicated economically, because on the one hand, what my colleague from the Civic Platform said here - wealth and on the other hand - price. And that's what I was talking about at the beginning. The thing is, if someone has a pension of 800 zlotys and gets the opportunity to buy coal for 300 zlotys, he's gonna buy coal like this and he's not gonna look at his standards. You say, "Enter the standards." Of course it is necessary to introduce these standards, but we must also pay attention to this man, and I think that also for this reason my predecessors had trouble introducing it. Believe me, I'm sure you wanted to do this, but you couldn't do it because there are all kinds of economic conditions that are extremely important. You have to pay attention to that. The quality of fuel is also due to certain - I suppose and we are checking - contracts that have been concluded. There are also some pressure groups, but this is something that needs to be pointed out. This is also an extremely important economic problem. Ladies and gentlemen, now you're talking about... I mean, it's about boilers, it's like we started... I hope that by the middle of this year there will be a regulation at the latest, with the fact that this second regulation requires a revision of the law, so it is necessary, Madam, to prepare it really well, and economic considerations are also extremely important, and the wealth of the citizen must also be looked at, so it must be prepared for this. You were talking about surveillance. This monitoring, which is in Poland, is done according to European standards, so that we can compare ourselves. It is not so simple to set up a new monitoring station so that it starts studying, because such a monitoring station with everything costs about PLN 0.5 million. You can't even buy some portable camera, right, production, let's call it, growing countries, growing tiger zones, somebody buys it for 50 zlotys and we monitor it, and he'll walk around and check his neighbor's eviction. Because these fluctuations, if anyone knows how to measure them at all, are extremely complicated, and that's why they're average. I think that's why Minister Korolec raised this standard as if it were to tell the public that something is beginning to be dangerous because these fluctuations, fluctuations from one hour to the next are huge and it is true that if you blow cigarette smoke into such a sensor, it will jump extremely, extremely high. Since we are already on these educational issues, they are extremely important, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is what I was talking about, where there are no theoretically existing emissions or low emissions, pollinations are much greater than in Europe and in the case of leading countries - these are not our countries, but countries that have a large area of desert land, right - this is a big pollination. There's also a lot of pollination in Ukraine and not necessarily just because they have a lot of cars, but there are other pollinations, that you have to remember. Ladies and gentlemen, my time is running out. You said: system solutions. Yes, it is. There's a steering committee. In this steering committee are also [[♪ The bell ♪]] Local governments, there is also a minister of health and we try to approach it, but at the same time approach it in a very rational way and not as if to beat capital, in a sense, to scare society. It's gotta be solved. This needs to be dealt with in a genuinely systemically and we are actually working in this direction. This cooperation with local authorities is extremely, extremely important here, and from this point of view we are prepared in the way we can be prepared, namely that at the moment we have about PLN 10 billion to run these programs, and these programs are being launched. I can tell you that our goal - and here, Mr. Marshal, I am sorry, I am finishing - is to use what has happened in this direction to improve and activate the society, to launch really Polish possibilities towards the one side of Polish consumption, good energy resources from Polish coal exploitation, and thus somehow eliminate this coal, which comes... on the basis of Polish technologies also, clean combustion. These Polish clean combustion technologies are, except that these boilers, as far as I know, go for export rather than are consumed here in Poland. So that, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for this debate. I think that this government, which I have the honour to represent as a minister of the environment, really attaches importance to this, seeing on the one hand the society and the distribution in terms of profitability, and on the other hand seeing opportunities and the Polish economy, which should work to improve air quality. Once again thanking you for this debate, I hope that such a debate could also take place on issues such as: Nature 2000, where there are a great deal of misunderstandings, and acting quite actively within the Union, we have managed to bring about a review of the Birds and Habitat Directive. I have sent all this information to you, to local authorities, also to all parties, in order to start a worthy debate in this area and at the same time to have a major impact on what will happen in the legal system in a united Europe. It would be good if we conducted such a debate on the example of the Białowieża Forest and also on the example of pollen, because there you can see exactly what was pollination in 1650 due to cereals in the Białowieża Forest. Thank you very much, thank you very much for the debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u195	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u196	Minister! During this debate, these outstanding local governments in the country, which have been introducing technologies for many years, financial mechanisms to reduce the problem of smog in their region, have been repeatedly invoked. It called for the replacement of old boilers, the control of garbage incineration, geothermals in Toruń, the funding of new technologies. I have a specific question: Which local authorities stand out in their many years of work in eliminating the problem of smog and which of their ideas, solutions could be used throughout the country? I'm asking for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The problem of smog and so-called. low emissions are a civilization phenomenon. It is often associated, on a global scale, with difficult climate and poverty, because cold and lack of financial resources are the main reasons why low-quality coal or garbage are burned in furnaces. But smog also occurs in world metropolises, such as: in the capital of the world film industry in Los Angeles or in rich London. Smog in Los Angeles is created in sunny days with a lot of traffic. Car burns react with sunlight, resulting in the formation of the so-called. bad ozone. London smog, also known as acidic, consists, among others. carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide, dust and soot. It occurs in the winter in a temperate climate zone. It causes a significant reduction in the visibility, shortness of breath and irritation of the skin. The European Environment Agency has developed a ranking of the most polluted cities in Europe. Unfortunately, in the top ten of the most polluted cities there are as many as six Polish cities: Kraków, Nowy Sącz, Gliwice, Sosnowiec, Katowice and Zabrze. I therefore address the Minister: What is the nature of the smog occurring in most large cities in Poland? What measures are being taken by government and local government to gradually reduce air pollution in most Polish cities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u198	We should now proceed to the next point, but we are waiting, as I understand it, for Mr Matusiewicz, the rapporteur all the time. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: It is, it is, it is.]] This is Mr Matusiak, Mr. And we are waiting for Mr Matusiewicz. So, High Izbo, three minutes of technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 42 hours 12 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (prints No. 888 and 1189). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, the draft is included in print No 888. Marshal of the Sejm at the 29th meeting of the Sejm on 3 November 2016 pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for its consideration. The Extraordinary Commission has set up a permanent subcommittee on changes in criminal law. The permanent subcommittee shall be composed of five members. At the meeting of the three-member subcommittees, this position was taken that there was no support for the three-member subcommittee. One Member was in favour, one against, one abstention. This report was presented at the next Extraordinary Commission meeting on 12 January 2017. At this meeting, the Extraordinary Commission reviewed this proposal and introduced amendments. This presentation by the government is primarily a novelization of the article. 115 criminal code. Let me remind you that this is so-called. A dictionary of legal terms. The concept of significant damage is introduced in this project, i.e. when the value at the time of the act exceeds 200 thousand. zł. The concept of great damage is also introduced, i.e. when the value at the time of the act exceeds PLN 1 million. More stringent sanctions in the form of imprisonment have also been applied. This is intentional because of the extent of the damage that can be caused by the mass extortion of VAT. The concept of invoice, which is already legally known, has been accepted as there is a provision in Article. 2 point 31 of the Act of 11 March 2004 on tax on goods and services. The invoice shall be understood to mean a document in paper form or in electronic form containing the data required by the laws and regulations issued pursuant to it. Additional provisions have been introduced in this draft into part of the Criminal Code: Crimes against documents, namely Article. 270a § 1, 2 and 3. These prohibited acts, which we introduce, can all be committed only on purpose, i.e. with a direct intention or a possible intention. There is no criminalisation of such acts in the case of involuntary crimes. There is also a provision in the various articles concerning the so-called. a more stringent qualification. Where this is a damage caused in the property of great value, up to five times the value of this property, i.e. if it exceeds PLN 5 million, it is a threat of imprisonment from years 3, i.e. an act which in the language of criminal law constitutes a crime, but is also accepted a minor accident, then acts at risk of imprisonment up to years 2, in which case the provisions on conditional remission may be applied, provision may be made for exceptional relief or withdrawal from the penalty in the event of compliance with certain statutory conditions. There is also a provision for a further act prohibited in Article. 271a § 1, it concerns the perpetrator who issues the invoice or invoices, the total value of which is significant, i.e. more than 200 000. zł. There is also a qualified figure of this act, i.e. the case of the perpetrator who issues an invoice for an amount greater than five times the amount determining the value of the property, i.e. more than 5 million PLN. Also here is a minor accident. As regards the criminalisation of the next specific prohibited act, an Article is introduced. 277c § 1: Who shall commit the offences referred to in Article. 270a § 1 or 271a § 1 Penal Code - just mentioned by me - in relation to the invoice or when there is a total amount of charges, the value of which is greater than ten times the amount which determines the value of the property of great value, i.e. more than 10 million PLN, and this must be the value of this public debt, it cannot be confused with the value of the invoice, it is the value of the public debt, i.e. the amount of the tax. There have also been changes to the Police Act, the Border Guard Act, the Military Gendarmerie Act, the Central Anti-corruption Office Act and the National Tax Administration Act. These are changes resulting from the introduction of these new offences, namely those just mentioned by me, in the article. 270a, 271a and 277c. As far as these offences are concerned, law enforcement authorities will have the possibility to conduct so-called offences. operational control and the approval of operational operations must be given by a district court. Also during the second reading work, the date of entry into force of the Law was changed to 1 March 2017. On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission, I ask the High House to support this government submission, currently published in print No 1189. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u200	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request the support of this government project. This project is necessary to regulate VAT fraud cases. The project concerns the inclusion of new criminal offences related to VAT fraud, in particular under the Penal Code, as the current rules resulting from the provisions of the Tax Penal Code are insufficient. There is also a threat of imprisonment, but in most cases it is punishments up to 5 years, and in case of sharpening only up to 10 years. I would like to stress here that in the legislation of other Western countries, the threat of tax offences being punishable is very severe and, in principle, more penalties are imposed, e.g. in the UK, the basic penalty is up to 7 years of imprisonment, but it is foreseen even life if it is a conspiracy to deceive the public budget, and it is not only the state budget but also the local budget. In the United States, there is legislation in some states that is very strict. I will remind you of the punishment one of Bernard Madoff's famous entrepreneurs suffered - 150 years of imprisonment. So the charges that arose during the work on this project, that these penalties are too severe, do not deserve to be shared. High Izbo! In 2014 fictitious invoices were issued for the amount of PLN 33 billion. In 2015 there were fictional invoices for the amount of PLN 81 billion. 81 billion PLN is about 1/5 of the state budget. It is high time that such cases do not take place and that appropriate sanctions are met by those who commit tax fraud or even carry out criminal activities, setting up fictional companies that only issue invoices. They are also displayed by companies that actually carry out business activities, on apparent activities, on activities that never took place. There are about eight examples of such standard frauds that economic operators commit and therefore there is a significant reduction in the tax due and in the tax charged for reimbursement. This law provides for exceptional relief of penalties for perpetrators or accomplices if, earlier than the law enforcement authorities have heard of the offence, these facts are disclosed and even waive the penalty if the perpetrator returns the tax in full or in a substantial part. Once again, I stress that these provisions concern only a certain type of case - crimes must be committed on purpose and it is for law enforcement and courts to determine - so that it is actually shown - that these crimes are committed only on purpose. And those who make mistakes, errors in invoices, just accounting errors, will not be punished, because this can evidently be classified as a case of recklessness in action, a form of involuntary guilt. The Law and Justice Club therefore supports this government submission and requests its adoption by the High House. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u202	Thank you, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Improving VAT collection and combating tax fraud is extremely important, but we will not be able to support this law for at least five reasons. First of all, I would like to remind you that on 1 January this year new VAT rules and amendments to the Tax Code have been introduced, which already significantly tighten the sanctions for understatement, for overpayment of VAT refunds, for issuing empty invoices. The mechanism for applying VAT reversed was introduced to a wider extent, changes were made to the registration and registration of VAT-axes, reduced quarterly VAT accounts. All measures to increase sanctions, including for crimes, multiple tax offences, are just starting to work and maybe it would be worth seeing how they work before we introduce further restrictions. Secondly, in this project the penalty is removed from the actual losses that occurred in the state budget. It is almost as if the purpose of this law is to make such a detachment happen. However, with such a detachment - and it is sometimes so that the value of the invoice itself is quite high, but because the rate was low, so also the loss was not so big, what's more, it may be that there was no reduction, but it was found that the invoice was wrongly displayed, falsified, wrong date, some other data - the penalty must occur. Thirdly, dualism is being introduced here in the proceedings against the taxpayer. On the one hand, his case will be the subject of proceedings by the tax office, before which he will have to explain himself, to be explained. And he may come to an agreement with this tax office in the sense that he will pay the penalty, pay the amount resulting from the correction, introduce a supplement. But all of this -- there might even be a waiver of the criminal case -- all of this doesn't change anything, and it doesn't tie prosecutors into criminal proceedings. Still, this entrepreneur whose case was even dismissed may be responsible to the prosecutor for somehow making the wrong invoice that something was wrong there. Fourthly, horrendous punishments are being introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, penalties are introduced to 25 years in prison, and the minimum penalty in many cases is 5 years in prison. These are more drastic punishments than mass rape with child cruelty. These are more drastic punishments than for overthrowing the constitutional authority of the Polish state. The National Judicial Council clearly states in its opinion that the introduction into the Criminal Code of so drastic penalties for financial-type offences that the introduction of them into legal order will make the system of criminal penalties internally inconsistent. However, the Penal Code has a hierarchy of goods that we protect and a hierarchy and a systematicisation of penalties. As drastic punishment as 25 years in prison would be some kind of disharmony in the Penal Code. There is talk of deliberate guilt, as the rapporteur was polite to note. This is because there are very many VAT rates, complicated rules, and sometimes in absolute good faith, but intentionally, you can enter a different rate, and then it turns out that the interpretation has changed, that there is a new interpretation, that there is a different assessment of a given service or a given product. We've had a lot of cases like this before. I would like to remind you, for example, of these famous recess cabinets, which for some time were subject to tax reduced as part of a building element, and at some point the tax offices began to interpret that it was a furniture that could be changed, pulled out, and, in fact, the rate of 23 percent was applied to this, and so many entrepreneurs were punished. This law does not lead to increased detection of crime, and this is ultimately the most important, not the very application of some very high penalties. For all these reasons, we believe that the introduction of these solutions is premature. It is underdeveloped, creates dualism and greatly increases uncertainty in the operation of entrepreneurs. He'll do more harm than good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u204	Thank you, sir. And Mr Jerzy Jachnik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After my first reading, I pointed out that the idea of tightening penalties for VAT fraud is a good idea, while the idea itself is fatal. I'm going to start with this end, which I've been paying attention to the previous time, so from the moment when the VAT agreements or carousels will be set up and treated as if they were a crown witness. So they're gonna expose the fact of the crime, and they're gonna tell us who it is -- and that's the biggest danger -- whether it's the right person or not. And thus, while such persons themselves are fraudsters, they will go free or receive less punishment for those who have fallen victim to their infidelity, often fictitious. I place special emphasis here on the case of the Crown witness, because the Crown witness in Poland was completely compromised by the prosecutor's office. The coroner in the Polish criminal trial began to be treated as the only evidence also in court proceedings. You've got to think about it. The coroner's witness may be evidence of operational activity, he may not be evidence in court, otherwise we will always face suspicion, and such cases were already full that the coroner's witnesses, to leave, signed something and handed it to anyone who was planted. And these are unacceptable situations. Besides, I'm wondering if... because you can see it just because it's from a draft bill that the bill was made exclusively by the carnivalists, without agreement with the financiers or with the tax authorities. There's no connection here. I ignore the fact that criminal proceedings - as Mr Święcicki said - are also conducted separately today, although I do not know if this is right, and in this situation we should think about it. There's one other thing that I don't think you're thinking about in this situation. Well, I've been an entrepreneur for many years, and if I were an entrepreneur, I'd really be wondering if I could move the company. And I want to say that I met with many entrepreneurs after first reading and they told me that if these regulations came into force, they register a company outside Poland. The company will operate de facto in Poland, but its headquarters will be outside Poland, because they will not risk all their assets just because the tax official or the prosecution will say: it was a crime, intentionally or unintentionally - because there is also such suspicion that for theirs it will be an involuntary crime, for the non-negligible. Let me give you another example here. Previously, I gave this example that a multimillion-dollar crook wasn't sitting, and now I'm going to give you one of the last examples of using this so-called one. A witness to the Crown. Entrepreneur, crook, actually, 600,000. For VAT crimes, and for reporting on people, he gets 20,000 for his competition, which he wants to finish. fines and is decommitted in criminal proceedings. If we apply the rules that way, we will never find this VAT, and the method of intimidation is not the method that will change anything in this situation. I think that Prime Minister Morawiecki will have to think at the end of the year about verifying and amending the budget, because taxes, instead of being paid in the country, will be paid out in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany. This will actually be the case, and this should also be considered. The bill is wrong. As a Kukiz club15, we certainly won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u206	Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the club's position on the report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 1189. First of all, the position expressed by the government - the State should have appropriate instruments to combat tax fraud, especially fraud against goods and services. This is probably beyond dispute, but these instruments must not violate fundamental constitutional values, as should be clear enough not to constitute a source of doubt for entrepreneurs who operate in Poland. During the work of the codification committee, the government party made some good amendments, including. increasing the amount of the threat of criminal sanctions for false invoices from the original amount of 1 million to 5 million and with increased qualifications from 5 to 10 million. These are indeed good amendments, as they can eliminate these smallest entrepreneurs as regards the possibility of imposing such penalties in the case of VAT invoices. On the other hand, contrary to what was claimed both at first reading and during the work of the committee, it remains based on the assumption of criminality on the overall amount of the invoice. This is really unacceptable. Criminal penalties, the penalisation of certain acts should be based on public claims arising from invoices, the amount of tax on goods and services. And here there is no need to refer to the tax procedure, to whether the tax procedure does not prevent it, because the amount of the duty on goods and services can be calculated from invoices. At the moment, the rules that the government is proposing mean that a lower tax reduction in VAT, even by half, will be punishable by three times the penalty. This is a completely illogical and unclear recipe. The situation of the Article raises equally important doubts. 270a, I'm sorry, Art. 271a, which allows the possibility of criminal penalties also if factual data other than factual data are provided on the invoice, i.e. de facto the possibility for the trader to make an error in the invoice. The errors in the invoice are sanctioned, and no matter what you say, that we are dealing with intentional guilt here, it is very difficult to find objective criteria for distinguishing error from intentional guilt, all the more so because we are talking about a tax on goods and services, which is a very complicated tax, for which interpretation is very much, but, moreover, we are dealing with a tax which is an EU tax, and therefore the provisions of the directive apply first. Therefore, if the taxpayer does not agree with national law, he may, because EU law is more relative to him, apply EU law directly, while the tax authority, as I understand it, will be bound by national law. What's the big deal? Are we dealing with deliberate guilt? This will be sanctioned in accordance with national law. This really leads to very significant uncertainties in the conduct of business activities and on the one hand, solutions are proposed for the benefit of entrepreneurs, the Code of Administrative Procedure, but on the other hand there are dozens of laws, among others. that law which introduces significant uncertainty in the conduct of business. There is also a draconian penalty of 25 years for errors in invoices relating to companies. The inadequacy of this penalty to the extent of the culpability, but also the location in the criminal system, have highlighted the government side in many opinions of both entrepreneurs, public opinion, business unions, as well as the Government Legislative Centre, as well as the Legal Office of the Sejm. You're on the agenda, and you think only the Minister of Justice is right. Such laws will actually lead to the departure of entrepreneurs [[♪ The bell ♪]] beyond the borders of the country, hence the Modern Posel Club will definitely not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u208	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u209	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, which are contained in prints No. 888 and 1189. This proposal is now coming back to the session of the Sejm after work in the Extraordinary Commission on codification, but the amendments of the committee do not change the essential shape and key provisions of the amendment. The main objective of today's draft amendment to the Penal Code is to reduce the VAT gap and improve its collection. Like the previous speakers, I will also express full compliance with the authors of the amendment, because we are also the PSL Posel Club of the same opinion as the State, but the difference is how to do it. I see, Minister, such a rule that, regardless of what category of crime you are dealing with in your recent amendments, which, as far as the Penal Code is concerned, is much, the only tool that applies is the severity of the penalty. I assume that this is probably a principle close to Mr Ziobra, which has consistently been expressing this principle for years, and therefore very often the Ministry confirms this principle in action, and this is not fully effective. I am not saying that by tightening penalties, there is no improvement to some extent, but this is not the effect - based on the efficacy study - on which we would like to see it. We actually have a problem with VAT collection in Poland. It's not a matter of last year, two or five or eight years. This is a rather destructive phenomenon from the very beginning when it comes to the state budget, and this is also the case, but as the previous speakers said, if we only put the threat of punishment at risk, the effect may be the opposite, because instead of increasing the culpability it will manifest itself primarily in the form of the outflow of entrepreneurs to other neighbouring countries. Undoubtedly, with such a rapid increase in the scale of the crime, more severe penalties are needed, but it cannot be asked whether these 25 years of imprisonment are adequate and proportionate. I will not mention such drastic examples as those of Mr Święcicki, but something is going on. Isn't it better to focus on the recovery by the Treasury of extorted amounts? Would it not be better to prevent it than to focus on punishment? And to prevent in this case means to formulate VAT rules so as to at least try, to try... I know, I realize that this is not the kind of thing that's gonna happen if you touch a magic wand, but it's about making VAT rules so that these frauds are much less possible. In our view, such a high threat of punishment cannot be considered adequate to the prohibited act described in the amendment under discussion today. We note that 25 years of imprisonment is the penalty provided for in the Penal Code for the most serious crimes - that's what I said earlier. On several occasions, in cases of VAT fraud, allegations are made against businesses who have acted lawfully. This is because they were involved in the supply chain, in which at some point someone committed a crime. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law enforcement authorities of all those involved in such a chain treat equally, and this is also a thing that should not happen. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, with so many doubts, does not see the possibility of supporting this project either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u210	Thank you. Mr Ireneus will gain.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and certain other laws, prints Nos 888 and 1189. The project refers to the negative for public finances of the phenomenon of VAT fraud, mainly through so-called. VAT carousels. Its appalling scale is clearly demonstrated by the data reported by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Against the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities presented to the High House in June The report showed that the value of the contested invoices increased from PLN 18.7 billion in 2013 to PLN 81.9 billion in 2015. Only in 2015 360 thousand were disclosed. such invoices, and their average value was approx. 227,000. zł. The measures taken so far by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło to seal the VAT collection and anti-fraud system have produced the desired effect. According to data from the Ministry of Finance for the period January to November 2016, VAT revenues were 7.4% higher compared to the same period in 2015, i.e. up to PLN 8.4 billion. However, this does not mean that the measures already implemented must be stopped. This is why we welcome the bill submitted, recalling, however, that in the case of crimes, not so much the threating penalty is important, but the effectiveness of prosecuting such offences by developing mechanisms used by the police, the prosecutor's office and the treasury. The introduction of a central invoice register is a good solution in this respect, which I have mentioned several times from this point of view. This proposal concerns the inclusion of criminal offences related to VAT fraud by specific rules of ordinary criminal law in the Penal Code, while respecting the possibility of qualifying acts in the event of their minor social harm as criminal acts in the Tax Code. Several amendments have been introduced in the course of the Extraordinary Commission's work on changes in codification, which should be assessed positively. First of all, we are talking about raising the amounts that determine the amount of the penalty. It is to serve this purpose to introduce a concept of value of property, which is five times higher than the concept of property of great value, i.e. more than PLN 5 million, in the case of a crime at risk of punishment for years 3 imprisonment - art. 1 point 2 of the Act - and 10 times the amount of property of great value, for a criminal offence punishable by punishment for 5 years or 25 years imprisonment - Article. 1 point 4 of the Act. As the Director of the Legislative Department of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Tomasz Darkowski, pointed out in the committee, it is necessary to separate all these invoices, which may have even been deliberately falsified, but which were done by ordinary, ordinary entrepreneurs who did not commit large-scale criminal activities, as was the case with the VAT mafia. It turned out that according to statistics, the largest VAT carousels were generated in the case of amounts exceeding PLN 5 million. It is equally appropriate to assess the addition of a provision introducing a case of minor importance to the said criminal provisions, which allows for the non-qualifying of an act committed as a crime where the amount entered on the invoice is multi-million, but the public debt appears to be relatively small. Here, too, the proposal that an act would have to be committed on purpose alone should be welcomed. At a later stage of the legislative work, we believe that it is necessary to consider using a Crown Witness in this area - that is what Mr Jerzy Jachnik said in his speech - so that it is not so that the testimony of the Crown Witness, often involved in this case, could be used in the criminal trial as the only evidence of the prosecution. The point is that the testimony of the Crown witness is proof, but at the operational stage, at the stage of police and prosecution proceedings. The fight against organised crime - because this is the way to treat VAT fraud by the Mafia on a large scale, which has a negative and significant impact on the state budget - requires [[♪ The bell ♪]] decisive action. Therefore, the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u212	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. At the moment, I would like the floor of Mr Janusz Sanocki, Mr Non-Associated Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start by giving you two examples. I could give you more examples like that. 13 years ago, in 2003 an audit from the tax office came to the entrepreneur of Opole Tadeusz Byrdak. The inspector told him this evening in a private conversation: "Do you care, Mr. Tadeusz, that the check should go well?" It's gonna cost $10,000. zł. To this day Byrdak cannot ask the prosecution to make his requests, his complaints have been dealt with and, of course, the company has been placed, although it was clean. The second example. I have many such examples. A Nysa entrepreneur who produces geofibrosis sells some of the goods to another company. This stuff doesn't go through his warehouse. Although taxes are paid everywhere, the IRS is after him for the VAT carousel because the goods weren't in his warehouse. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, this type of legislation cannot be written in the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice, I have this impression, is showing off in front of the audience as he pursues criminals, but there is no experience in the functioning of the economy. [[Applause]] Here criminals were, are and will be, while victims will be normal entrepreneurs. It's an incredibly harmful bill that's actually... I am sorry, I am really here to support what I can, to the rapporteur personally, I have great respect, but this is an absolutely harmful act. And these draconian punishments... Where do we live? Ladies and gentlemen, if such a punishment would prevent real criminals from committing such extortion, then we should put in place a death penalty. I'm sure there'll be no crime. I'm sure you can't support this bill. I'm asking you to back off because she's gonna have extremely negative effects. Putting so draconian punishments in the Penal Code, in a situation where we see the prosecution working in the Amber Gold case... This is not only the way the prosecution works in Gdansk, this is how the prosecutor's office works everywhere in Poland, Marcin P. will be able to defend himself, the property is hidden there somewhere. But really real, small, honest entrepreneurs will be caught on cases that really cannot be avoided in this complicated mechanism, and we are giving the opportunity to impose powerful penalties on the official apparatus, which is inoperable, very often corrupt. It's just gonna lead to a lot of innocent people getting hurt, being punished. It's just economic life is gonna shrink. The companies will be transferred. In the southern part of Poland this is currently a notorious situation. Entrepreneurs are moving to the Czech Republic because it is no longer possible to do business in our country without having the great sword of Damocles over us all the time. I ask you to withdraw from this bill, analyze it, because it is simply a law that will bring extremely much damage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. There's five people on the list. Anyone else want to sign up? I can't hear you. So I'm closing the list. Ms Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, will begin. One and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The idea of a better sit, as far as VAT is concerned, is, of course, very good and all the clubs here have expressed a positive opinion on this. On the other hand, the way it is implemented is far from what we would like to work on in this High House. I have a question: Is this bill in one form, not another, that really pushes the draconian punishments sometimes for the lack of crime or alleged crime, and at the same time promotes smart people who, in order to defend themselves against a powerful punishment, simply report to their business colleague, who may have a much less conscience than an informer, must be prosecuted? What really is the second bottom of this project? Is it not to bring out a great business from Poland to neighbouring countries? Isn't it a big economic collapse in Poland? A normal entrepreneur, a normal Pole who wants to live in this country, is not in the mind that for a random crime - accidental in the sense that he will find himself, not knowing about it, in the criminal chain - he can spend 25 years in prison without working off that penalty without repairing the consequences, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and burdening only the finances of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm sure you know these cases. The fuel dealer brought the fuel to the farmer's yard, sold it, the farmer paid in cash, received the invoice. And now it's just that this carrier, the dealer, wasn't caught, he didn't pay those taxes to the IRS, and now you're racing a farmer for buying them. He paid that tax. How can you race a farmer? He didn't do anything. What choice does this farmer have, Minister, from this situation? Where have the offices been for years? Where were the tax offices, customs police, that these criminals weren't being hunted? After all, it was known that they drive, trade almost officially, and that they didn't pay taxes. Will this bill mean that such sneaky entrepreneurs will no longer be or will be very little? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about how to prepare this bill. Namely, when it comes to the relationship between the state and business, we have a lot of problems, that the prosecution of criminals, tax enforcement, the fight against tax fraud sometimes also hits those people who have been wrong, acted in good faith, are ready to supplement those amounts, and not catch those who disappear, those companies that have taken advantage of the VAT recipient, and then they register and there are no companies, companies that overpay VAT returns. Because of these misunderstandings, examples were given here... There are many examples, there are thousands of examples of honest, honest entrepreneurs who have fallen because of this, who simply have not been able to bring about some sort of order in these long-term conflicts. Now, from 1 January, new drastic regulations have entered, some of them very debatable, which can expand this field. I wanted to ask if you were listening to the business community, what the impact of this bill could have. Have you heard their opinion? Is it worth the skin for a trip? Because I know that the Ministry of Justice wants to prove that it will also fight this crime, but so drastic punishments, even where there are no minorities, where there are various mistakes and mistakes, can simply lead to the fact that intimidating companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the number of misunderstandings will only increase. How were opinions used, and were there, business environments in the preparation of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two short questions. First: Aren't you worried as the applicant of this project about the distortion of the consistency of the penal system in Poland under the Penal Code? And the second point I wanted to ask is, however, the correlation between the amount of the penalty in relation to, for example, the amount of VAT revenue that the trader has reduced and the question of only participating in the supply chain, so without an active role in some organised criminal activity, without an active role in the initiative to reduce the revenue of the state budget. Why are there no clear rules as to the correlation between the amount of punishment and the role involved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u222	Thank you very much. And Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, will ask the last question in this part of the process.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u223	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Can't applicants see such a danger that if we have such a gigantic punishment, it could actually be pathology on the other hand? Here Mr Sanocki rightly referred to various very drastic examples, but this can happen. What is your answer on this issue? What about those entrepreneurs who, as my esteemed previous speaker mentioned here, will not be part of the supply chain because of their fault? What about them? What about temporary arrests, which, with such a gigantic punishment, is likely to apply? This is destroying people, destroying families. I don't think it's that way. Dear Minister, I suggest simplifying taxes above all, simplifying VAT. I'd like to remind you that if we want to make a hot dog, we can use mustard for 8%. VAT and we can use mustard sauce for 5% VAT. This is pathology. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you should focus at the beginning on simplifying this gigantic mess that we have in Polish regulations and only then punishing for 25 years in prison for not being able to find in these regulations. Dear Minister, we will actually punish those who cannot defend themselves and who will be weaker. You guys are gonna show up, of course, but this isn't the way. You will punish Polish entrepreneurs, mainly those who are honest, because they are thick [[♪ The bell ♪]] fish will always get away with it, unfortunately, with such solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u224	Thank you very much, sir. With this question, we have exhausted the list of MEPs. At the moment, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Warchoł, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all your questions. I'll get right to the answer. Marcin Święcicki asked a question about how to work and how to listen to entrepreneurs. Yes, our project was consulted with a wide range of entrepreneurs. I will only appeal to the chairman of the Leviathan Tax Council, who stated publicly in the media after consulting the project with us, quote: I do not know anyone who would defend the organiser of VAT fraud, even if the latter would threaten life. Yet, the revision of the Penal Code does not imply such punishment. So that's probably a sufficient statement of the person who deals with it on a daily basis, the expert. Another issue - the issue of the inadequateness of the penalty has been raised on several occasions. I just wanted to mention that, from 1997 onwards, the Penal Code has been subject to a penalty of 5 to 25 years imprisonment for counterfeiting money. And yet we have a completely inadequate situation in the case of counterfeiting money and in the case of deliberate counterfeiting of invoices. Our project was preceded by a series of analyses, above all by practice. Today, the number of recent years, which was the amount of thinners resulting from fictitious invoices, has already fallen many times. They reached, at the end of 2015, a gigantic scale which was almost equal to the budget deficit. This must definitely raise opposition, and I will remind you that we started in 2013 with a loss of PLN 5 billion, and we reached a loss of more than PLN 40 billion by the end of 2015, which is a huge increase. I do not know any other country in the European Union, such research we have done, no other country has suffered such loss in 2 years, from PLN 5 billion to PLN 40 billion. This is the gigantic scale of the abuse of criminal groups, the impunity of criminal groups, because that's what we're talking about. We're not talking about entrepreneurs who are wrong. I'll get right to the question of good faith. We are talking about organized criminal groups targeted at extortion of gigantic sums, and it is absolutely not about not paying the tax due. I would like to stress very strongly that there are secondary issues of tax losses, the failure to pay the tax due. It was also raised. This is clearly about extorting an undue refund of VAT, and we are regulating this situation. First of all, our goal is to refrain from investigating whether public debts have been reduced and at what level. It was in your questions and statements, your messengers and your Members, that we are really pulling away from this, but with full awareness. Why? The situation so far was that the judicial authorities, the prosecutors' authorities, were waiting for a final decision, I stress, the tax administration, a judicial decision was often required to legitimise itself. It took years, and when the criminal investigation authority, when the prosecutor received the case, there was nothing left to recover, there was nothing to pursue. Some empty companies that have long gone through money, through a whole specific chain of planned fraud. One court, it is characteristic, pointed out that such activities hit the economic basis of the functioning of the State, the District Court in Olsztyn in one of its judgments, and in this particular case the scale of fraud amounted to more than PLN 50 million, PLN 50 million only in one case. The characteristic thing, this case we're looking at, is also significant. How much have you recovered? 4 million PLN. Why? That's because the perpetrator himself paid it as a security for the VAT liability. So it's absurd that the state has recovered so far in this type of case. only what the perpetrator paid as collateral, so that the situation absolutely requires action. And I'm going to point out some of the decisions we've been looking at. In one of the cases the District Court in Krakow ruled 20 million PLN in case of extortion. zł. In another case, the District Court in Rzeszów was about the loss of over PLN 7 million, where even PLN 16 million of fines and 5 years of imprisonment were at risk, and the penalty was 40,000. zł fine. This kind of situation can be multiplied. This shows that we must act, we must act decisively. It is not true that we do not provide for measures that only punishment is our only purpose, to tighten up this penalty, as Mr Paszyk said here. Please note that, after all, we provide for an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty, we provide for a waiver, we provide for a minor accident, we provide for a whole range of cases concerning the prosecution and detection of such offences. This isn't just about punishment. The concept of these acts concerns the prosecution of them in the pre-field, namely the prosecution of empty invoices, fully consciously and intentionally, with a direct or possible intention. This isn't about involuntary guilt, it's not about carelessness, it's not about error, it's not about error, it's absolutely all kinds of mistakes, mistakes or misinterpretations are beyond the scope of criminalisation. There has often been a statement in the discussion, in the questions, that we will criminalise the behaviour that the taxpayer has a different conviction about tax interpretation, the tax authority - others and therefore the taxpayer will be harassed for a different interpretation, or in the case where Mr Święcicki pointed out, doubts in relation to EU law - national law. Absolutely designed law does not apply to this. Why? All cases of different interpretation, even if they were wrong, are not subject to willfulness, are not subject to direct intent. I think I've exhausted all the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u226	In that case, thank you, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the committee, I wanted to respond in a complementary way to some of the club speeches and also to the questions asked. High Seym! The allegations that these laws impose severe sanctions are really pointless. There must be a severe sanction for such crimes. You refer to the fact that the most serious crimes against health and life are at risk of similar severe penalties, but tax offences are also the most serious crimes - against the state budget above all, but it can be said more widely that sometimes also against the state system, because without the budget the state cannot function. I remember that in 1997 there was such a broad legal discussion that this new 1997 Penal Code introduces such a serious criminal threat for counterfeiting money, punishment for up to 25 years of imprisonment. And yet this is the basic protection of our means of payment and it is the legislator who decides on the system of penalties, if necessary, to introduce such criminal threats in respect of these tax offences as well as VAT. After all, we are no exception, there are severe threats everywhere, punishments after several years of imprisonment. We have given examples, and in the government's submission also, how it looks to violate tax regulations, for conspiracy to reduce the state budget or even local budgets - in the UK there is a risk of life imprisonment, in the United States there is a strict law in individual states for tax offences, so it is high time to introduce it in Poland. There were such claims that there was no increase in detection that there were no procedures. On the contrary, a number of laws have been amended here, also in the field of operational activities. After all, amendments have been made to the Police Act, the Military Police Act, the Central Anti-corruption Office Act, in the current National Tax Administration Act, where judicial control of operational activities has been introduced. If the competent law enforcement authorities turn to the district court, the court will consider authorising such checks. I would also like to talk about such individual examples as here, as they were said, that someone might get there because someone accidentally made a mistake, a sentence of 25 years imprisonment. Well, there are no such records at all. The penalty of 25 years of imprisonment may be if there is a reduction of public taxes, public law debts of at least ten times that greater damage, i.e. it must be the amount of tax of more than PLN 10 million, and here is an additional mark of the prohibited act as qualified, i.e. it must make it a permanent source of income. There's no one-off crime here. I consider it a practice because the Minister is a legal theorist, and I am a practice. with a 41-year internship, for 38 years I have been pursuing the profession of a lawyer and it is in a border town, Przemyśl, where these crimes are on the agenda and not only those, but also in the field of customs, and yet the duty is nothing but customs, and where the activities of certain tax mafias, not only Polish but also Ukrainian, are concentrated. And it is my professional experience that tells me that in the case of law-making, non-application, these rules are simply necessary for implementation, they are necessary to introduce to defend the interests of our country and that there should be no tax fraud on such a scale. Over PLN 80 billion is around 1/5 of the budget in 2015. It's just this number. She speaks for herself. In this situation, I believe that this government submission is appropriate and deserves the support of the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u228	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of items 17 and 18 of the agenda: 17. First reading of the government draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre (Print No. 1216). 18. First reading of the government draft law Provisions introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre (Print No. 1217). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Zbigniew Babalski to present the justification for the draft laws contained in the specified prints. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u229	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to ask the marshal and the High House for some understanding regarding the time of my speech, because these two laws, the material law, as well as the introductory law, require a broader discussion. Let me start by saying that today we are starting a debate and I am presenting on behalf of the government two laws: on the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Rules introducing a law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. The course of legislative work. Work on the draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre and the draft law The provisions introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre were initiated after the appointment of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of the Group for the optimisation of the functioning of agencies and other subordinate and supervised entities by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development on 28 June 2016. On 23 August 2016, the draft laws were submitted for public consultation and inter-ministerial arrangements. The draft laws were adopted at the meeting on 1 December 2016 by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and recommended for the meeting of the Council of Ministers, which adopted them at its meeting on 17 January 2017. The next day, the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, addressed both projects to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Main targets. The process of assessing the functioning of paying agencies in Poland, as well as the establishment on their basis of an institution implementing responsible development of agriculture and rural areas, is one of the main objectives to achieve, which are included in the programme of activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for the years 2015-2019. There are three agricultural agencies in the current state of law in the area of agriculture, i.e. Agricultural Restructuring and Modernisation Agency, Agricultural Market Agency and Agricultural Property Agency. The first two agencies, the first two institutions act as accredited paying agencies of the European Union. In social perception, this leads to opaqueness, duplication and blurring of competences and responsibilities in support of agriculture. The proposed regulations are part of the process of optimizing the functioning of agricultural agencies in Poland, which consists primarily of reducing the number of agricultural agencies operating in Poland, i.e. Arimr, ARR and Agricultural Property Agency, to one agency, i.e. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and the creation of a unit responsible for the programming of Polish rural development and management of agricultural real estate remaining in the country's resources, i.e. the National Centre for Agricultural Support, secondly, leaving one paying agency: the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which will be the only one to carry out the tasks of the paying agency of the European Union in the area of the Republic of Poland. It should be stressed that the proposed solution is part of the text of the Article. 7 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 whereby each Member State, having regard to its constitutional provisions, limits the number of accredited paying agencies to not more than one at national level. This is intended in particular to ensure greater transparency of national control systems and to reduce the organisational burden of administration and audit. Thirdly, the use of the resources of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency, which are being abolished, to ensure the functioning of the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Now I'm going to go to the National Agricultural Support Centre. The National Agricultural Support Centre, with its registered office in Warsaw, will be a state-owned legal entity which is an executive agency within the meaning of the Law of 27 August 2009 on public finances, supervised by the Minister responsible for rural development. The National Agricultural Support Centre will be headed by the Director-General appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The National Agricultural Support Centre will also be equipped with field structures corresponding to the administrative division of the country and operating at voivodship level. The basis for establishing the field structures will be their current counterparts to the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency, which are replicating. As a result, the economic aspects resulting from the consolidation of these structures are expected to be positive. This applies primarily to the cost of renting premises or numbers, e.g. executive positions. The legal basis for the action of the National Agricultural Support Centre will be, as in the case of other executive agencies, the statute given by the Minister responsible for rural development, which ensures that solutions can be flexibly adapted to the needs of current tasks while maintaining the priorities of the statutory framework. However, the arrangements currently in place in the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency remain unchanged in relation to the appointment and competence requirements of the person managing the National Agricultural Support Centre and its alternates, as well as those holding management positions where the appointment was maintained as the basis for establishing the employment relationship. At the same time, it is proposed to resolve this issue directly in the draft law in order to eliminate any doubts arising as to who is carrying out labour law activities with regard to the Director-General. As a general rule, the Minister responsible for rural development will carry out work in relation to the Director-General. The requirements for persons managing the National Agricultural Support Centre and their alternates, as well as for managers, are set out in the same way as in the case of the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency. The way in which workers are recruited is not modified in relation to the solutions in force in the agencies that have been abolished, I repeat, the way in which employees are recruited based on the principle of openness and competitiveness is not modified. The rules for the remuneration of workers will be laid down in the remuneration rules established by the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre with the approval of the supervising NKR Minister, i.e. the Minister responsible for rural development. The Director-General and Branch Directors of the National Agricultural Support Centre shall be provided with the competence to issue administrative decisions within the framework of their tasks. This competence is necessary in order to carry out this part of the tasks of the National Agricultural Support Centre, which will be carried out under the legal regime. The financial economy of the National Agricultural Support Centre will be conducted on an equivalent basis to those of the agencies abolished, taking into account the need to combine their specific characteristics, in particular the need for the efficient management of the agricultural property of the Treasury, currently carried out by the Agricultural Property Agency. In financial terms, two separate financial plans for the Agricultural Property Agency and the Treasury's Agricultural Property Resources were an expression of this specificity. The aim of the project is that only the provisions on the financial management of the National Agricultural Support Centre will be included, while the provisions on the stock will remain in the provisions of the Act of 19 October 1991 on the management of agricultural real estate. The National Agricultural Support Centre will carry out the existing tasks of the Agricultural Property Agency resulting from the Act of 19 October 1991 on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate, such as the creation of family farms and the improvement of their area structure, the creation of conditions conducive to the rational exploitation of the productive potential of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury, the marketing of real estate and other assets of the State Treasury used for agricultural purposes, the initiation of institutional and agricultural works on the State Treasury's land and the promotion of the organisation of the State Treasury's private farms, the creation and exercise of rights and shares in shares in livestock farming and farming companies of particular importance for the national economy. The following tasks, which result from the well-known Act of 11 April 2003 on the shaping of the agricultural system, relate in particular to: improving the area structure of agricultural holdings, preventing excessive concentration of agricultural property, ensuring that agricultural activities are carried out on agricultural holdings by persons with appropriate qualifications. The following tasks result from the Act of 8 July 2005 on the exercise of rights to compensation for leaving property outside the current borders of the Republic of Poland for the transfer of part of the funds obtained from the sale of real estate and the lease of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury to finance the compensation fund. In addition, the National Agricultural Support Centre will take over 15 tasks of the Agricultural Market Agency and 12 tasks of the Agency will be delegated to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In particular, the National Agricultural Support Centre will carry out the following additional tasks: monitoring the production of agricultural biogas, the market for bio-components and liquid biofuels, the production of bioethanol, the collection of information on the existing energy infrastructure under construction or planned for the production of electricity from agricultural biogas and the bio-components and liquid biofuels. The next task is to support agri-food promotion funds. The next task is to carry out promotion and information measures aimed at promoting agricultural and food products, with the exception of information and promotion measures for agriculture and food economy carried out by ministers responsible for agriculture, agricultural markets, fisheries or rural development. The next tasks derive from the Act of 12 March 2004 on Social Assistance as an intermediary in the management system of the operational programme under the European Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived, referred to in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 on the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. It is also the task of participating in the programmes referred to in the Act of 11 July 2014 on the rules for the implementation of cohesion policy programmes financed in the financial perspective of 2014 and 2020 as an intermediate institution, an implementing institution or as a beneficiary. KOWR will also carry out delegated tasks from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, among others. as regards the school fruit and vegetables scheme, the aid for the consumption of milk and milk products in educational establishments, the sugar market, including the diversification of the sugar industry, the monitoring of production and the levy on the sugar market, the processing of industrial sugar and the refining of sugar imported from outside the European Union, intervention purchases and sales of agricultural products on individual markets, including butter, skimmed milk powder, cereals and meat. A completely new task will be to support actions for renewable energy sources, in particular in agriculture. In addition, the Council of Ministers will be able to entrust the National Agricultural Support Centre with tasks other than those set out above relating to the functioning of agricultural and food markets. Ultimately, the National Agricultural Support Centre will also have competence in agricultural advice. The next issue I will discuss is the process of setting up the National Agricultural Support Centre. The process of setting up the National Agricultural Support Centre requires amendments to 43 laws. The amendments made to the laws governing the tasks of the agencies consist primarily of separating the existing tasks and competences of the agencies between the newly established National Agricultural Support Centre and, in particular, on the payment tasks of the common agricultural policy, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. As a general rule, proposals for legal solutions do not modify the current behaviour of the authorities in terms of their tasks, but only if they adapt this procedure to the organisational structures of the entities that will take over them. The draft Law Implementing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre indicates as the date of entry into force of the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre on 1 July 2017 and regulates in detail the consequences of the abolition of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency. The main effect of the abolition of these agencies is that they will lose their legal existence on 30 June 2017. However, it is not envisaged for this reason to conduct the process of winding up these agencies, as their tasks, as well as any rights and obligations are taken over by the Act respectively by the existing Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and newly established on 1 July 2017. National Agricultural Support Centre. The draft law provides that the National Agricultural Support Centre shall, as of 1 July, by law, enter into the general rights and obligations of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency, with the exception of the rights and obligations relating to the performance of tasks assumed by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, i.e. purely payment tasks, which will become rights and obligations of that Agency as of 30 June 2017. This will exclude the risk of missing certain rights and obligations when transferring them to new entrants by indicating the overall success of the agencies. The proposed solution concerns all rights and obligations of the agencies, in particular their property, claims and obligations, as well as the replacement of the former Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency, the existing agreements and agreements and the rights and obligations arising from the law, so decisions, provisions and other administrative acts. In this respect, it is particularly important that the National Agricultural Support Centre is the general successor of the Agricultural Property Agency. It shall enter into the rights arising from the existing Article. 5 of the Act of 19 October 1991 on the management of agricultural property of the State Treasury, and thus will be - as is currently the Agricultural Property Agency - a trustee of the State Treasury in respect of the property belonging to the agricultural property of the State Treasury. The National Agricultural Support Centre will therefore exercise property and other property rights in favour of the Treasury. With this solution, it will not be necessary to re-allocate the exercise of these rights to the new unit, that is, the National Agricultural Support Centre. Each agency currently operates on the basis of a financial plan, which is annexed to the State budget. It is therefore necessary to introduce instruments to modify these plans, as well as for the new unit, i.e. the National Agricultural Support Centre, to develop a new financial plan. It is therefore proposed to introduce an adjustment provision whereby the President of the Council of Ministers will be able to carry out, by means of a regulation, the transfer of planned budget revenue and expenditure, including salaries, between parts, divisions and chapters of the State budget, with the exception of public funds directly resulting from the Act. Plenipotentiary. This is the next moment I'm going to describe the proxy's actions. The draft legislation introducing the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre provides that the Minister responsible for Rural Development shall appoint within 3 days of the day following the publication of the Act a representative for the establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre. The purpose of the representative's action will be to organise a National Agricultural Support Centre, in particular: to prepare proposals in the field offices and offices of the National Agricultural Support Centre, to undertake activities related to the acquisition by the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture rights and obligations, including the property of the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency, to undertake activities related to the regulation of labour relations with the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency's staff, to develop a draft financial plan of the National Agricultural Assistance Centre for the period from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2017 and to submit it for approval to the Minister responsible for rural development, to undertake other activities necessary for the start of the activities of the National Agricultural Assistance Centre. The next topic I want to discuss is accreditation. It is also foreseen that, in the period preceding the essential date of entry into force of the Act, a number of other preparatory actions will have to be carried out in order to fully take over the agency's tasks of the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and the National Agricultural Support Centre. In particular, it is necessary to take action to grant accreditation to the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture as a paying agency to the extent that accreditation currently held by the Agricultural Market Agency covers. It is therefore proposed to introduce a provision whereby the Minister responsible for public finances will carry out activities to grant, on the basis of the provisions on the financing of the common agricultural policy as from 1 July 2017, the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture temporary accreditation as a paying agency to the extent necessary to carry out the tasks of the paying agency which, as of the date of entry into force of the Act, will belong to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. And the President of that agency and the President of the Agricultural Market Agency will take action to obtain this accreditation by that date by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Such regulation should enter into force on a date prior to the essential date of entry into force of the Act. It will also form the basis for public spending to take these measures. The next topic - everyone is important, this too - is employee matters. The draft Law, which introduces the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre, provides that the Minister responsible for rural development shall establish, by way of order, the rules for the remuneration of the staff of the National Agricultural Support Centre. Given that the employment proposal at the National Agricultural Support Centre will be submitted to the staff of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency by a proxy before the establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre, it is clear that the rules for the remuneration of workers at the national centre will not yet apply. These rules will be adopted at the earliest on the date of establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre. It is therefore necessary to lay down the rules according to which the agent will propose remuneration to the previous employees of the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency. It is necessary to issue this order in order to enable the proxy to propose to the staff of the two employment agencies at the National Agricultural Support Centre under certain conditions. The rules for the remuneration of workers in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture are laid down in the rules for the remuneration of that agency, as I have already pointed out, and the employment proposal will take into account the conditions resulting from those rules. With regard to changes in the employment relationship, the proposed provisions provide for the provision of an appropriate proxy for the tasks to be carried out by the National Agricultural Support Centre, by the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture within the framework of the tasks assumed by that institution to propose the employment of workers of the agencies abolished in accordance with the lists submitted by the two Presidents, the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency, respectively, in the National Agricultural Support Centre or the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture under certain working and wage conditions. The employment proposal will be submitted by 31 March 2017. On the other hand, the employee will have one month to accept or refuse to accept the proposal. As a result of the adoption of the proposal, the former member of the Agricultural Market Agency or the Agricultural Property Agency will become an employee of the National Agricultural Support Centre or of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, respectively, on 1 July 2017. If the employment proposal is refused, the employment relationship of these workers will expire on 30 June 2017. The same effect, i.e. the termination of the employment relationship, will take place in the event of failure to submit a declaration of acceptance or refusal to accept the employment proposal within the time limit and if, by 31 March 2017, the terms of employment proposed by the proxy or by the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will not be communicated to the persons concerned by 31 March 2017. This is a specific way of putting an end to the agency's workers' employment relationship and it is therefore necessary to introduce rules guaranteeing certain benefits in this respect. It is proposed that these workers should be paid in cash under the rules laid down in the Act of 13 March 2003 on special rules for the termination of employment relationships with workers for reasons not affecting employees. The proposed mechanism will allow for the acquisition of a sufficient number of workers providing work at the Agricultural Market Agency and at the Agricultural Property Agency by institutions that will carry out these tasks after the date of entry into force of the Act, and will not jeopardise the continuity of these tasks. As a result of this regulation, the National Centre for Agricultural Support will count 1778 employees and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will count 11 302 workers. I will add here that from the Agricultural Market Agency to the National Agricultural Support Centre will pass - this is the plan - 483 jobs, 483 people, and from the Agricultural Market Agency to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization is planned to move 322 employees. 'Cause that number could be shocking, 11,000. She was big because this is, if I remember correctly, 313 district units, so... they serve directly to farmers. The proposed rules also lay down the rules for the continuation of judicial and administrative proceedings following the entry into force of the new rules and indicate the authorities competent to amend, repeal, annul or terminate administrative decisions issued in respect of tasks adopted by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the National Agricultural Support Centre, as well as the authorities competent to reopen proceedings completed before the date of entry into force of the Act. In view of the need to carry out transfers of information systems between agencies, expenditure for this purpose is expected to be included in the financial plans of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and the National Agricultural Support Centre for the following years. The last section I'm going to discuss is about benefits. The draft law, the draft laws - because there are two, material and introductory - meet the systemic reform of agricultural agencies operating in Poland. Designed solutions eliminate and improve the negative social duality of agricultural agencies with primarily payment functions. Thus, payment functions carried out on behalf of the European Union and development, promotion and education functions are concentrated in one institution. The socio-economic effect will therefore be to increase the efficiency and efficiency of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the National Centre for Agricultural Support while minimising costs. The implemented optimisation transformations and the establishment of a new institution - the National Centre for Agricultural Support - will bring tangible social benefits and benefits to the state budget through financial savings and the transfer of the saved funds to development activities, possible future tasks that the National Centre for Agricultural Support will be able to carry out. Focusing actions on priority objectives and meeting the objectives of a single point of contact of the beneficiary, see farmer, so-called. a single window and greater availability of support for beneficiaries. Finally, I inform the High House that the draft laws are compatible with European Union law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u230	Thank you very much, Minister, for your performance. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mr Robert Telus to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Gentlemen of the presidents! I don't think I'm gonna surprise anyone if I say I'm gonna start by saying that the Law and Justice Club supports and supports the bill presented. And why would he support it? Among other things, since this law will serve farmers above all, it will improve access to the agency. Secondly, what we have already reported in our programme of Law and Justice before the elections, because the merger of the agency will arrange the offices that support agriculture. At one time we were on the exit of the Bavarian Commission's Agriculture Commission and there was a system going even further, because there all the agricultural agencies, all the offices that support agriculture, together with the paying agency, are in one office, in one building. This means that in each district there is an office, whatever we call it, an agricultural support office, and a farmer who needs help, who needs support, goes to one office and his case is dealt with in this office. I think what the Ministry has prepared at the moment is the first step for a farmer to know where to take care of his business. If we ask not only farmers, but even Members in the Chamber, what the agencies really do, or mention the names of the agencies themselves: Agricultural Market Agency, Agricultural Property Agency, Agricultural Restructuring and Modernization Agency, most people will not know what they do. And we need to sort it out. And what the ministry has now proposed is a big step, and this is a revolution. And I am not surprised that there are some emotions among officials, among employees, I am not surprised that there are emotions, also political ones, because the Ministry has prepared a revolution - a revolution that will serve the Polish farmer. And that is the greatest sense of these changes, so that this proposal serves the Polish farmer. Ladies and gentlemen, all these digital issues that you present to the Minister that there will be fewer bureaucrats, fewer officials in the country, that there will be savings on this, that is important, I will not say that no, because if it is reported that we will save 1 billion or 10 billion... 1 billion in 10 years, it's big money and it's some kind of savings. But really in all this for me as a farmer, for me as a Member of the Law and Justice is the most important point - the point is that the office is friendly with the Polish farmer, and that is the most important goal that this law has. And I hope that the High House will support this project, and we will work together on this project too, because I want to tell you that we already have a few changes in ordering for this bill prepared as a club, which we will report to the committee, but let us work together on this project so that this bill will serve the Polish farmer, Polish agriculture. I think that this is our goal, the purpose of Members, the purpose of Parliament and, above all, the purpose of those Members who are engaged in Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u232	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Civic Platform will not support the government draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Introductory Act. [[Oh...]] Our negative stance is based on a number of reasons. Generally speaking, it is the statutory exemption of 900 persons from both agencies: the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency. I have here a question and doubt whether these 900 jobs will be permanently reduced or whether new jobs will appear at a later date. As far as we know the operating conditions of the administration, that can happen. It is unclear to combine institutions with different functions in the implementation of the common agricultural policy. In our view, this is an act that is detrimental to the state. The arguments concerning the merger of paying agencies are not convincing. Calling on the multiplicity of agricultural support institutions is a misunderstanding, e.g. There are two support agencies in Austria, and there are four in France. Only small countries have one support agency, but Poland does not seem to belong to this group of countries. The establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre as one great institution is, in our opinion, a mistake, because it leads to system failure, dangerous centralization and a sick will to control everything. Minister, we would also like to know what the target role agricultural advisory centres and research institutes will play in the agricultural support process. You mentioned these tasks, but we would like to know in detail how these institutions will be legally empowered throughout the whole support process. The important thing is the accreditation you mentioned. We know that these tasks will be carried out by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as a result of the acquisition of the affairs of the Agricultural Market Agency. In this context, we would also like to know how the article will be implemented. 7 Regulation No 1306 of the Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 Our doubts concern the organisation and execution of tenders, which are implemented by the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency under the current rules on the common agricultural policy. Minister, we also do not know how the issue of information systems serving the National Agricultural Support Centre will be resolved. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will take over the IT system of the Agricultural Market Agency. Is this not a threat to the chaos and timeless service of farmers, especially since a very ambitious date for the entry into force of this law, namely 1 July 2017? We are concerned that this deadline will be respected, whether further mistakes will actually be made at this rate. The National Agricultural Support Centre is to be an institution performing rural development programming tasks, while the draft law does not indicate the instruments to implement them. How? is this task to be carried out and carried out? In our view, the national centre will be an institution which the Minister of Agriculture will be able to control almost manually by means of statutory regulations. On the other hand, the draft introductory law requires detailed legal analysis, especially as regards changes to the laws, which are important and important for the Agricultural Property Agency. These are issues concerning the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the Treasury, the suspension of the sale of agricultural real estate of the Treasury for 5 years or other laws. How are these matters to be resolved? There is a lot of doubt about the wording of the article. The 52nd Introductory Law, which aims to enable the government to carry out cleansings at the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency. The staff of these agencies do not automatically become employees of the new institution, which means that arbitrary decisions will be taken, and we are making it clear, based on political criteria, not substantive ones. We would also like to point out that the negative opinions for this project were submitted by the agricultural authorities, the NSZZ National Commission Bureau of Solidarity, the NSZZ National Council, the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The National Chamber of Commerce or the Social Council in front of the President of the Agricultural Property Agency. Why didn't the government take advantage of those proposals that the social side has proposed? For the reasons set out above, Your Marshal, I ask you to reject the bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u234	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Jarosław Sachajko. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law establishing a national support centre. The Kukiz Club15 takes the view that it is appropriate to combine institutions or offices with similar competences. Already at the beginning of June last year we submitted a draft Food Inspection Act consolidating the five currently operating inspections and regulating this matter in a logical and orderly manner. The Ministry of Agriculture, not wanting to use the project we have prepared, has doubled our work and has been preparing its project for almost 8 months. Such a change is advocated by farmers and farmers at numerous meetings. I hope that a very long wait for this project will have a positive effect for citizens. The current project aims to consolidate the two agricultural agencies, the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency, and to establish a single institution, which will be the National Centre Support for agriculture. These changes are heading in the right direction, but they stop halfway, as Mr Robert Telus said a moment ago. The proposed change is too shallow. It does not touch the heart of the problem, i.e. improving cooperation between the agency and those using its services, i.e. farmers, villagers, groups of agricultural producers, entrepreneurs and local authorities. The beneficiaries will continue to wonder which agency is appropriate to deal with their case. The explanatory memorandum on the financial consequences of the Act was very briefly mentioned, pointing out only that the proposed amendment would bring tangible financial benefits. However, in the current state of sovereign debt, savings from the merger of all three agencies, and not as in the project, two, should be one of the main benefits, of course, apart from improving contact with farmers. I hope that the advantage of the merger of the agency, unfortunately only two, will be the liquidation of executive and managerial posts. From the data provided to me by the Ministry of Agriculture in response to my interpellation, there are 246 people employed at management posts in ANR and ARR, and 1574 are employed in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. If this figure decreases by at least half, it will give tangible financial benefits which should be used to increase salaries for workers who work directly with farmers. It is unacceptable to introduce in the draft law the possibility for the National Agricultural Support Centre, for example, to raise its own bonds for land. There are not at least two reasons for such a liberation. First of all, this is the way to take over the land by foreign capital. Secondly, this is a potential return to creative accounting, which - in the performance of the previous PO-PSL coalition - was condemned in many speeches by Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The existence of this provision in the project precludes the possibility for Kukiz to support the law15. In conclusion, restructuring of agricultural agencies is necessary, but the solution proposed by the Ministry and presented in the government project, which involves a merger of only two agencies, does not reform the rules and functioning of the Agency in a general way. The best solution proposed by Kukiz15 is to consolidate the three agencies into one which will comprehensively address support, advice and raising funds for agriculture and, as a result, will contribute to the two main objectives of directing real aid to farmers and rural areas and reducing unnecessary expenditure in the state budget, i.e. spending money from the budget that all taxpayers pay. We would like to propose that the project be directed to work in the agricultural committee in order to make the necessary amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u236	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Lieder to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u237	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! I will start by saying that the very idea of linking the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency is not, also according to farmers, a bad idea, unless, of course, it is mainly about the exchange of staff and the inconvenient for the government of workers. However, the project raises huge doubts in the environments concerned and raises many questions. Some of them are farmers. Despite the explanations made by Minister Babalski, these questions have been raised all the time. I'm worried, among other things. a very small amount of time to make changes. July this year is way too early. These changes should be really thoughtful and prepared. The liquidation of the Agricultural Property Agency in such a short time without loss to the State Treasury is simply unrealistic. This may pose a risk of destabilising the support scheme for farmers. For example, applications for seed subsidies will still be submitted by farmers to the Agricultural Market Agency, which will cease to exist since July, and the National Agricultural Support Centre will not yet have payment functions. It should be clear at this stage how closely the process of accreditation by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as a paying agency will look like, to what extent it will be carried out and whether this scope is determined with the European Commission. If so, what is the result of these findings? Who will perform them - external auditor, Ministry of Finance or someone else? There is also a question of how the synchronization of financial and accounting IT systems, which currently operate in two different environments, will take place. This is important due to the accreditation process. On the other hand, the accreditation process must be carried out efficiently, as without it, the ARiMR will not be able to spend EU funds. The liquidation of the Agricultural Property Agency may be detrimental to farmers who have contracts with the Agency. Farmers want to know how it will be organised to transfer lease agreements from the Agricultural Property Agency to the National Agricultural Support Centre. This concerns the issue of halting the sale of national agricultural land. The new rules resulting from these changes began to be implemented by the Agricultural Property Agency. Will farmers and local authorities have any real impact on agricultural land trading? The fact that the project is defective is also confirmed by the Ministry of Finance's reservations concerning, among others, the project. low requirements for candidates for the post of director and deputy director of the field branch of the new agency who will not have to have any professional experience or experience in the management position. The director and deputy director of the field departments of the new agency is to appoint and cancel the minister of agriculture, and not - as before - the president of the agency. On the other hand, the Ministry of Digital Affairs pointed out that the draft law gives the new agency too far-reaching powers to access state registers and registers; it is about blank access to all state registers and registers which are reserved for special services. To sum up, after all these comments and because so many people will lose their jobs and we do not know what will happen with them, the Modern Posel Club cannot support this project, but is in favour of passing it to the committee and trying to improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u238	Thank you very much, Member. And to speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I ask Mr Marek Sawicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For obvious reasons, for almost 1.5 years I have tried to be very cost-effective in my speeches and evaluations of the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, because I know exactly how difficult this area is and how difficult it is to make decisions every day. But right now you are proposing a discussion on solutions - as Mr Telus said - revolutionary ones, and I would say: solutions of a far structural nature. This is the discussion you are proposing to us in the Sejm during the discussion, with five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and parliamentary circles. I'll be honest with you, there's a lot of things you could do here, but if you want to make such a profound change, maybe it was worth a deeper consultation before you put it in the Sejm. Also with the opposition. I was convinced - we have known each other in the Seym for many years - that you will start with the question of combining inspections, because without the merger of inspections - and it is not a Kukiz idea, because it was the idea of PiS from 2006, later of the Polish People's Party - there is no way that in terms of processing and above all direct sales in Poland anything will change. The new, last law on direct sales without a combination of inspections and the organisation of the competences of these inspections will also ultimately not accomplish anything. I was convinced that since there is one strong club running Poland, you will first set up a fund to stabilise agricultural income so that farmers would not tremble at every whirlwind about their income. It is clear that these matters are less important to you. We have a situation where you're involved in this kind of mixing. To be honest, you caught the ride, just a little unattended driving, because the fact that paying agencies had to be connected was that the employees of the department we know each other knew exactly - they knew that we were working on this concept - but that the merger of paying agencies should also include the Agricultural Property Agency, which I believe should not exist for at least five years now, should be dissolved, and the land on permanently should be distributed to farmers... [[That's what you had to do.]] Don't break down your hands, because otherwise it's in the coalition system, or when you have a full, independent majority. The earth should belong to those who cultivate it, and that myk that you have done with stopping the sale of the land for five years, it doesn't serve anything. He's just distracting the problem in time. And now that I'm looking at the tasks of the National Agricultural Support Centre, I have the impression that all that's assigned to it is really gonna be stuck in what's related to the Agricultural Property Agency and its resources, and that this section of this agency is really gonna block you from other development-related activities. An important thing and an important question - the Minister Babalski referred to it - is the question of accreditation. I was convinced that since you are submitting this project to the Marshal, with the accreditation of our succession, we do not need to reaccredit anything and ask for anything, and that automatically the new Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is entering into all the accreditations that the market and the restructuring agency have had so far. If you're gonna reaccredit it, I'm gonna be honest with you, I'm starting to understand something here. Since there is a great problem with launching the RDPs, since there is a great problem with the implementation of EU spending tasks, it is necessary to find an excuse for how to justify this inability that we have been dealing with for almost 1.5 years. So if you undertake such a consolidation work, at least the part related to EU funds should be clearly explained. Finally, if it weren't for these doubts, I would be in favour of directing the projects to the committee and working on them, but because you didn't even know what you were creating, because you consulted the union organisations, the social establishment of the Rural Development Agency, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now we have the National Agricultural Support Center... I don't know what's gonna show up at the end. In terms of substance, I really have a number of amendments prepared, I will bring them to committees, but in terms of political and general assumptions, this project and this concept for the Polish People's Party are unacceptable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u240	Thank you very much. And Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre and the draft implementing rules. The National Agricultural Support Centre is expected to improve the effectiveness of the under-economic measures taken in implementing the rural development concept. To this end, it is proposed to remove the current Agricultural Market Agency and Agricultural Property Agency and transfer most of their competences to the newly created office. The tasks currently carried out by the Agricultural Market Agency related to Union payments, including paying EU funds to farmers, taking over the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In addition, due to the complexity and wide range of transformation work, it is proposed that the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development should appoint a representative responsible for the organisation and supervision of the process of setting up the National Agricultural Support Centre. I hope that, as announced, this will allow for cooperation with partners interested in participating in the project. The additional benefit of reducing the number of agricultural agencies is, as the project promoters show, the economic benefits of eliminating the overly extensive system of directors. The reduction of the excessive number of managers and directors will help to fund further development and, perhaps, will allow the appreciation of workers at lower levels, which I welcome. The support expressed for this project during the public consultation is extremely important. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding both draft laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u242	Thank you, Member. Ten people entered on the list of Members wishing to ask questions. Does anyone else want to... [[Yes.]] [[Yes.]] You're welcome, sir. Oh, and the Member. Please sign up. The first question will be asked by Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u243	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Farmers from my constituency appreciate the draft law, which limits the number of agricultural agencies in Poland and creates one paying agency. For them, it is important that all payments will be in one place, i.e. in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, in individual counties. This will be closer to their place of residence. They also care about the content of the service. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Will the employees of the Agricultural Market Agency be transferred to the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and will the number of posts be increased there? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u244	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Marek Kwitek, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First, maybe I'll refer to Minister Sawicki's statement. Minister, you've been eight years old, there's been an opportunity. You guys talked about it, we're taking action. The things that you have been talking about, I'm sure we'll be debating in this Chamber again this year, and we'll be doing that, including the establishment of the State Food Safety Inspection. On the other hand, the establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre will lead to the elimination of the dualism of agricultural agencies with paying functions. The situation so far has been negative for farmers, as such an arrangement has led to a lack of transparency of action, duplication of competences and responsibility for decisions taken. Finally, it will be the institution responsible for rural development taking into account the needs of sustainable development. The main effect of the establishment of the National Agricultural Support Centre will therefore be to increase the efficiency and efficiency of the administration, while at the same time reducing the costs of its activities. Here I have a question for the Minister: What savings can we expect from the merger of the agency over the years? I would also like the Minister to clarify what benefits farmers will have from the creation of the KOWR. Third question: What will the KOWR's activity to stabilise agricultural markets under the common agricultural policy consist of? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And fourth question: When will it be possible to include agricultural advisory centres in the National Agricultural Support Centre? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u246	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill has a high objective - a reduction in the number of public institutions. However, I am concerned about some shortcomings in the justification of the project presented. I therefore ask the following questions. Question one: What savings will be made by combining two agencies into one entity? And second question: How many executive posts will be terminated as a result of the introduction of the procedated law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u248	I would like to ask the question of Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u249	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A new agricultural institution to be the National Centre Support for agriculture will have the powers of the two current agencies. Doesn't the Ministry fear the great organizational chaos, which can affect the quality of services provided to farmers, stakeholders? Is the Ministry planning information campaigns for farmers to help them adapt to the new structures of the agencies? With regard to the doubts and concerns put forward by Mr Kazimierz Plocke, I would like to ask you about the reduction of employment to the level, remind you, 1800 people, i.e. 30%. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know on what basis will be the transition between the staff of the decommissioned agencies and the newly created institution. I'm asking for criteria, terms, conditions. Finally, I ask: What is the Minister's idea of 30% of the crew, the people scheduled to be fired? Okay, here's the thing. As a result of the introduction of this law, the Ministry plans to save PLN 1 billion in 11 years. Whether, due to cost cuts, the site points of the current agencies located, e.g. in small towns? Please respond in writing as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u250	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Lidia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding here on the draft of a new law on the basis of which a new agency is to be created in Poland - the National Agricultural Support Centre. It is intended to take over the tasks of two existing agencies serving the widely understood agricultural market and everything related to agriculture in our country. There are already some questions about names about issues... National means nationwide. Okay, so be it. The question, however, is whether and when, for example, there will be a decisive improvement in the issue. distribution of direct payments to farmers because, after the staff changes last year, we had massive delays in payments? This year, the delays are even greater. Farmers generally sound alarms. How will the savings that are likely to arise after a few years affect the direct service of farmers and the availability of workers in this centre for farmers? Will he continue to have representation also in municipalities and in all powiats? Will there be a full centralisation of agricultural services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u252	Thank you very much. Further questions will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering, and I asked myself, why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? I'll answer that. I think the Minister will take a stand on this, too. I don't think there's a faster way to fill these two agencies with their employees, just their people. These famous 300 directors in one day It's obviously not enough for you. About the ODR, which will be in this newly created institution, including the national support centre, is also foggy. And this is one of the most important elements that exposes even the knowledge of our farmers to say. It is the knowledge of our farmers that is the brake, let's call it the development of our agriculture, hence here, these agricultural advisory centres should be given special attention to their functioning. I think this is also a way of reviewing or looking at existing land lease agreements. Minister! Can you say today, here and now, that there will be no revision of lease agreements with farmers so far? Because I think, among other things. That's what it's all about. Another question. According to which legal procedure will the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency be wound up? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The number of employees who are scheduled to be fired and who are not offered further work is appalling. These questions would be many, but two minutes is not enough time for me to end. I would also ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u254	Thank you very much, sir, but I would like to remind you that time is not two minutes, only one and a half minutes. [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15, will ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u255	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At first, I wanted to refer to Mr Sawicki's statement. I wanted to say - maybe you didn't understand - that we've already submitted this joint inspection project. You as a club existing in Parliament for many, many years we also ask for a project so that we can work on something. I'm sure we'll come up with a very good solution together. I'm gonna go back to what I said earlier. The project assumes the possibility of issuing own bonds for land or property pledges by the National Agricultural Support Centre. It is inconclusive to argue that earlier such provisions in the laws also existed. There's a danger I was talking about someone taking over our land or property that's in the agency's resources. My question concerns the existing agencies and the possibility for them to issue such bonds. How many bond issues have there been in the last 10 years? Are they already paid? I would ask you to answer in writing so that... The committee meeting has already started, but this response is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u258	Excuse me. About Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I have one very brief question: why was the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture not included in the newly created office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, also near Wolni - no, sorry, I wanted to move you, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, absolutely not in my mind - the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u261	I believe in good intentions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u262	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u263	...that it was just a mistake, your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u264	It's just a simple mistake in the record. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u265	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Surely we all care, or at least we should be concerned that all changes affect improvement, better opinions, better farmer service, better understanding of the processes taking place. Minister, I don't know, I've tried very hard to listen, but I haven't been able to pick up a certain question about whether there will be new players. In order for them to function normally, EU funds are paid, accreditation is needed. Will the accreditation of existing entities automatically pass and apply from 1 July 2017? This is very important, in my opinion, because I have in mind the events of previous years that have been discussed in this House about accreditation and delays in payments of benefits or payments to farmers. In addition, I would like to ask you about an additional question: If we want to combine this in good faith, then why can't workers go through with the article. 23, just have to be fired and re-accepted? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Questions come to mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u266	Thank you, sir. Again, I apologize for the mistake of belonging. [[It's okay.]] I invite you to ask Mr Marek Sawicki, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Kwitek! As for those eight years, it's been almost 15 months. There's a saying in my village: don't look back... etc. I would like to ask the Minister: Why will the proxy be appointed initially, as you said, for six months? Does this really give stability to the creation of a new entity when the proxy knows that it will only be until it is established, without the prospect of further management of such a new large company? The second thing, originally the National Agricultural Support Centre - the agency, as you called it earlier in the consultation - was to be launched already on January 1, 2017. Consultation, delayed time... Do you realize, however, that 43 laws must be implemented within the next six months? Is this really compatible with the other institutions? In the new National Agricultural Support Centre, there will be tasks such as renewable energy, agricultural advice. I have a question: How do you plan to harmonise these tasks with the tasks of local government? Is it really just a central unit? And the question about the possibility of borrowing a mortgage: Will it really be the means to use it for [[♪ The bell ♪]] establishing an agricultural income stabilisation fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Sobecka, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u269	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, it has been known for a long time that the Agricultural Market Agency will be connected to the Agricultural Property Agency and will therefore be wound up and transferred to the Agricultural Restructuring and Modernisation Agency. But there are doubts, questions are being asked to our fellow Members: Is the merger planned? Will there be a wider public consultation? Is there going to be a reduction in jobs due to the newly established agricultural institution, the National Agricultural Support Centre? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u270	Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum.]] The last question will be asked by Mr Robert Telus, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I think I will first refer to what Mr Sawicki said, because Mr Sawicki said that they could not do anything for eight years because they had a coalitioner... [[Don't lie to me. Why are you lying?]] ...that it was hard for them because they had a coalitioner. Don't put it all on the Civic Platform. This isn't a bad enough party to put everything on the Civic Platform. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And when you talk to the Civic Platform, why they didn't combine the inspection, then it's said that the PSL didn't allow it. It's one thing to push one against the other. Mr PSL was not responsible for agriculture for only 8 years. In fact, if we looked at history - including the ZSL - we'd be in the '50s. I think what's going on in agriculture, what's going on in it, what's the state of agriculture, it's all yours, and I think you know it. [[We'll see you in three years when you're done.]] Mr President, as you have said, as you have already said here, let us not look back, let us move forward, but not just because you are in opposition, so you say that this project is bad. If it's bad, then offer something good, let's do something together for farmers, so that we don't just criticize and say it's bad. As fast as they do, it's bad. If they're slow, it's bad too. Everything's wrong. That's why I think for the sake of farmers it's worth to rise above divisions and do something good. The question, Minister, is about farm advisory centers. I keep thinking, it's very important that you join the farm advisory centers. Why? ♪ 'Cause then ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] This office will be close because it will be in county cities. At this moment he will stop in the voivodship cities. When will it be connected to farm advisory centers so that this office is as close as possible to the farmer in the county cities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u272	I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Zbigniew Babalski to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u273	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all of you who participated in this discussion, regardless of your positions. Thank you for this discussion to the representatives of the clubs, including all the ladies and gentlemen who have asked questions. Some of you are expecting a written reply. That's what's gonna happen, the questions will be written down from the protocol and you'll get written answers. Of course, I'm gonna avoid names so I don't give a reason to straighten things out, maybe I can just do it. In the order of the various clubs, the general thanks were, may be individual, because I think that the Civic Platform also notes, say, the problem that has already been mentioned - the Minister mentioned this, the Minister also - for many, many years, only lacked either courage or agreement between coalitionists to carry out certain things. It seems to me that there are some arrangements between the coalitioners. As we speak of doubts, it means that, in substance, Minister, this assessment is actually close to positive, because if there is no doubt, it is simply negative and the end. I am very pleased for the statements of discussion in committee. She'll probably be here tomorrow. From the mouth of the representatives of individual clubs, there were questions, actually everywhere. Mr. Robert Telus -- I wasn't supposed to say names, but I don't think he's gonna straighten out -- he asked me what happened to the ODRs, because everyone's interested. In my speech, there was a thesis that we were thinking about joining the National Agricultural Support Centre. I didn't set the time or deadline. So it's not going to happen now, it's definitely not going to happen this year. It is possible to predict a deadline - 2018. We need this institution that we're creating... We create one institution. I would like to tell all of you in this Chamber, asking questions and speaking on behalf of the clubs, that this is one institution. The agency for restructuring and modernisation remains, as it was, only takes over, as I mentioned, 12 tasks from the Agricultural Market Agency, and the National Agricultural Support Centre is established. The statement by a member of the Kukiz club is indeed very clear - actually one thing that was very strongly placed, as a matter requiring an answer, concerning the bonds, why it is included. That, too, fell out of the mouth of perhaps three Members. This will be explained in writing for these countries. There was an announcement from the Kukiz Club representative15 that they were prepared for the amendments, as well as from the Minister. I am therefore very happy because I also believe that politics is politics, but there will be time, Minister, to discuss this subject in substance in the committee - perhaps tomorrow, if it is called up - to discuss it. We'll see what the amendments are, because we just need to see them. Here, a law and justice representative mentioned that the club would try to submit amendments after analysis. First of all - this, too, was practically from the mouth of many countries - concerns about the deadline for introduction. By the way, I will also say that it was originally 1 January 2017, but considering that matter is difficult, we did not want a forceful solution, we only extended the date of entry into force of the Act until 1 July. If it is the will of Members to extend this period, we will discuss it in committee and possibly the Ministry will lean on these matters. Mrs Modern Club Representative - I just want to correct immediately that we will definitely bring the institution closer to the farmer, we will not dismiss - she asked a very specific question about seed in her club's speech. This will be the task of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and the county offices, Commissioner, have 313 in Poland. So we're absolutely shortening the way. This is just one example that should convince you that not only do we have good intentions, but we just want it to work like this, because with intentions this hell is paved. Therefore, we do everything to ensure that the farmer who has these concerns, because he has, because every change, especially in the countryside, causes a discussion, whether it will make things worse or not... What we propose, as proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister Jurgiel wrote down in the agricultural programme for the years 2015 and 2019. We recognise, of course, after the discussion in the committee, after the comments you have made here, that this project should fulfil its basic role and the task of facilitating the functioning of rural areas in general. As far as Free and Solidarnia are concerned, thank you also for speaking and for this opinion. I read it as a declaration of possible support for our actions. There were also raised cases concerning inspection, from each club, practically, it rained. I'm not gonna give in to the provocation here, and we're not gonna push each other over who was gonna do it and who wasn't gonna do it. I'm in the 10th Sejm, and there's been a discussion about inspections for at least seven years. I can say from this tribune: at the end is a project that will soon see the light of day, and here, from this tribune, will be presented to the High House. I'm talking about combining the inspection. So this is the next step that shows that we're just doing it, as the Minister said, only 15 months. But you say 15 months. So this time... We also look forward, very hard... Inspection - probably in the near future the bill will be in this Chamber. Driving without holding - I assure you, Minister, we hold the controls in our hands. Prime Minister Beata Szydło is well-managed by the Commonwealth and the affairs which the Law and Justice take. [[Applause]] Now, I'm going to go to specific questions. Of course, I've already answered some. There's a lot of concern coming from you about the jobs. Of course, this is a very difficult situation. I assure you, sir, because it fell out of those mouths, and I am not mentioning a name in any way that it will not be, because here someone said: 1800 jobs in general will die. No, we're talking about 30%, which doesn't mean it's 30%, it could be less. I wasn't talking about the fact that a lot of the employees last year... Because I remind you that there is no rush with the project, we have been working on the project since August last year, so it is not that we come and present immediately without consultation. In August Ub. Yo, we started work. Some of the people in these two agencies have already retired because they have such rights. I would like to remind you that on 1 October this year, the Law restoring the previous retirement age will enter into force, and therefore the number of persons entitled to retire will also increase. It could even be about 200 people, of course entitled to be clear. In this number there will also be people who will naturally be able to exercise their right to leave. Every job change is certainly not easy, but in a situation where we have now - this has not been for 26 years - the lowest unemployment in the Republic, I hope that people with high qualifications and well prepared will not have difficulty finding a place in the labour market. I assure you that even if 600 or 700 people leave, it is not so that people from the Law and Justice will come to this place, it will only be people... I have given you the figures, sir, I do not know if you have been in the Chamber, how many people will go to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Over 300, 322 people and perhaps over 458 move from the Agricultural Market Agency to a national support centre. It's about jobs. Savings. You have savings in the way detailed in the OSR, the impact assessment of the regulation. I encourage you to look there, it is written in individual years, what the savings will be and also what the costs of the IT system will be. That also appeared in many questions. One Member of the Civic Platform also asked if distribution of funds would improve in terms of subsidies. A little, I'm sorry, but I don't think the question is appropriate. Let me remind you that for the first time in the history of payments have been paid advances of this amount, and today we have a situation that when it comes to subsidies, about 68% payments from the entire envelope are made. I think for January 26th, that's a pretty decent result. Of course, we will continue to do this so that this money can be found in farmers as soon as possible. It was raining, too. The contract is continuous work - ends a certain stage of the contract, begins a new stage of the contract, so here's the domestic... Today the Agricultural Property Agency is doing this, in the future it will be performed by the National Agricultural Support Centre. [[But in terms of volatility, Minister.]] A Kukiz Member 15, aha, that's already been done. Bonds, it'll be in writing. Mrs Liberty and Solidarnia, why isn't ARimr in this National Agricultural Support Centre? We could say that we have to end this perspective, because this is the basic paying agency, we have to end this financial perspective that we have right now, and I want to answer so that what we are doing today, what we are proposing, is the first stage, so this is still ahead of us. Some say we're doing it too hard and too fast, but I repeat, it's only been 15 months. The question was about new entities, accreditation, whether it's coming from the vending machine. No, it doesn't. The accreditation is handled by the Minister of Finance, and therefore this process, I know that... We're after a consult, after a conversation, I repeat. We've been working on this project since August last year. This process is going on, the talks are going on, there will certainly be accreditation, whatever the upheavals are, temporarily for one year, just to calmly go through this moment and it didn't happen that on July 1st - or another date that will eventually emerge - will be disturbed. It will not be shaken, we will do everything to ensure that the new national centre functions smoothly, and the good old Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture continues to carry out its tasks correctly. Mrs. Marshal! I think I've exhausted the task and scope that was raised here. Thank you so much again, everyone... [[Minister, but imprecisely. Unprecisely.]] ...the country for the discussion, we'll probably continue it on the agricultural committee. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u274	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft laws contained in prints 1216 and 1217 be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and some other laws (Print No 1194). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Paweł Brzezicki to present the justification for the project. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you a draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and some other laws. The need to develop a project and to revise the laws is mainly due to the need to implement and implement in Polish law certain provisions on maritime spatial planning, ship recycling, monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and sampling and reporting on sulphur content of marine fuels. This Act, in addition to the Act of 16 March 1995 on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, amends the Act of 21 March 1991 on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration, the Law of 20 December 1996 on Ports and Seaports, the Act of 27 April 2001 on Environmental Protection, the Law of 18 August 2011 on Maritime Safety, the Law of 14 December 2012 on Waste, the Law of 24 July 2015 amending the Law on Maritime Safety and certain other laws and the Act of 5 August 2015 on Maritime Labour. Proposed amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships concerning the so-called THETIS-EU will ensure the proper functioning of inspections on the basis of an IT system developed by the European Commission which allows the collection of data on ship inspections in the framework of the enforcement of the sulphur directive. In addition, the issue of sampling marine fuel from the fuel circulation system was clarified, sanctions for infringements of the sulphur directive were clarified, and the authority to which ship owners of Polish vessels would be able to apply for authorisation to test emission reduction methods for tests outside Polish maritime areas only in international waters was identified. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and the Maritime Administration take into account the competence of the Minister responsible for. energy in the process of issuing by the competent territorial directors of maritime offices permits the laying and maintenance of cables or pipelines in marine waters and territorial waters. In addition, as recommended by the European Commission, a definition of planning and spatial planning of marine areas of internal waters, the territorial sea and the exclusive economic zone has been added. The proposed amendments to the Law on Ports and Seaports by adding the obligation to provide fire protection in ports are of a sequencing nature. The proposed amendments to the Maritime Safety Act concern the regulation of the period of validity of qualification examinations and certificates of completion of training for seafarers and fishermen, the definition of the publication of the list of examiners of the Central Maritime Examination Commission, the indication of the duties of the shipper and the Container Terminal obligations resulting from Resolution MSC.380 (94) and the provisions of the SOLAS Convention, and the determination of penalties for non-compliance with the provisions on the obligation to weigh containers. An important amendment to the Maritime Safety Act is the implementation of new provisions forced by amendments to the SOLAS Convention concerning the need to verify the gross weight of containers loaded onto ships. These provisions aim to eliminate the underweight of containers in transport documents in relation to the actual weight of containers, resulting in serious maritime disasters. The proposed amendments to the Waste Act concern the regulation of ship recycling activities, including the obligation to obtain authorisation under an administrative decision. The draft law contains proposals for amendments to the Waste Act agreed with the Minister for the Environment concerning the regulation of ship recycling activities, including the obligation to obtain authorisation from the Marshal of the Voivodship under the administrative decision. As the tasks resulting from this regulation will be tasks of government administration commissioned to local government, the competent administrative authority in this area will be the Marshal of the voivodship. The proposed amendments to the Maritime Labour Act relate to placement and reimbursement of repatriation costs. The amendments result from the need to clarify at the level of the Act the characteristics of the directors of maritime offices as regards their new competences under the Maritime Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u276	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u277	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I will present our opinion on the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and some other laws. As the Minister has already said, the purpose of the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and certain other laws is to implement certain provisions of the European Union's normative acts and international organisations facilitating the activities of maritime sector entities in the field of maritime spatial planning, ship recycling, monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and sampling and reporting on sulphur content of marine fuels. The project contains a number of references to the international legal acts mentioned in the explanatory memorandum due to the need to apply uniform legal and organisational arrangements to the entire system of supervision of the activities of maritime administrations. The bill, which the Minister also stressed, contains proposals for amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration, the Act on Ports and Seaports, the Act on Environmental Protection, the Law on Maritime Safety, the Law on Waste, the Act on the Amendment of the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Labour. The proposed solutions include the introduction of the IT system THETIS-EU, which will allow the collection of data on ship inspections in the framework of the enforcement of the sulphur directive and the Directive on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues, the introduction of a definition of planning and spatial planning of marine areas of internal waters, the territorial sea and the exclusive economic zone, the introduction of the period of validity of qualification examinations and certificates for the completion of the school for seafarers and fishermen and the publication of the list of examiners of the Central Maritime Examination Commission, the implementation of new provisions forced by amendments to the International Convention on the Safety of Life at Sea, the SOLAS Convention concerning the need to verify the gross mass of containers loaded onto ships - these provisions are designed to eliminate the under-weight of containers in transport documents in relation to the actual mass of containers, which has consequently caused dangerous marine disasters - and the regulation of ship recycling activities. Implementation into Polish law of current EU requirements will establish better conditions for the current control and reporting procedures related to ship inspections and will result in better supervision of compliance with legal requirements for the protection of the marine environment. The provisions of the draft law will also ensure that administrative authorities effectively carry out the tasks of supervising maritime operators. The proposed rules will not result in financial burdens on the state budget. Financial penalties for non-compliance with ship recycling requirements, the use on ships of non-compliant sulphur fuels and the non-compliance with monitoring and reporting obligations for CO2 emissions from maritime transport may generate additional revenue for the State budget. Similarly, additional revenue may be affected by checks on shippers carried out to approve the use of method two for verifying the gross weight of containers loaded onto ships to the State budget. Thanks to the proposed legislation, shipbuilding operators will be able to undertake a full and normal activity in the field of safe and environmentally sound ship recycling. This will certainly contribute to the development of this sector in our country by ensuring the conditions for ship recycling on competitive terms, while ensuring appropriate regulation. We welcome the draft presented and request that it be forwarded to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club, will present his position on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour of presenting the position of the club to the draft law on the prevention of pollution by ships and certain other laws. The bill aims to implement European Union law, to transpose this right into Polish legislation, to comply with EU environmental standards by Poland and thus to control, in our case, to comply with them at sea over which our country lies in the Baltic Sea. The title of the bill does not fully reflect an extremely wide range of changes concerning not only marine pollution but also regulations on air pollution by carbon dioxide, port spatial planning, port fire safety, maritime safety or ship recycling. The Civic Platform Club supports the proposed amendments to the laws. We are merely surprised that Minister Grybarczyk, together with other members of the European Parliament's Law and Justice, has voted against the sulphur directive, which, according to the Minister's statements at that time, was to be detrimental to the owners of the Baltic Sea area. It was intended to lead to a 70% increase in shipping fuel prices and to a total cost-effectiveness of short sea shipping. The Minister stressed at the time that there was a real threat of the collapse of national shipowners due to its entry into force. Meanwhile, the proposed bill concludes implementation of the Polish sulphur directive, together with methods of sampling fuel and control of sulphur emissions by ships. We will be happy to hear, in the course of further parliamentary work, the Minister's opinion on the costs arising from this on the part of Polish shipowners in the Baltic Sea, the impact of this on their profitability and on their revenue for the state budget. The Civic Platform Club believes that the implementation of this directive will bring us closer to a situation where air quality standards will be the same for the whole European Union. We believe that the current project takes into account both the key environmental issues and the importance of maintaining the competitiveness of the Polish fleet in the Baltic Sea basin in a balanced way. The draft law also regulates ship recycling rules, indicating the directors of maritime offices as bodies that carry out State control tasks. Currently, the European Commission has entered only one Polish company, Szczecin's Almex, as fulfilling ship recycling requirements. The law will allow more Polish companies to obtain such a certificate. It should be noted here that both Polish and EU shipowners have units registered primarily under foreign flags outside the European Union. They cannot therefore be scrapped within the Union. The number of units under the European Union's flags is limited and only small units are mentioned here, so these rules may apply to Poland to a very limited extent. However, we note that according to the following article. 102a. 4 additional obligations are imposed on the Marshals of voivodships to approve the ship recycling plan, to issue and withdraw authorisations for ship recycling and to establish and update the list of ship recycling facilities. We believe that the implementation of these new tasks assigned to local governments will result in an increase in their expenditure related to the employment of additional people who will carry out these tasks. We would like to see the position of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government in this respect. We would like further work on a precise response from the applicant, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping, whether it will be the tasks of the local government itself, or the tasks of government administration carried out by local governments in the form of grants from the state budget. There is no clear reference in the draft law to the possible financial consequences arising from other amended laws. In addition to the said Waste Act, it is e.g. The Maritime Safety Act, which gives the law a lot of space. Unfortunately, there is not a single word about the requirement for a given port to have a floating crane at its disposal. Any object that gets fired or crashed within or near the water track can block the port because there's no chance of lifting it. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the need for EU law to be transposed into Polish legislation in such an important area as the prevention of pollution and, consequently, the protection of the environment and the consistent enforcement of European standards, e.g. in maritime safety, in ship recycling, the level of carbon dioxide they emit or the sulphur content of their fuel. However, I hope to get an answer to the issues I have raised from the Minister in the course of further parliamentary work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u280	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, now from Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u281	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a statement on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 on the government draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and some other laws. We are all aware that this Act aims to implement some international documents into Polish law. According to any study on the Baltic Sea, pollution generated by ships contributes to the formation of excessive blooms and large amounts of sinews exceeding the balance of the Baltic Sea, which in turn adversely affects the purity of water, the amount of bacteria, the mortality of marine fauna and flora, causes the formation of surface goats, exhausts oxygen resources in water. The Baltic Sea is particularly sensitive to pollution. It is a relatively shallow water, a 56 m medium shelf sea, with a limited exchange of waters with the neighbouring North Sea, resulting in it being a reservoir with relatively low absorption capacity. Water circulation takes place only through the narrow Danish straits, so that the total exchange of salty Baltic waters into well-oxidised, high salty ocean waters lasts for 25 and 35 years. This means that all foreign substances brought into the Baltic Sea remain in it for many years, creating a huge threat to ecology and the entire water. That is why it is our point of view to ensure the best standard for the cleanliness of the waters of the Baltic Sea. The implementation of documents such as the update of the International Convention on the Safety of Life at Sea, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning, on ship recycling, monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport introduces further Union tightenings. However, if not for them, we should still implement additional environmental regulations, including the Baltic, because it is in our vital Polish interest. The Act extends the list of definitions of the fuel system on board the ship. In 2000, the transport of oil in the Baltic waters amounted to over 80 million tons and in 2015 the transport mass of oil exceeded 130 million tons. There are dozens of fuel terminals operating on the Baltic Sea and their number is growing. These data indicate that, as oil transport increases by sea, the risks of the Baltic Sea ecosystem resulting from pollution of this reservoir of petroleum-derived compounds will also increase. We therefore consider it right that the proposed law introduces a definition of the fuel circulation system and the THETIS-EU system. THETIS-EU is intended to be a tool to improve the performance of inspection duties, including the selection of ships for inspection and the electronic reporting of its results. The position of the national administrator THETIS-EU and its tasks will be included in the Polish legislation. Another problem that is addressed by this Act is ship recycling. This is a growing challenge for shipowners from all over the world. Entrepreneurs, of course, want scrapping to be environmentally efficient. This problem has intensified in recent years due, inter alia, to the need to rejuvenate the fleet and adapt it to increasingly stricter requirements. It should be in the interest of the Polish state that recycling takes place ecologically, so that our ports, Szczecin, Gdynia, Tricity, and also, I do not know, Łeba, Ustka, are still clean. The Kukiz Posel Club15, recognising that the Baltic Sea is our national good, supports all actions that will lead to its protection. We therefore support this bill and we will be very much involved in its process in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u282	Thank you very much. I would ask Mrs Ewa Lieder to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u283	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The project provides for changes in several laws, among which among others. Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and Law on the Protection of the Environment. The amendments concern provisions governing the acquisition by operators of ship recycling plants of integrated licences, waste generation permits and waste treatment authorisations. It is very important for environmental reasons to implement the provisions of the European Union 2015/253 and of the European Union 2015/757 concerning the MARPOL Convention. The proposed amendments ensure the proper functioning of ship inspections based on the THETIS-EU system developed by the European Commission. They will allow better control of emissions of sulphur oxides by ships calling at Polish ports. However, through the implementation of EU 2015/757 provisions in Article. 13k, Art. 13l, Art. 34a and Article 34a 36a paragraph. 6 The laws have been amended to control carbon dioxide emissions. The Act introduces control tasks resulting also from EU Regulation 1257/2013 on ship recycling. Art. 36aa paragraph. 4 lays down sanctions for shipowners who operate or recycle ships not in accordance with the Regulation, in particular when they direct the ship to a facility which is not on the European list. This applies to certain establishments in South Asia, for example. Such sites do not ensure adequate monitoring of health and safety requirements. We must also point out that there is a very large number of fatalities and cases of non-compliance with environmental legislation. From the point of view of ship safety, it is very important to seal the provisions on the gross weight verification of containers due to the increased accuracy of the calculation of their stability. This is ensured by the article. 101a-101c, which say that the container exported from the Polish port prior to loading on the ship should have information about the verified gross weight of the container in accordance with SOLAS Regulation 2 of Chapter VI. For seafarers, Article is important. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1, which imposes an obligation on the Director of the Maritime Office to organise the repatriation of a seafarer where the ship owner of Polish nationality has not taken action to repatriate a seafarer or has not covered the costs of repatriation. It shall also specify the conditions for the operation relevant to persons employed at sea. We support all the changes resulting from the Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1, referring to the qualifications of crews of sea and fishing vessels, adapting Polish rules to international regulations, as well as amendments to the statutory authorisation contained in Article. 68. In view of the large number of Polish seafarers employed on foreign ships, certificates and diplomas issued in the country must comply strictly with all requirements arising from the provisions of the international convention. But there's one point here. This is typical of the ruling party's dislike for socio-professional organisations. It has resulted in the deletion in Article. 107. 7 records of pilots' socio-professional organisation, selection of pilot candidates in agreement with the above mentioned organisation. It's an incredibly important role for the safety of every ship. We find it really unreasonable to abolish the acceptance of candidates by the pilots' socio-professional organisations. It is necessary to amend this provision. In conclusion, the Members' Club Modern supports the direction of these changes, but we hope to improve the article. 107. 7 that may be able to change in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u284	Thank you very much, Member. And on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u285	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are debating today the bill that the Minister has presented along with the justification. This is the first reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and some other laws. You will allow the marshal that I will no longer discuss this in parts, exactly or repeat it after my previous speakers, who have already outlined what needs to be done, as regards certain segments, parts of this draft and presented document. As the Polish People's Party, we agree with this, we consider the proposed measures to be right, presented and implemented in good faith, aimed at ordering issues relating to the operation of the shipper, with the functioning of the port, with a view to protecting the environment, broadly speaking, and giving it a lot of space and, above all, the protection of marine waters. We have here described and presented both issues relating to the work of seafarers and to the protection and training, as well as to the control, reporting and sampling of specific trials, as well as the presentation of results on pollution from sulphur compounds and carbon dioxide. We have here discussed and indicated also the sanctions that will be applied to maintain and ensure the implementation of these standards and rules, which are set out in this document. So that we will opt and vote in favour of directing this project to further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u286	Thank you very much, sir. And on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and some other laws. The proposed law is based on the need to implement the Commission of the European Union, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, as well as the SOLAS Convention into Polish law. The possibility for shipowners to test emission reduction methods has also been extended to cases where tests would only be carried out in international waters and penalties have been harmonised in line with the guidelines of the European Maritime Safety Agency. Ship recycling issues have also been addressed. Sanctions have been established for shipowners who operate or recycle ships which do not comply with the rules. The amended Act sets the period of validity of the authorisation for the ship recycling facility and indicates the grounds for refusal of authorisation for the ship recycling facility. The proposed legislation makes it clear that the qualifications of crew members of marine vessels and fishing vessels must comply with the requirements set out, inter alia. in the International Convention on Requirements for Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Fishing Vessel Crews. The Act contains numerous essential transitional provisions. Poland should comply with EU law. Work on this bill is essential. The Free and Solidarni Circle asks for further processing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u288	Thank you very much, Member. There are two Members on the list of persons who have joined the task of questioning. Anyone else want to sign up? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform Club. One and a half minutes. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u289	Dear Marshal! Minister! In relation to my speech, I would also like to ask the following questions: What are the costs arising from the implementation of EU law on the prevention of pollution by Polish shipowners in the Baltic Sea, and how will this affect their profitability and the proposed revenue to the budget for issuing certificates and penalties for non-compliance? Another question. What costs arise from the additional obligations imposed on the regional government to approve the ship recycling plan, issue and revoke the ship recycling permit and to establish and update the list of ship recycling facilities? Are these supposed to be the new tasks of the local government or government tasks commissioned in the form of budget grants? Finally, doesn't the Ministry think that when changing the Port Security Act, it would be worth introducing a statutory requirement for a port to have a floating crane at its disposal? In Trójmieście there is a floating crane Maja, but there is no such crane in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. Any object that will undergo a fire or collision within the port of Szczecin or in the vicinity of the watercourse can block the port because it is not likely to be lifted quickly. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u290	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the new rules, the weight of the container by the shipper should be measured by one of two methods. The first method indicates that the entire closed container is measured after loading, the second method - by weighing the individual cargo, including the weight of pallets, packaging and adding the tare weight of the container. And that's why there's a specific question, which is, who's gonna decide who's gonna choose one of these two methods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u292	Thank you very much, sir. Please answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Paweł Brzezicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I should answer Mr Khrushch's question first. Well, the choice of method will be decided by the shipper, so that it is entirely his responsibility and I think it will simply result from commercial circumstances. To answer Mr Obricki's questions, Mr Obricki, I would like to say that this law, which I am trying to present to you today, is the result, not the cause - is the result. so-called. sulphur directive and all these elements in the law, which appeared two years ago, concerning the protection of the environment in the Baltic Sea. She's just a bill ordering in the sense of the control system. We have to make this bill, we're eating this frog, and I'm gonna tell you how that frog is cooked right now. To this day, it is true that Polish shipowners - or the majority of non-Polish shipowners, who are calling on the Baltic Sea - have not incurred any specific costs due to the implementation of this directive. Of course, this does not mean that they have not adapted to it at all. In the last few years, oil prices have fallen significantly over the last two years and, consequently, a significant fall in oil prices and ship owners instead of investing a few million euros, and the gas wash on board costs approximately between 6 and 12 million euros, depending on the size of the unit and the size of the machine installed on the ship, buys light fuel, so-called. sweet, which does not contain sulphur compounds, it is, of course, more expensive, but little more expensive. On the other hand, we will have real costs when the price of oil goes up and prices of heavy products and light products will be spread. That's when we'll pay. As of today, the price is $53/54 per barrel, it may be maintained as market information is such that new pipelines will be opened or oil pipelines will be stopped in the United States, as well as some restrictions that have occurred so far, for example. Texas. The United States will become a large exporter and perhaps this price will remain at this level. It may not be necessary to invest, but there is a danger that ship owners will pay for new equipment on ships. As far as recycling is concerned, there will be no additional resources for marshals to enable them to make an administrative decision because these changes we propose are already in the general waste marketing regulations already being dealt with by the marshals, because recycling will be waste. In addition, we do not think that there are really any great costs due to the fact that today there are actually two shipyards in Poland, one administratively capable and the other - substantively, but in a moment can also be administratively able to undertake recycling. Therefore, these consents may be several in a year, maybe not. This procedure for granting this consent is not particularly complicated. [[A crane.]] A crane is a commercial activity. There is one crane in Poland, the Maja crane. There was a Gucio crane that was in Szczecin. The one who is now in Poland is in Gdynia. So we have this one crane. This crane is owned, operated by the Polish Ship Rescue Company, commercial law company, on commercial terms, is commercially available for rent in Szczecin, Świnoujście, Gdańsk, Gdynia. I think I have answered all your Members' questions. I don't want to answer the question, maybe not the question, but the question you raised from the Modern Group on pilots, because I think we'll be able to explain this at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u294	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and certain other laws, contained in print No 1194, to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 21 February. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government proposal for a law on investments in the construction of a water road connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk (print No 1182). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Paweł Brzezicki to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law, which I am pleased to present to you today, aims to improve the preparation and implementation of an investment project for the construction of a waterway linking the Vistula Bay with the Gulf of Gdansk implemented by the state budget under the multiannual programme established by Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 57/2016 of 24 May 2016. The investment is carried out because of the overriding public interest of ensuring the security and defence of the State. The implementation of the investment will be ensured, among others. free access to the ports of the Vistula Bay and an extension of the range of activities of the armed forces of the Republic in terms of patrol units, mine-mining, crisis response and border guards, which is important for the defence of the State. The creation of a waterway under the entire Polish jurisdiction will also guarantee the free shipping of ships of all flags to the port of Elbląg and other ports of the Vistula River. According to the agreed financial and in-kind timetable, the implementation of investments over the entire period of implementation of the programme is guaranteed by the State budget of PLN 880 million. The Act introduces procedural facilitations by simplifying the procedure for obtaining the necessary permits, including shortening the deadlines resulting inter alia. under the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, while ensuring the necessary cooperation of the Director responsible for the remaining area of investment implementation. This is about cooperation between Olsztyn and Gdansk. In view of the urgent need to complete the preparatory work on the implementation of the investments which have been ongoing since 2008, I kindly ask the High House to adopt this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u296	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u297	Thank you, Marshal. I have the pleasure on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present our opinion on the draft law on investments in the construction of the water road connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdansk, print no 1182. The aim of the bill is to improve the process of construction of the water road connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk implemented by the state budget under the multiannual programme established by Council of Ministers Resolution No 57/2016 of 24 May 2016. The construction of a waterway in the area of Polish marine waters under Polish jurisdiction is in line with the Polish state rhyme. This is the only way to ensure the free and undisturbed shipping of all flags to the port of Elbląg and other ports of the Vistula Bay. This investment is therefore of a priority nature and is implemented, as the applicant has put it, primarily because of the overriding public interest of ensuring the security and defence of the State. The water road connecting Vistula and Baltic Sea will first of all open new possibilities for evacuation, logistics, humanitarian aid and other elements of crisis management in the event of emergency situations. In addition, it will enable the development of the port of Elbląg and thus the maritime industry, tourism and logistics services. It will therefore contribute to economic development and to the decline in unemployment in the region. Unfortunately, experience has shown that the construction of roads and motorways and railway routes, in this case also of the sea road, requires the adoption of a special regulation, so-called. specifications to ensure that the investment can be implemented efficiently and in accordance with the timetable. The draft law therefore introduces procedural facilitations by simplifying the procedure for obtaining the necessary permits, including shortening the time limits resulting, inter alia. under the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, Construction Law and Water Law. The Special Law also introduces sanctions that will be imposed on administrative authorities for failing to comply with the deadlines set out in the Act. It should be stressed that the construction of the waterway will be carried out in accordance with Polish and international environmental regulations. Any environmental impact issues, including impacts on Natura 2000 sites, will be resolved in the context of the environmental impact assessment in the framework of the decision on environmental conditions for investment in accordance with the current provisions of the Environmental Information and Protection Act, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. The investment location option will also be selected during the environmental impact procedure. The draft law does not contain a decision in this respect. The provisions of the proposed law will be implemented primarily by the Director of the Maritime Office in Gdynia, who, as an investor, will carry out the investment, the Pomeranian Voivodeship, which, in agreement with the Warmia-Mazury Voivodeship, will issue a decision on the permission to implement the investment, and the Regional Environmental Director in Olsztyn, who, after consulting the Regional Environment Director in Gdańsk, will issue a decision on the environmental conditions for the investment. The procedure for issuing the investment decision and the content of the investment decision will be regulated in detail in the project. The decision will at the same time entitle the Director of the Gdynia Maritime Office to carry out works and will constitute a legal title to the ground. In addition, the issues of ground expropriation and the associated compensation scheme and rules have been specifically regulated. The adoption of the bill will allow the completion of administrative procedures in 2017 and the start of investment in early 2018. We therefore welcome the draft presented and request that it be forwarded to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u298	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on investments in the water road connecting Zalew Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdansk, print No 1182. High Seym! The project discussed today concerns one of the most controversial investments in Poland, probably the longest analysed and discussed. Despite the passage of time, emotions do not fade, supporters and opponents of the construction of the new watercourse exchange views, also within the Civic Platform club. The key threads of the dispute are the economic sense of this undertaking and the effects of profound interference with nature. Convincing the economic sense of the excavation by measure and the resulting support for this investment is primarily linked to the hope, the hope present among the people of Elbląg and the surroundings. This is a hope for positive economic effects linked to the expected development of the local port and the recovery of tourism in the region. On the other hand, the question remains open as to whether their scale will be appropriate to all the costs associated with the construction and maintenance of the new waterway. Will the port in Elbląg, which does not have a chance to compete with ports located in Gdańsk and Gdynia, gain a permanent position as an auxiliary port for seaports, including Russian ports? From a different perspective, the inhabitants of the Sea Krynica look at the problem, who fear that the construction of the canal will cause deterioration of recreational beaches located on the Gulf of Gdansk, and the town itself will be on the island, which will cause a number of obvious perturbations. It is therefore understandable to expect appropriate compensation. There is no doubt that it is worth listening to environmentalists who are careful to avoid massive interference in nature, as this can cause major destruction of priority species and protected habitats. I would like to remind you that this investment is to be carried out in areas that are particularly valuable and naturally sensitive and protected by the Natura 2000 programme. This is not the only threat. Experts also pay attention, among others. a permanent imbalance of the dynamic shore of the Vistula mine, which will require lasting and costly countermeasures. When discussing the main points of the discussion, it is also necessary to recall questions about alternative possibilities of using powerful budget resources for the construction of the excavation by the Vistula Land, e.g. for regulating shipping on Vistula and Scarpava. High Seym! Bones were cast, the government decided to build the excavation, taking responsibility for all its consequences. The reasons used were the arguments of the most severe caliber, i.e. state security and the right state. At the meeting at the Maritime Krynica, Minister Grybarczyk even spoke about NATO's secret scenarios. Ultimately, as objectives, the main objectives of the excavation by measure were to provide access to the Vistula flood waters of small Navy ships, to enable the performance of tasks with the use of means by special units stationed in Gdańsk and Gdynia, and to increase the possibility of the transfer and supply of troops by sea. This justification caused another wave of questions in the Pomeranian media, among others. why Navy motorboats, whose immersion is 1.3 m, must not affect the flood by linking it to the Vistula river Szkarpawa, whose depth exceeds 1.8 m. This question seems to be even more relevant to the commandos who use the pontoons. I feel that the use of geopolitical arguments is not merely due to the government's substantive difficulty in finding wider than local benefits of explaining itself from powerful expenditure and profound interference with nature. I think that it serves primarily to justify the introduction to the legal market of the specialty under consideration today, an act that goes across the standard legislative solutions, dedicated to only one specific, name given undertaking. The project discussed today is a shortcut, which in the context of the complexity of the matter related to the implementation of the excavation seems quite risky. I am thinking, first of all, of replacing the opinion procedure with the need to obtain the arrangements, permits, opinions, conditions, approvals or positions required by separate provisions. This strongly limits the impact of the external environment on decision-making, including the scope of public consultation. There seems to be a legitimate concern that this may cause difficult and even impossible protests to carry out the planned project. I think his kind doesn't justify such a drastic approach unless it's not about catching a bunny, but about chasing it, creating false hopes for the people of Elbląg and wasting public money. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, despite many doubts, I propose that the project be directed to further work in the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, hoping that controversial issues will be clarified and that together we will find a formula that will enable all interested environments to participate in the decision-making process. Thank you for your attention and I apologize for the extension of your speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u300	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that I have the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Poselski Club Kukiz.15 about the investment in the construction of the water road connecting the Vistula Bay with the Gulf of Gdansk. I am a Member of the Elbląg Voivodeship, so I am all the more pleased that the work of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping in the field of the construction of the shipping channel on the scale is taking on real shapes. However, the shipping channel does not only concern Elbląg and the region, it is an opportunity for the whole country both economically and defenceally. This large investment, which will allow the direct connection of the Elbląg sea port with the Gulf of Gdansk, is long awaited by the inhabitants of the whole region. It is an opportunity for new jobs, an increase in the wealth of society and an increase in the role of Elbląg port, participation in Polish maritime transports. Unfortunately, I often find myself misunderstood by the potential of this investment. It is worth noting how many areas it will affect. I would like to remind you that Elbląg has been a port town for centuries, but also a city with a shipbuilding industry. This is proved by the history of the Gdańsk shipyard, which was once a subsidiary of the Elbląg shipyard. Returning to the traditional maritime economy will provide a strong basis for economic growth. I remind you that Szczecin is not lying directly by the sea and has a very rich history and tradition of port and shipbuilding. This proposed waterway, along with the deepening of the shipping track on the approach to the Elbląg river and, further, the Elbląg sea port, will allow for year-round freight shipping, which will be the basis for the economic development of the city and region in the coming years. The town of Elbląg has undeveloped areas on the Elbląg River, within the seaport, which are waiting for investors. This investment is an opportunity for several thousand new jobs in Elbląg as well as in the region. This is an opportunity for many young people today who choose to emigrate for their wages due to the terrible situation on the local labour market. The region has long been at the gray end of the unemployment statements in Poland. The possibilities that these people will have to dig are enormous. Today, due to the border crossing the Vistula River with the Russian Federation, the movement of ships is limited to units of two flags: Polish and Russian. The excavation will allow the shipping of third-flag units, i.e. all marine units. The discussion on the excavation is often overlooked by the lack of availability of Vistula flood for smaller naval units. The lack of availability of this area for Polish units is an absolute misunderstanding, and this can only change the realization of this investment. Let us also not forget that in the immediate vicinity of this investment there is an external border of the European Union, which requires special protection. The increase in the tourist potential of the Vistula Land, Elbląg Highland, and even the Iławski Lake District is a very important factor. Direct access to the Elbląg Canal route will help to stimulate tourism development throughout the region. Ready, revitalized yacht marinas on Vistula Bay await tourists who will finally gain direct access to this extraordinary water basin. In the case of Elbląg, but also Suchacz, Kadin, Tolkkicka, Frombork and other villages located along the Vistula canal, it will provide opportunities to diversify attractions for visitors of Vistula Mierija. The bill discussed here today will be helpful in preparing for the work and implementation of the shipping channel in Vistula Mierza. I have no doubt, like the Kukiz Club15, that this investment is justified and from this point of view I call on the government to carry out the procedures necessary to carry out this task as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u302	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Piotr Misja, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club regarding the draft law on investments in the construction of the water road connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk. The designer points out in this project the main reason for this investment, which is to ensure public security in the region. Does this mean, ladies and gentlemen, that this security is not ensured at the moment? Paradoxically, if the intention of the projector is to create the possibility of cutting off Russia's will for political reasons through the blockade of shipping from the Bay of Vistula to the full sea through Piławska Strait, then the port in Elbląg after reconstruction will be doomed to cooperate with the Russians. For this port, only trade and tourism with the Kaliningrad region creates de facto the possibility of creating a source of income. Is it not so that for Polish public money we revitalize the economically neglected region of Russia, which is a Russian enclave in the heart of the European Union? The designer indicates the overarching objective of the region's economic development. What ships will be able to enter the port of Elbląg at what dive? The approach parameters do not allow sea-going vessels to be brought into port. That's never gonna be possible. Therefore, the construction of the channel is an example of a great romantic myth, but also economic dylanism. It is well known that investment costs are one thing and the problem of keeping the depth of future tracks is the other. This investment is literally throwing money into the mud at the bottom of the Vistula flood. In addition, we should add a permanent breach of the flood ecosystem, which the legislator hopes nature will manage somehow. However, this will be an extremely expensive process. The environmental impact forecast provides for up to ten-fold compensation for lost habitats of fauna and flora in the Natura 2000 area. They are intended to be created from the ferocity obtained from the excavation, among others. two islands for birds and new shore polders. At the end of the formal record. The designer shall state that the interests of third parties will not be affected, at the same time introducing the protection of the interests of individuals into the specialty. Please provide a list of persons or companies who will receive these fair compensations as a result of the implementation of this project. I would also like to ask your opinion on the absence of an effective appeal procedure before a court or other independent body as indicated by the European Commission - Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Directive 2011/92/EU. This has already been stated in relation to eight specifics, and the relevant entries are not introduced into subsequent projects presented by the government - the legal opinion attached to the justification of the project. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned that this investment will repeat the economic success of buying the refinery in Możejki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u304	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on investments in the construction of the water road connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk with print No. 1182 sets out the rules for preparing, implementing and financing the construction of the water road connecting Zalev Wiślany with the Gulf of Gdańsk. This new road Water is intended to enable the free and year-round shipping of all flags to the port of Elbląg and other ports of the Vistula River. The project is intended to enable the opening of the port in Elbląg for large sea-going vessels, thus the creation of the fifth large Polish port in the Baltic Sea. We read in the assumptions and the explanatory memorandum that this will stimulate faster economic development. We're pretty sure that's gonna happen. The implementation of the investment is also intended to allow Navy and Border Guard units free access from the sea to the ports of the Vistula Bay. The adoption of this law is intended to enable the commencement of construction works in 2018 and the completion of this project in 2022. This will be financed by the state budget. There is also a cost, pre-defined at the level of about PLN 880 million. The bill regulates and describes the solution, the mechanisms by which environmental and environmental decisions are to be obtained, because we are dealing with the Natura 2000 area. The provisions of the draft law also specify the way in which decisions are taken regarding the implementation of the investment, the way in which they are obtained, redemption, remuneration, compensation for the land acquired and the way in which compensation and compensation are paid. We believe that the project is very important, but we also see how difficult it will be not only organisational but also financial. However, as a club, we are in favour of directing the bill to further work, discussing certain issues, preparing records and solutions so that they are the best, most appropriate in terms of organisation and law, formulated and presented to the High House and enforceable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u306	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Members' Circle of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After all that has been said here, there's actually not much to add. With the honour of speaking on behalf of the European Union of Democrats, I have two points to draw attention to. First of all, in all this justification, the applicants are unnecessarily making some absurd argument about defence, about some strategic security considerations. In fact, I'd love to hear what it's all about, because it's very foggy. And I don't think it's necessary. By weighing these two rations, opponents and supporters, which here, in this Chamber were visible, and hoping that this was one of the few laws, in any case, as regards the last period where we can discuss apolitically - I am talking about the apoliticality of this issue - we can leave the voice to experts and make a choice, we have made a choice in favour of supporting this idea, knowing all these limitations. The main argument for this is economic considerations. I don't see it on purpose... I'm telling you, everything else is a stretch. Besides, the government has some bizarre habit of making up for this ideology of security, business, state reasons or defence considerations for every law, everywhere. On the other hand, this economic case has been made quite clear. Costs usually go up. That's over 800 million, as you say. I think it's going to be about a billion. This is of course an important decision and I would not be in such a hurry to do so, but I would try to build it with expertise, make a certain analysis, do not act quickly, so that it does not end as with the White Sea Channel, which, as you know... Of course, I don't compare the scale of the victims, the suffering, because I would insult the victims of that murderous construction, and of course it's hard to say. Yes, about the Elbląg Canal, because there will be no casualties there, at best someone will drown or get drunk by the way, but the point is that an investment is completely unnecessary. Today we see that it was unnecessary. For this investment not to be unnecessary, economic analysis is needed. I would also warn against naive optimism and enthusiasm, it needs to be examined in a factual, calm way. Now I'm speaking as a biologist as a naturalist. There are two reservations: Fisherman's Angles and a beech reservation, it's 300-year-old beeches, and the bee is basically 400 years old. There's going to be an exchange of these trees, and I don't think he's in any danger. The Fisherman's Corner Reserve, or Cormorants' and Birds' Reserve, is at risk. I think the beech reserve is the one in the Vistula Land. Yeah, they're cherry beeches. So the Fisherman's Corner Reserve is a cormorant reserve. The cormoran is today a bird that grows, develops, threatens fishing. I don't see the point - unless there are other species - to protect the cormorant specifically. If you're a minister of the environment who doesn't have one because he has more important things to do, I understand, than dealing with birds or reserves... If you're shooting at the bison, it's much better to shoot yourself at the cormorants because the harm of these cormorants... In fact, I don't understand why such a massive bird is still on the list of protected species. It's not in danger. But there's something else at stake. The whole ecological balance is at stake. It's called. Gradation of species. For example, in the case of this flooding there may be gradation of sinic, also the gradation of the bull's grandmother in the Baltic Sea, and then this species destroys the others, causes devastation, it is difficult to regulate. Someone here said that the government naively thinks nature can handle itself. It's not so naive, because nature usually manages itself. All these species have lived in the world for millions of years, there was no human being and they were doing great. Now a man is bothering them. And nature could, of course, manage, but if man consciously destroys the environments of certain species, they are helpless. Therefore, this environmental aspect seems very important to me here. In this connection, I would ask very much, although asking for anything PiS is rather a waste of time and a manifestation of naivety, but I would ask the honourable minister to give us some more time here and that specialists in concentration, bio-assessment, ecology, biological balance in nature, interrelationships of species, that is, from everything that is generally called ecosystem, speak out, or lose, the devastation of species will not be greater than the profits we will achieve through this channel. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Generally, the Circle of the European Union of Democrats is in favour of sending the project for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u308	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present the position of the circle on the government's draft law on investment in the construction of the water road connecting the Vistula Bay with Gdansk Bay. The bill was designed to make the investment possible. The construction of a waterway connecting the Vistula Bay with the Gulf of Gdansk implemented by the state budget. The construction of the shipping channel is justified to the highest extent by a number of reasons of very significant, even strategic importance, none of the arguments raised by the opponents of this investment, including pseudo-ecological arguments, can withstand substantive criticism. This investment is dictated by the need to ensure public security in the region, and this one fact should already have decisive power. Hurrying to implement the investment is justified by the restrictions on access to the ports of the Vistula Lagoon, which they currently have. Navy and Border Guard units. It is the Navy Command that emphasizes that thanks to the new waterway, it will also be possible to perform operational tasks, including anti-terrorist tasks, by special units stationed in garrisons in Gdansk and Gdynia, such as Formoza and GROM. The creation of a new waterway will also enable the expansion of the range of activities of small ships of the Navy of the Republic of Poland. The resulting investment will improve safety in the context of the use of SAR marine rescue units, which are currently not functioning properly. It cannot be that Poland depends on an alien power on its own activities. It cannot be that it is the authorities of the Russian Federation that decide whether or not Polish individuals can sail. The proposed special act introduces procedural facilitations and regulates the powers of individual decision-making bodies. This special act will allow for more efficient public spending. The entry into force of the Act at the beginning of 2017 will allow the commencement and completion of construction works in 2018 in 2022. We agree with the government that the implementation of the programme should be a priority. We know, of course, the arguments of the opponents of this investment. Despite their apparent weightiness, they serve nothing but to reduce the safety of Poland and inhibit its economic development. The voices against this investment are indeed voices spoken in the interest of a foreign power. The Free and Solidarni Circle asks for further proceedings over the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u310	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you like to add yourself to the questioning list? If not, I'm closing the list. I invite Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u311	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The estimated amount of investment, i.e. - as experts say - about 880 million PLN by 2022 or about 1 billion PLN, is not the whole, full amount of investment. This is just the amount needed to build the necessary channel infrastructure and approach from the water side. What about the port itself? What about road and rail access? After all, in order to transport the expected and fortune tellers of 3 million tons of goods, you need a brand new, impressive road and rail infrastructure. What about the connection from the Vistula side, which currently has the second class of navigability, means the Vistula on this section is absolutely unsailing? In reality, the port in Elbląg will not achieve the parameters of the port. In that case, whether or not it is more advantageous, from the point of view of the country's economy, to develop e.g. The port of Kolobrzeg and S11? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u312	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u313	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Vistula mine is the flagship investment of the PiS. This is an important pre-election commitment of the current government, and also confirmed in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. However, this is a highly controversial project that can have irreversible consequences, particularly in terms of environmental protection, the natural economy and the landscape. Questions: What if the European Commission does not accept this investment? I would remind you that it concerns a protected Natura 2000 area. I would remind you that the government is obliged to present a new environmental impact report. Has the government leaned sufficiently on the relevance of this project in a technological and, above all, environmental dimension? Have the opinions, conclusions and recommendations of environmentalists, naturalists, finally organisations and associations working to protect the environment and the landscape been taken into account? Please provide details in this regard. And last question: Why, despite the lack of any provision in the strategy for the development of the transport network of Poland for the years 2020,2030 in the area of the expansion of the port in Elbląg and the canal tunnel, do you want to implement the investment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u314	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Furga, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u315	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The construction of the channel by the Vistula Mill seems to be of little use for environmental or environmental reasons. The port in Elbląg is worse located than the ports in Gdańsk and Gdynia. Elbląg is also very poorly connected and has a very weak rail system. Has the government prepared a report that you need to do, the environmental impact of the investment, because the investment, as our previous speakers said, concerns the Natura 2000 protected area? In addition, the report must be accepted by the European Commission. That's what my previous speaker was talking about. Have you considered the views of the citizens of the Maritime Krynica, who, I know, are very opposed to this project? Finally, I will remind you that Elbląg is just an hour away from Gdansk by car. The port is deeper and can take larger ships. Do you also realize that meeting all the requirements for the maintenance of natural assets can very much, but it is very much an investment? I'd like that very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a written reply, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u316	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u317	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a short question, of course, concerning economic sense, although it has already rained a few times here, because this investment will cut off the inhabitants of the Sea Krynica, will cause intense interference into the environment and will consume huge money that is likely to be wasted. I would like to receive in writing a financial simulation of the reimbursement of the costs of this investment. In particular, how many ships per year and how much tonnage will this port use? Was there an economic comparison to the port in Kołobrzeg, which is much more accessible and yet has little strategic importance for Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u318	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The implementation of an investment in the construction of a waterway connecting the Vistula Bay with the Gulf of Gdansk, I think, is expected by a large part of the population of the city of Elbląg and the naddzalewowy communes regardless of political views. It is also, as the Minister pointed out here, the interest of the state. I hope that the aim of the proposed specialty is primarily to introduce procedural facilitations, not to circumvent procedures such as public consultation or environmental research. My questions are about two things. First thing: Is the government taking into account the situation in which the European Commission may not accept the construction project through the channel? The second question, more technical, concerns the options for the construction of the channel included in the specification for the development of the project documentation, which we know has already been selected by the realist. During many years of research - because it is not so that there has not been a previous study - including long-term environmental studies, five options for the construction of the channel have also been analysed. Rejected e.g. a variant of the construction of the canal in Sands and Przebrze and the use for the connection of the river Szkarpawa. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are practically two options left: Skowronki and a bit more expensive... Just one more second. ...but a more environmentally beneficial variant of the New World. Both locations are close by. On the other hand, the government has now joined these two locations, however, Sands - the most expensive option in operation and forcing agreements with Russia in relation to cross-border impacts. Therefore, the question arises: Why did Sands find a place there - to develop this option? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u320	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u321	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! When I listen to the excavation from the Vistula Bay to the Gulf of Gdansk, I feel that you do not know that this flood is a shallow water. This is not a deep water that can be easily marked by a water trail. It is a water that ranges from 2 to 4 m. Each of us remembers pictures after the war, when civilians fled to measure through the bay - it was frozen. Every big winter there's all iced up. The question is, have you calculated the cost of piercing this in winter, icebreakers and transporting an incredible amount of sand all year long to make this shipping channel? That's not a possibility. Are the costs calculated somewhere? In addition to the 880 million we're going to spend on how much it's going to cost a year? There are limits to spending our money together so that the Elbląg can be visited by elegant, larger yachts, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause there's no ship going through there, ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking for these calculations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u322	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u323	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is very controversial. I mean, in my opinion, he is underestimated, both in terms of costs and the deadline for implementation. I cannot imagine a situation in which costs such as digging through the bottom of the flood are not really included, because, as you said, this is indeed a very shallow water and I would not like to see that the only individuals that will be affected there will be sea-going kayaks. Unfortunately, the movement of sand can cause this watercourse to be refreshed all the time, it will be deepened all the time. The second point is the question of the deadline. I am afraid that, precisely because of what has been repeatedly raised here - that this is in the Natura 2000 area, the European Union may be involved in the protests. We need to be sure that this project has been agreed before and has led to a certain consensus between environmental organisations, because let us remember what problems were with Rospuda's implementation of the road. This unfortunately takes a very long time, these are appeals against environmental decisions, which is based on administrative judgments. There is no way that such an investment was undertaken in 2018. So that I ask you very much to know at what stage the preparatory work is actually at, which could clearly define the start of this investment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u324	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What did not happen today during our debate is that this port will complement the port in Tricity, because small ships that often wait in large queues to get to the Tricity ports would have a place in Elbląg where they could be unloaded. As regards the cleaning of the watercourse, preparing it for deepening, I would like to tell you, as a Member of Szczecin, that we have a long-term debate on the deepening of the watercourse to Świnoujście to a level of 12.5 m. And so it is that, in the case of ports that are inside the land, all the time, you have to re-mould the corridors in question. This is the case in all ports, in Hamburg or in other ports that are inland. So that we must also have knowledge by raising this issue during this debate. But, Minister, specifically. Many Members today also asked how the port would be prepared. There were voices today that there was no railroad, no roads. On the other hand, I have the knowledge that the S7 is almost done, the final work is already on Elbląg, and that there is a siding, there is a railroad. Therefore, maybe we need more explanation here, maybe in writing, maybe there is still some way to describe to all parties how far these works are going. I, too, would ask in writing what else is to be done and what is to be completed so that this port can function freely. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u326	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u327	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In October 2016, at a meeting with the people of Elbląg on the status of the project of the excavation mine, Minister Marek Grybarczyk stated that he had information from a higher level, as he described, about the provocation planned by the Russians. It would consist in blocking investments by environmentalists, including Polish ones. In this connection I have a question to the Minister, from which sources these information comes, which in fact accuse Polish environmentalists of collaborating with the Russians, and whether therefore the government of the Republic of Poland has taken any action to gain knowledge about the official position of the Russians in this case, which can be of great importance in adopting an appropriate strategy for the implementation of this important project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u328	Thank you very much, sir. And as the last question, you are asking Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This investment, a very difficult investment, has indeed aroused a lively discussion and a lot of controversy for many years, but one has to ask himself what these controversys come from. I would like to say to you that, firstly, the port in Elbląg is the only European port to which there is no free access. This is a geopolitical context. The only port in the European Union to which there is no free access. Practically speaking, it is up to the Russian authorities to determine whether or not a given vessel can affect the flood. Secondly, I would like to say and dispel doubts, this port is not and will not be a competition for large ports in Poland, for the port in Gdynia or in Świnoujście. He is to perform completely different tasks and to perform a different role. Thirdly, it will indeed be necessary to bear the costs of maintaining the water track, to bear the different costs of maintaining each port, as Elbląg and other ports, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But that is the task - if we want to maintain the availability of communication in our country, these expenses must also be borne. And my last opinion, ladies and gentlemen, is that not only highly developed regions in Poland have the right to serious domestic investments. Warmia and Mazury, as well as other regions of Eastern Poland, also need bold investments and investments so that they can develop and reduce their distance from the richest regions in Poland and Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u330	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Mr Paweł Brzezicki will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You've been so hardworking, you've asked me so many questions. I'm not gonna answer all the questions today because I just didn't know them, I'm not prepared to answer all the questions, but I'm gonna try, let's say, to answer some complexes. The place where we want to make a channel, a channel to Elbląg through Vistula Mill, is historically a strategically sensitive place, very strategically sensitive. The history of this region and the fight against the current land administrator, for example, Warmia and Mazury, mentioned here, led to various investments, and in terms of both tsar Russia and imperial Germany. There have been various types of customs wars, wars, or any kind of struggle for influence that prevented exports or imports of such or other goods, and, in fact, the area that lies south of Elbląg, to this day is an economically inactive area. The channel by measure is an attempt to open this, economic easing. This is possible because of the fact that for several decades it is the Polish government that has been the administrator of this area in its entirety, and for several decades, twenty-seven years, it has not been the Soviet sovereign. This is a historic moment, such a slot in history, which allows us to make this investment, for example to start it, because 5 meters deep it is actually a start, that which we are planning today, and to enable these regions to feel the first, little yet, wind from the sea. What we are planning today is actually a tunnel and a canal that will allow ships to sail at depths of up to 5 m. But for today's paperwork, we have a record that we're going to be in the airlock beating at 6.5. It's not enough. We will change this in the course of legislative work to a minimum of 10 m, which means that the airlock will be able to receive ships, and then the channel, with a capacity of about 15 to 18 thousand. a. These are pretty decent seaships. However, we do not think that Elbląg will become a place where very heavy loads of coal, ore, sulphur, etc. will be loaded or landed, because this is not the place. These places are already in Poland, with which - because I am personally a fan of this channel, despite the function - I have such hopes, but I also translate it to Minister Gróbaryczyk. Well, of course, what will start in the first place is actually that kayak you mentioned. Well, I'll be able to reach Elbląg by kayaking under the Lebanese flag, but I'll also be able to fly a small passenger ship or a large yacht. But what many of you may not see is the remains of the Zamech factory. It is about these large halls in which it is possible to weld, clean, paint and make large steel structures, which are by nature heavy and their transport by land is very expensive or impossible. I see an opportunity for this area when it comes to the so-called. a large industry that will be able to run. In the first place it can be run by entrepreneurs from the area of Gdansk, from the area of Tricity. This is a shipbuilding facility that does not work today, and in fact what is happening in the Tricity, or the number of shipbuilders in one or another arrangement, is already a blockade. There's nothing else you can do. So that we give this Elbląg also to shipyards, we are also going in this direction. As regards the maintenance of this channel - Mrs Szczecin, I am from Szczecin - the shipping channel between Świnoujście and Szczecin is a difficult and expensive channel because it is on a living river. This is a living river that is subject to the geographical law of Coriolis, which does things like that. In Elbląg, on the other hand, this is dead water. In fact, deepening or building this channel without water movements, because there is no great movement of water, does not cause any huge inputs. Of course, we have such simulations, but these are not billions of tons in how many years. This is a simple-to-maintain channel in terms of its depth navigability. The problem may be - this problem we also see - the maintenance of navigability due to ice, but it is also related to ecology because, if we overcome this measure, water, which is today constant and which causes the development of sinics and various types, I do not know, of the micro-organisms that Mr Niesiołowski spoke about, and this is proved in environmental studies which have been conducted since 2008, is becoming more conducive to ecology. Enough of that, this water becomes more salty, because it will be connected to the sea. Therefore, when the bay is supplied with sea water, the risk of freezing is also reduced. As to what was also the question here, I am, Mr President, after reading the documents concerning, so to speak, the dangers associated with the actions of some foreign countries in this direction. These are, to a large extent, worrying documents, but they show that Polish services have undertaken work and intelligence, and counter-intelligence towards identifying the danger from certain entities that are actually an economic front or NGO of some other country's service. So that's what we're dealing with, but it's more nervous than dangerous. That's what I'd call it. With regard to the location or spending of funds, the location decision, why not Kolobrzeg, only Elbląg, I will answer: for economic reasons, for example. Kołobrzeg for today is really only a place for the development of tourism, and in spite of this, it is not about the development of tourism. Yes, very well that it is and will be, it can at the very beginning constitute income, while it is definitely the heavy industry and development of the whole Warmia-Mazury region. There were questions about what would happen if the committee said it was bad, that it couldn't be banned. Well, I wanted to say something to you about the Habitats Directive. There will be no binding opinion of the committee in the case of investments, even if negative environmental impacts are identified, and I am convinced that they will not be identified, on the contrary - it will be positive if the aim of such investment is to protect the health and life of people, to ensure universal safety, to obtain beneficial consequences of primary importance to the environment, which will be the result of the necessary requirements of overriding public interest. We, of course, commissioned the Maritime Authority in Gdynia also commissioned in the investment development elements concerning environmental effects, which is being done at the moment. On the other hand, we have had such research since 2008. That's what Professor Niesiołowski said, which is cormorants. We're hoping that four cormorants' nests will actually disappear. However, if this digging takes place outside the breeding period, these cormorants will move somewhere, no excavator will run them over there. As far as trees are concerned, these beech trees, maybe a few trees, while as regards the overall ecological system or balance of the ecological system, it will be greatly spoiled by the influx of fresh water from the Baltic Sea. All the questions you have asked - we have written them down - I will answer them in writing because they were specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u332	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on investment in the construction of a waterway linking Vistula Bay to Gdansk Bay, in print No 1182, to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Councils and Councils and on the amendment of certain other laws (Print No 1137). I ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party, I have today the honour and pleasure to present to the High House a draft law on the Councils and Councils and on the amendment of certain other laws. The project is intended to strengthen the institutional position of the Councils and bodies of the Councils, including the Councils themselves. The Chief's institution has been operating in our political and legal system since the Middle Ages. This office is one of the most characteristic components of organised life of settled rural communities. In these communities, beside the voluntary fire department, beside the parish or the rural hostels' circles, it is the council that is one of the most important and most needed inhabitants of the institution. The council not only represents the village to local authorities, it not only informs the residents of the announcements. The Council is usually the first to respond to the needs of its neighbours, to organize a collection of gifts for the firefighters in many tragic fire situations, and to organise aid for neighbouring villages affected by various difficult situations. He's just available every day and helpful. Most often, the Council is the initiator of changes and investments improving the daily existence of rural residents. The situation has improved significantly since the introduction of the Social Funds and the availability of European funds for rural development. The Chief may have more today than he could have done 10 or 20 years ago. The Chiefs take advantage of these opportunities very well. Thanks to these conditions that we managed to create, for example in the years 2007 to 2015, today the Polish village is developing rapidly and in many places it is visible to the naked eye as well as in this external dimension it is beautiful. But we want to move on. As we meet the expectations of the Chiefs, and we have always been heard in their voice, we come out as the Polish People's Party with an initiative that will further strengthen the position of the Chiefs and enable more than 40,000. Councillors in our country continue to develop their small homelands. According to Art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 2 April 1997, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the territorial system of the Republic of Poland ensures the decentralisation of the public authority. This means that our system is built on the principle of subsidiarity, thus transferring as many competences to local communities as possible. We are convinced that the strength of the state comes from the attachment of citizens to the very small communities in which they live. It is obvious that the natural characteristic of man is to take care of the nearest environment in which he lives and works. In Poland, the smallest organizational unit in which people live is the village created on the basis of the Act of 8 March 1990 on local government. The villagers should have the right to actively influence the functioning and transformation of the local environment. Today, we want to give even greater empowerment to this smallest cell of the local government, which is the commonwealth. The current rules are not fully regulated, in our opinion, by the duties of the Chief and are underestimating his position. The functions and powers of the Soviet Councils, as well as of the rural meetings, are not fully defined. The tasks performed by the Chief shall be public tasks. In view of this, the proposed law in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 sets out that the municipality council shall lay down the rules on which the Councils and members of the Councils will be entitled to a diet or reimbursement of travel expenses. In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the project is foreseen that the Heads, regardless of their diet and reimbursement of their travel expenses, will be remunerated in respect of a function of half the minimum salary, determined on the basis of the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work, for each month commenced. In addition, the term of office of the Chief will be equivalent to joining the pension insurance scheme and the remuneration referred to above will therefore be added to the establishment of the pension base. This, I think, is certainly the expected decision for those chiefs who have devoted most of their lives to this role, and such cases are not lacking, when the term of office of the chief is often 15, 20 or more years, and there are record-makers who perform this function much longer. High Izbo! It is important to appreciate the contribution of the Chiefs to our social life. This was our idea when we offered half of the minimum wage paid to the Councils constantly from the state budget. Currently, the effort of the chiefs is appreciated or not appreciated by local authorities. I know such cases myself, that the council of one municipality is properly rewarded, and his neighbour who lives in the neighbouring community gets nothing, and they are also chiefs who put many hearts into their work, in animating the activities of the local community. On this occasion, I want to calm down, dispel the concerns of local governments that arise here and there. In view of the fact that the new benefit will be paid from the State budget, it will not in any way burden either the local authorities or the municipalities, nor will it interfere with the exercise of local seats by the Councils, which a large group has also devoted themselves to doing so by working in the local government. According to the 2014 Statistical Yearbook of Voivodships, the number of heads is 40 382. Taking into account the flat-rate remuneration associated with their function, which amounts to half of the minimum monthly salary and the minimum wage for work, the costs that will be charged to the state budget will amount to PLN 40 million per month, i.e. over PLN 400 million per year. According to the project, the Council thanks to the new competences enshrined in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the project will be able to participate in the deliberations of the municipal council without voting rights. It will also benefit from the legal protection available to public officials. And here I will point out that this postulate has been signalled by the chiefs for many years. A proposal to act as public benefit organisations is used to strengthen the role of the Councils, so that local communities can have the opportunity to obtain extra-budget resources to carry out their planned tasks. It has been a shame in recent years to see how many financial opportunities, the possibility of reaching for funds for the beauty of rural space passed through the rural communities around the nose, because the Council and the Council could not ask for such money. Some have tried to create parallel associations, but why complicate life when it can successfully reach for funds that are dedicated to infrastructure projects. But it is also important, and we must not forget, that society is building social capital by developing social and cultural activity. These examples can be multiplied, there are a lot of them. In our opinion, this is, High Izbo, somewhat epochal change, much more important than predicting benefits to the chiefs, which is the most exposed in the media record of our project. We will give the Council legal personality and enable this project, if only recognition is gained, to heads far wider than ever before the spectrum of possibilities for action. So far, there has been a problem in the countryside: we would have done something positive for our village, but from somewhere we would have to raise money. Often the municipality, not very rich, was unable to support its ideas. To get the money, you had to start associations first, as I said. Only a small percentage of the village today has such associations and benefits from the opportunities available to these organisations. By making official organizations of public benefit, we will give everyone more than 40,000. a status that will allow greater flexibility when it comes to reaching for external resources. This is also in our view of far-reaching change. As we see today and praise the achievements of the 25th anniversary of Polish self-government, so in the future we will appreciate the achievements of strong, legal entities. Let's just give Polish countryside, rural areas a chance. The project does not burden the budgets of local government units, as I mentioned, nor does it fall within the scope of European Union law. I will add, High Izbo, that we are open as applicants for a broad discussion of this project. We're not closing ourselves in the proposals we've written down here. We will be happy to listen to the catalogue of further possibilities that may arise from the discussion of this project in order to give support and release some energy that naps in the communities, in the bodies of these communities. So far these not quite defined competences, not quite legally defined possibilities have caused this potential to be suppressed in some way. I think we can make a wonderful gesture today to those local leaders who are ready, have ideas, they just lack a full spectrum of possibilities for action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u334	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Richard Bartosik, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on the Councils and Councils and on the amendment of certain other laws, print No 1137. High Izbo! The status of the state was defined in the Act of 8 March 1990 on municipal government. The resolution body in the Council is the village meeting, and the executive one is the council. In its activities, the Council is supported by the Council of the Socialists. The Council and the members of the Soviet Council shall be elected by secret ballot, directly from the unlimited number of candidates by the permanent residents of the parliament entitled to vote. In the proposal submitted, applicants in the justification for the project state that the citizens of the village should have the right to actively influence the functioning and transformation of the local environment, and therefore it is necessary in one legal act to specify the legal situation of the village and the competence of the Council. This will make it possible to show the role of the council. It is difficult to agree with the views expressed by the applicants. This request is contained in the Local Government Act. The Council can already organise, finance, implement municipal investments in the area of the community, initiate and participate in sporting, recreational, cultural, educational and educational activities, as well as related to European integration, it can conduct the financial economy of the community within the municipal budget, address the commune council and the council with investment proposals, and submit applications for social, material and financial benefits to the residents in need of assistance to the municipal council. The tasks to be carried out by the Council are set out in its statutes. The main task of the village is to support the activities of the municipality. The provisions contained in the draft law are mostly currently in force under the Municipal Government Act. High Izbo! A separate issue is the financial proposals for the remuneration of the Heads of State budget. These proposals are not in line with the rules in force because the Chief does not perform public and governmental tasks. Moreover, the chiefs carry out their tasks socially and this means that they enjoy respect and recognition in their environments, and the proposed expenditure is not without relevance to the state budget. Thus, these financial proposals should be considered as an attempt to achieve policy objectives by a specific environment as State money. However, the key issue in this matter is the Constitution, Art. 164, which says that the primary unit of the local government is the municipality. The proposed changes are contrary to this provision. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recognises that possible changes in this area can be considered in the context of comprehensive changes in the local government system. Therefore, our club requests the rejection of the draft Law No 1137 at first reading. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u336	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jack Protas... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...Citizen's Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform is a pro-government and pro-Citizen party. For us, therefore, the principle of subsidiarity, which says that competence to designate as low as possible in local communities, is sanctity. We therefore appreciate the PSL initiative and support it, and we will vote in favour of sending the bill to committee. Of course, we have our comments and we will report them in the course of the discussion, in the course of further work. My colleague will be talking about these comments in a moment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u338	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project addresses three key issues: firstly, the legal personality of the state, very problematic, with significant systemic implications for the local government in Poland, secondly, the remuneration of the Councils with serious consequences for the state budget and the pursuit of public benefit activities, which is a very accurate and expected proposal in the context of development opportunities provided by the Sołecki Fund. I'm just gonna focus on the issue of legal personality, which is essential to the position of the government. Content of the Article 2 of the project by copying the provisions of Article. 1 paragraph 1 and Article 1 2 (2) 1 of the Municipal Government Act, states that the inhabitants of the community form a local government community, the local government performs public tasks on behalf of itself and on its own responsibility and the local government acquires legal personality. Therefore, these regulations are of a systemic nature and aim to create another degree of local self-government in Poland. Such a far-reaching regulation requires an opinion on compliance with the provisions of Chapter VII of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland: Local government and the positions of national representatives of local government. The project records do not specify to what extent the establishment will benefit from the legal personality granted to it - whether limited or equally with other entities having legal personality. Should the county be subject to rights and obligations, among others. in the field of civil law relations, what includes the acquisition of rights and the taking-up of obligations in their own name and on their own responsibility? The consequence of legal personality is the granting of an area of action. The designer only talks about the performance of public tasks on his own behalf and on his own responsibility, without providing a directory of tasks. There is a problem here because it seems that the scope of public tasks has been exhausted and detailed in the laws for the three levels of local government in Poland. On this issue, however, we have our proposals. The project ignores the scope of financial decisions and the responsibility for taking them. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 says only that the administrative and organizational service tasks of the village are carried out by the local municipality and that the financial service tasks of the local government are carried out by the local government. The impreciseness of these provisions should be noted, as on the basis of the presumption of competence resulting from the Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Municipal Government Act, it would be up to the municipal council to provide administrative and organisational services to the local government. How will the municipalities carry out this kind of task? We have more attention to the project. For example, art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the project provides that the Chief Executive for the function is to establish the employment relationship on the basis of the choice. The question therefore arises as to who the Chief is referring to the employment relationship and what status the Chief will have as an employee. Despite the comments made, we note that the project is a value, because it addresses issues of empowerment of the community, which has not been resolved since the birth of the local government. For these reasons, He deserves a job in committees. It is worth taking care of the provisions giving greater influence to the decision-making processes taking place in the municipality, the regulation of participation in development issues, the impact on the provision of services in the territory of the village, the equipment of the institutions with elements determining the quality of life, which would constitute a real strengthening of the institution. We will try to make amendments in this direction. At the same time, I would like to announce that the Civic Platform will also prepare a draft amendment to the Act on the Social Fund, so that this regulation will further affect the development opportunities of rural communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u340	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the project is concerned, I'm sure the intention is right. The project is very necessary to appreciate the Polish village and Polish leaders, to develop this village. The Chiefs know best what is needed in the countryside, how to administer this village. An example of this is the municipality of Proszowice, where I served as city councilman and introduced the city fund as council. At the moment, the chiefs, thanks to the resources they can have, are doing things that are most important. If the most important thing is the road or digging a ditch, then they do it, they, together with the Soviet Council, make that decision. The mayor or the mayor doesn't impose on the chiefs what they're supposed to do in their own village. As for the procedure of this law, I am a little surprised at the way it is, because I expected a motion for rejection at first reading, and I wanted to prevent it in some way. With Mr Mark Owl present here, then the Civic Platform, and Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, we were together at a meeting in Wierzchosławice, where the leader of the folk movements of Vincent Witos originated, and there we were at a meeting with the Malopolska Sołtys Association. The chiefs mentioned that there was a need for this bill, that they would like to speak with all parties, with all parliamentarians, because they fear that if this project comes out of one party, from one group, then it will be lost. And maybe it's going to happen, it looks like it's going to happen. The Chiefs, the Association of Chiefs, will take the legislative initiative. As far as I know, they will be collecting signatures and I would like to appeal from this place to all of you to sit down with the chiefs and create a project that would suit all the groups, because at the moment we fired the baby with a bath, but hopefully we can fix it. And here's another case. I don't like this password, but you've had a lot of time to run this project. You had a budget at your disposal, you could have tried this bill earlier, and then the Chiefs would have enjoyed it now. On the other hand, as regards errors, it should be noted that, in the context of financing, the county will be able to go bankrupt. And what will be the consequences for the inhabitants? It is not entirely clear how the Chief of Staff and the Council will be elected, who is the employer of the Chief of Staff. It is possible to introduce a lower unit than a commonwealth. What's it gonna be, a county, a principality or a neighborhood? I stress, the idea, the idea is very good, which is why I would like the project to go to committee. However, I recommend working on this project because we are not here to race when it comes to projects. I also submitted a bill on pension allowances for volunteer firefighters myself, and later during this term of office, the Polish People's Party submitted this project. I know exactly that the previous terms of office were also submitted by you, but at the time you were in charge, this project was not procedated. Firefighters could have been helped here before. On the other hand, I hear that Law and Justice support the citizens' initiative project, so summa summarum seems to pass one of these projects. That's a plus. We race for projects, they're all actually similar. I hope that one of them will pass and the firefighters will enjoy this project and these solutions. As for this project that's going to help the chiefs, I'm in favour of sending him to the committee to correct him. If this does not work, if the Law and Justice reject the project at first reading, I appeal that we all talk to the Councils, meet, support a citizens' initiative and develop a project that will serve the Councils above all. Thank you very much. And remember: the Chief - that sounds proud. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u342	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Owl, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u343	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Poselski Club to present our position on the draft law on the Councils and Councils and on the amendment of certain other laws. One might ask: Is such a law necessary at all? Listening to Mr Bartosik, we have heard that it is not that all this is already written in other documents, in another law, in the municipal government law. You have to be realistic or not be in a village for a long time to put up a position like this. I also refer to my experience. I started my public activity 23 years ago as the Chief of Staff in my village, in the 20,000th Beaver, where I was the Chief of Staff, chairman of the Soviet Council. I know that there is no doubt that regulation for the Councils and the Councils is needed as much as possible. My predecessor called our meeting here in Wierzchosławice, it was a national reunion of the Chiefs. In fact, we talked about this, and the three of us made a declaration that we would be working on a project like this when it appeared. And I wouldn't mind the club of the Polish People's Party that he prepared this project before us. It doesn't matter who reports it. It is important whether there is a good basis for further work. It is important for me to make a declaration by the Member of the applicant who, in his final words, has declared a far-reaching openness to the proposed initiatives, and this is a key issue. Let us work in the committee of local government on this document, because it is undoubtedly a good basis for discussing the shape of the Council, its tasks, the status of the Council. I must tell you that what the rural environments are reporting is undoubtedly two elements: restoring legal entity, and this law gives it, and restoring at least to a minimum the financial economy. This must be introduced, this is necessary, and this will make it very much easier to carry out many public tasks. I wish that the Council would act a little like an association, that the funds that come from the Sołecki Fund would influence the account, that they would be able to be used for grants that the Sołecki Council itself would acquire, for example. under the RDP, on the Leader initiative, that they will also be able to influence donors' resources if they implement different actions. The biggest dream I have is to make unconfirmed measures in the form of 1% in favour of other associations taxes could also influence the account of a given community so that we could rebuild the community. For a year and a half, you've led to a huge division. You must be aware that you cannot rebuild the national community by decreeing anything. It must be rebuilt in the smallest communities, communities, schools and other organisations. Your Marshal, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień still has another part, if you please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u344	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think this bill is absolutely necessary. There's been a lot of good things going on lately when it comes to supporting the Chiefs. This is the equivalent of one of the most important people responsible for the community. And here the issue of funding or financial support of the Chiefs is absolutely important. These are people who are very often pulling money out of their own wallet, supporting various kinds of social initiatives to unite the group. These are the people who are usually the first to go to the most deprived. These are the people who are most often the first to react in disturbing situations. That is why I absolutely agree that the financial support of these people is needed, but I would consider one issue, namely that we should reward the chiefs honestly to separate the heads responsible for a few thousand communities, from those responsible for several persons, dozens of people or dozens of people, so that this sense of proper remuneration is fair and as much as possible in line with social expectations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think there's money in your budget for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u346	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u347	Thank you very much. My dear Miss Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking all those who expressed their willingness to work, the openness to this project, both to the Civic Platform club and Kukiz15, the Modern. This shows that we can work on interesting projects over divisions. I'm shocked by the position of the PiS club. You have received very strong support in the countryside, you are 100% responsibility for governments in Poland because you won elections, no one questions that, but you don't listen to people. This is where you made a mistake again, or you misled us, you misled our fellow countrymen. The Prime Minister on this speaker repeatedly, almost every time in his speeches, repeats several times: I am ready for dialogue, seeking good solutions, let the opposition present interesting ideas, let the opposition be substantive, let us support ourselves, let us be in political dispute, but let us work for Poland. We gave you the most attractive offer we could. This bill will not be adopted without your vote. You would have a great share in the adoption of a law which strengthens the subjectivity of not a person of the Council, but a village in which he acts as a host, which strengthens the subjectivity and gives proper dignity to people living in the countryside, gives them greater opportunities. I ask you to reconsider whether it is worth rejecting this proposal, this law today. Wouldn't it be better to turn her over to the subcommittee, start working in a team where all the parties will be in, but you'll have the dominant vote? We will invite the chiefs, we will invite the associations and we will be able to improve them, also taking into account your comments. We declare this openness: on proposals made by all parliamentary clubs, per 1% tax - a very good idea to think about the salary. It was very important for us to include this internship in retirement insurance. He is essential, especially for women. More and more women are chiefs. [[Because a woman is the best.]] And this is very good, because it also gives this versatility of development. But a woman, especially in the countryside, often has less opportunity to collect a good wallet for retirement. Let us help those who want to engage socially. This is a chance to also give the state a chance to be treated as an organization of public benefit. Today you have to start associations to support your society, and that's how it would be done directly. For example, in view of this point, even if this one point is only to pass, it is worth working on this bill. I understand that we have an ideological dispute about Poland's vision. We as folks, as a people's movement derived from our love for self-determination, are in favour of decentralising Poland, for giving competence as close as possible to people. There are cases that are settled in the family, and neither the state nor the government are needed. There are cases that are taking place in the Council or in the housing estate, later in the commune, in the county, in the voivodship and in the state. This is self-government democracy. I am not in favour of preliminaries democracy, where everything must come from Warsaw, where there must be a decision on how to build a waterworks or how to organize a holiday of the village. Because even for these purposes this money could go - to improve the quality of life, especially in rural areas, and expenditure is not big either. You're asking me what happened. do These past few years. The Sołecki fund was created, at local government level there are very interesting initiatives, even in the Łódź voivodship, where small grants are awarded - about 5 thousand. PLN for the state for development from the local government. For this it is worth to reach out and it is realized as folklore in local governments, earlier in the government. Not everything works out. You'll see for yourself, too, when you're done with your term of office, that there's not everything to be done. If everything were to be done in one or two terms, then our longer presence in this room would be unnecessary. In general, the functioning of the state consists of constant change and continuous movement in order to adapt to the needs and expectations of the population. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Without extended maternity leave, crèches and kindergartens there would be no 500+, without the Sołecki Fund there would be no possibility of this project. I appeal to all political biases: support this law and let us give a chance for the great subjectivity of the Polish village, the Council, the Soviet Council and, above all, its inhabitants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u348	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The social function of the Council exists in public space in Poland, in the Polish village for a long time. The function of the chief is a characteristic component of the image of the Polish village. This social function, I stress, is an important role in the social and economic life of the village. The good chief is the initiator of projects for the rural community, he knows what his neighbours expect from the local government, and he is trying to get these suggestions to the commune council and the village council through him. The Council is an honorable and honorable function. The Council is a representative of a group of residents, very often connected with personal relationships. Up until now, no one has ever thought of asking for a salary for this honorable service, and even more so for a job. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSL Members! Under the cloak of strengthening the government and strengthening the position of the Chiefs, you want to destroy the institution of the Chief. You want the chiefs to become permanent officials, you want to destroy what is the basis of civil society - selflessness and good contact with voters, you want to destroy civic activity. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no crisis in the function of the Chief of Staff and the institutions of the Council. The activities of the Council and the Council have always been auxiliary activities for the commune council and as such works. No one is forcing anyone to act as Chief of Staff, yet those who are willing have never been missed. The chiefs were, are and will be elected in the future. The function of the Chief is a social function and no incentives in the form of public employment are needed for its good functioning. The Council is a leader in its environment and has authority resulting, among others. because he is socially capable of fulfilling his duties with this function. The introduction of a professional chief will lead to the collapse of this institution, and the authority of a public-money chief will become a fiction. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSL! You want to reach the budget for nearly 500 million zlotys a year out of taxpayers' money? I said, why? To create another army of officials who will lose touch with reality in exchange for support for the next election, just to keep the income allowance? Or do you want to get some extra money for your local government officials, councillors of rural communities, but they are often also chiefs? There can't be an agreement. Will the next step be dieting for councillors of the Soviet Council? How about a place and an office for the Chief of Staff at the taxpayer's expense? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Well, they have, they have premises.]] Why would you want to correct something that works well? [[Voice from the courtroom: They've got the town halls.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am in favour of a friendly country where there are simple rules and friendly law. The remaining provisions of the draft law, which do not concern the remuneration of the Councils, are in most cases the clarification of the standards of the Act of 8 March 1990 on municipal government or the rules taken out of that law. The only novelty contained in the draft law is the proposal that societies could act as public benefit organisations and thus gain more power to raise extra-budget resources to carry out the planned tasks. However, why should we introduce competition for the solstices with the current many non-governmental organisations? In addition, the possible extension of the powers of the local authorities due to the so-called. Social justice should also apply to other local support units. If such a provision were to enter into force, which I am not convinced of, should it not be included in the Local Government Act? It must be noted, however, that the call for the implementation of the paid office of the Chief of Staff, combined with the granting of rights to public benefit organisations, is a mix-up with confusion. It is an attempt to combine office functions with a social organization, the qualities of power with the rights of a non-governmental organisation - perhaps all in order to please the rural electorate. Such a galimatias is not applicable, because can the administration be an NGO at the same time? The Free and Solidarnia Circle is a supporter of the state without any official apparatus - without unnecessary, I apologize for the slip - without unnecessary official apparatus, a device that often forgets what it was created for, and all actions focus on the justification of its existence and the collection of funds from the budget. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote [[♪ The bell ♪]] against the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u350	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-associated Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Movement supports a strong central government and supports such a vision of the state, which assumes high self-government and assumes that the State performs its tasks in a supportive manner. Of course, referring to Mr Ireneusz Odni's speech, it is agreed that in Poland we have significant surpluses in various types of administration. I would especially like to draw attention, on the one hand, to the administration at the level of the voivodship, where we have often duplicated competences and overlaps; when it comes to voivodship and voivodeship, I would draw attention here to the enlarged powiats. On the other hand, I believe that the initiative to equip the chiefs, this oldest social function in Poland, is worthy of attention and is worthy of support. Why? Because democracy works best, best at the lowest level, where people have direct contact with their representatives, where, according to popular expression, the neighbors know who is sitting on it. Today, the function of the Chief without any minimal even gratification is a difficult, ungrateful function, in some cases almost heroic, to include and exercise it. This also sometimes causes, unfortunately, that the function of the Chief chief especially in very small towns is simply a negative selection. It is such a hot potato thrown from one to the other. That is why I think that this money, not so big again on the scale of the budget, which should be allocated to the Councils and the Council, should be found, and we should look for savings where actually bureaucracy and administration are particularly extensive - at the voivodship level, also at the district level. We should be looking for savings there in particular. Ladies and gentlemen! Soldiers and chiefs play a huge role and it is worth this lowest level of Polish self-organization, Polish self-government to help. The National Movement is in favour of the project submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u352	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. As you first ask Marek Kwitek, Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If I hadn't been a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development by two terms, I might have believed the good intentions and this flaming speech by the President. I would like to say this: Law and Justice have brought at least twice a draft law on increasing diets. We then offered from PLN 100 to PLN 250 depending on the size of the village. And what was the reaction of the government and the coalition you created? Negative. I would just like to quote the arguments: the village is an auxiliary unit of the municipality, so all funds paid to the councils should come from the local government; diets cannot be financed from the state budget due to the system's legitimacy. What changed in this matter that suddenly you changed your mind? The platform adopted very strongly here, it was against the introduction of these diets. Now there's a speech. [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the salary. I ask: Where will you get PLN 0.5 billion? The Member of the applicant reassured that local authorities would not pay for this, would pay the budget. Sure, if you don't rule, you always have good ideas and listen to the voice of the village - if you don't rule - and if you rule, go ahead: what is the effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u354	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15. And I would very much ask you to keep time discipline on these questions, because we have to make it before the votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u355	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project concerns, among others: the definition of the rules of choice and the functioning of the Councils and Councils, but it contains numerous errors and is imprecise. I'm asking for information from the applicants who the Chief would have a job relationship with based on a choice - who would be his employer. It's about art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No In addition, tell me how the employment relationship is to be established if the remuneration is to be lower than the minimum wage. In addition, I ask your representative very much to define what a rural meeting is. It is very important to know what a rural meeting is, since it is to have the power to agree to the depletion by the municipal council of the existing rights of the courts to exercise their property. I would also like to inform you, although you have already mentioned why the salary of the Chief and the diet are to be financed by the state budget. A good chief is a good host, for the benefit of his state and for the whole country. I know something. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's because my sleep. My father-in-law was a chief. And I appeal: let us support what is good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u356	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gratification for work is needed because let's not hide: the council is quasi-official of the commune, it is a messenger of the commune. The commune by this man, by these people, because there are also many women, of course, doing things in the council. The Chief's in charge of the council. You have to look for a formula. I thought that PiS would like to discuss this issue, would like to discuss strengthening the state, understanding that this is really an unfinished element when it comes to local government in Poland. I thought he'd support the PSL proposal and that's what he'd be interested in, because there could be 40 grand. congratulated functions. Then it would suffice to introduce the principle that more than two terms of office cannot be performed by the Chief, starting e.g. from 2018 or 2019, and - 40 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the function to be included. I wish you'd done that. You're losing your chance. Think about it. [[Applause]] [[That's funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u358	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No one questions the fact that the function of the Chief is an extremely honorable function, the Chief has great authority in the countryside. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a matter of responsibility to the village assembly, to the people who choose the person to perform this function. The introduction of stagism will upset this order, and it will upset the legal order. In the current local government situation it is a disorder of the state, it cannot be allowed at this moment. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, you were talking about misleading voters. You should have introduced this much earlier, you had such opportunities, as one and the other part of this room. Well, that's misleading. Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will end with the chief of staff being the person who will have the biggest family in the country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u360	Thank you very much. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the statistical office we have more than 40,000 in Poland. Chiefs. Being a village host is a huge challenge, and the Chief is a unique public function. It is closest to the problems of the inhabitants, best knows the needs of the local environment, is the authentic leader of the rural community. It is most often to the chiefs, and not to the councilmen from their districts or to the municipal office that residents come to, addressing them directly with their problems. Today, the leaders face major challenges, and their activity depends largely on the development of villages and the improvement of quality of life. That's why it's very bad that PiS wants to reject this project at first reading. You don't want to work with local governments. Why? Tell me why. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And so beautifully during the election campaign Prime Minister Szydło promised to listen to Poles. This law should be prosecuted and I hope that in the future it will return to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u362	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Poland's territorial system ensures the decentralisation of public authority and is built on the principle of subsidiarity - no one here disputes this. The local Communities should be given as much competence as possible. In the smallest unit of self-government, which is the council, the most important role is played - everyone in this room knows it - the chief of state and the council of the Soviet Union. You could say he's a leader. It also depends on the activity of the Chief: what kind of chief we choose, we will have a council. Anyone who chooses to take up the function of the Chief, wants to be active, must be ready for hard work, for which little gets in return. That's where the bill came from. And don't be upset that it's the Polish People's Party, because democracy shows that other club projects support, [[♪ The bell ♪]] aim to continue reading, as amendments can be tabled in further reading. I am very happy, let the Polish village hear that the Polish People's Party supports government projects, but also look at our projects. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] I didn't fire anyone as a marshal of the voivodship, neither did I from the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u364	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. [[There was no one there from PiS.]] I'm asking you to lower your emotions in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the role of the Council is very important for the proper functioning of the local community. The bill leaves interpretation doubts in many places, so I have a few questions for applicants. Firstly, the project introduced the possibility of setting up a lower-ranking unit within the framework of the village. Such a provision, without mentioning what types of individuals can be, is very dangerous. There is nothing to prevent the commune council from establishing - as a colleague said - counties, principalities, districts and other such units. Therefore, what kind of lower-ranking units, of which names and competences, can be invoked? Secondly, according to the provisions of the project, the Council acquires legal personality and will therefore be able to, for example, make commitments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will have to be paid. And now the question is: From what sources will they be repaid? What happens when the Commonwealth goes bankrupt? Who's gonna cover the costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u366	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Beja, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions for the applicant. Will the village as an auxiliary unit of the municipality, as this law will enter into force, be able to benefit from very widely understood EU funds? And the second question is this: Will this salary, which the chief will charge, count towards retirement? I have this appeal to my colleagues in Law and Justice. Look, we meet at all kinds of meetings, country celebrations. Tell me how you look into the eyes of the village chiefs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Straight ahead!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u368	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mrs. Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I strongly support the bill which strengthens the position of the Chiefs, its further proceding. The Council carries out a wide range of tasks concerning the countryside and its inhabitants. Only a strong community with a good leader, a leader is an opportunity for the rapid development of the village, as well as for building civil society in the countryside. This is a very necessary Polish village, both to well organized towns and, above all, to where there is still much to do. I am convinced that, during the legislative process, all the doubts that we are proposing here will be resolved in this way, to the good of the Councils and in Parliament's agreement. I appeal to the High House: let us work on the necessary bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u370	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 7, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 1 Provision was made for municipal property to be governed by the rules on municipal property. The only provision for this is Article. Paragraph 7 1, which states that the Council manages and uses municipal property and disposes of the revenue from that source to the extent specified in the Statute. Does this mean that the council will manage the municipal property? To what extent will he be responsible for this? And will it interfere with the community budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u372	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is very interesting, that is, it improves the situation of the Council and the Council. Salary - as appropriate. Legal personality - priceless. I'm just gonna ask the ruling party if she's gonna give this project a chance. First, please pay attention, you are trying to introduce chaos through the education bill, through the law on marginalisation of the function of the voivodship environmental fund, you are trying to cut the funding, and now you are trying to weaken the council... [[How?]] The fact that you're eliminating the possibilities of their development. Is it that you want to centralize power? Have you forgotten who's been walking? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And put up posters during the campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u374	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Owl, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant whether he does not have the impression that the Members of the PiS have read only the article. 5 of this law, because all their speeches were limited to remuneration and social security for the chiefs. I also have questions like that. Does this law on local government, which supposedly defines all tasks for the community, actually state that? There it is, I would like to say to you, in my opinion only and only the authority for the council of the municipality to create settlements and to define the appropriate powers for the council. Is it true that until today there is no guarantee of a full secret choice, as elected councillors, mayor, Member, that the Council does not have such regulations, but can be chosen e.g. At a rural meeting with a 10% turnout? Is it true that the state cannot run any financial economy and the whole financial economy [[♪ The bell ♪]] is run by the local government and the mayor? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u376	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u377	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The word key is a delusion and it can be said that Polish People's Party and applicants know about this system of settlement and the functioning of rural self-government like a wolf on the stars. You have no idea. Ladies and gentlemen, the function of the Chief is social, first of all. Secondly, the council is already being rewarded, because if only the council of the municipality agrees in its resolution, the council already has guaranteed money, even from a percentage of the collection for agricultural tax. Therefore, this is another hypocrisy. A specific question for you. It is said that fair local government elections took place in 2014. There PSL was successful and how I do not know it, but has a significant impact on what is happening in local governments. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, appeal to your councillors, to your mayors, to the mayors, so that they can draw the right resources from the municipal budget to be rewarded. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no reason for that not to happen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u378	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Ireneusz Odna, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the previous Member has partially exhausted my questions, but already today the village is an auxiliary unit of the commune and the council of the municipality can decide to give the council a diet so that the council does not work for free, which you are raising. But I have this question, because here Mr Beida spoke about raising EU funds by the Council. What potential, what administrative equipment, what opportunities does the Chief have to account for grants, EU funds? Do you - a question to the applicant - want to create a fourth level of self-government? This is an act to the detriment of the state, this is action... You want to strengthen yourselves in your electoral group and you want to win a bigger electorate in the country at the expense of de facto state institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u380	Thank you very much. The questions will first be answered by Minister Sebastian Gwałek, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I would very much ask you to answer the questions properly, because we have 15 minutes to vote, and yet a representative of the applicants will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Although I have not heard the question to myself, to the Ministry, but I will use this moment to present our position, the position of the Ministry, because there is not yet a government position on this project. This project, as it has already sounded many times, assumes several solutions. Unfortunately, these solutions in our assessment raise great doubts. First of all, Art. 2 draft law on the Councils and Councils and on the amendment of certain other laws clearly goes beyond the framework set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the European Charter of Territorial Self-Government, because it equips only one type of auxiliary unit, the Council, with attributes specific to local self-government units, forgetting, for example. The neighborhood. It is also worth noting that granting the state the status of a local government unit would require further changes, namely the establishment of a local government office, the granting of budgetary and financial autonomy to them, the inclusion of the Councils in anti-corruption regulations, and the supervision of voivodeships and regional accounting chambers themselves. These regulations are not in this project. The project is inconsistent. Despite the project's independence, it is proposed that its service - both administrative and organisational as well as financial - should continue to run the municipality, so nothing would change. It is also questionable to propose the inclusion of villages in the catalogue of bodies entitled to carry out public service activities. This would lead to a reduction in the transparency of public transfers and to the preservation, properly shaken, of equal opportunities for applicants. Another reservation raises the principle of financing and employing the Heads of State proposed in the draft. The proposal that the remuneration of the Councils should be financed by the state budget raises quite a number of concerns because all other local authorities, their representatives, are financed from the budgets of these units. It seems doubtful, hence our reservations. However, it has not been defined at the same time how the employment relationship will be dealt with with by the Chief, how he will respond. In principle, there is no information on how to raise this 500 million for wages. Appreciating the role played by the Councils and the Councils in local communities and all activities contributing to the creation of civil society, it is unfortunately impossible to overlook the shortcomings of this project, hence the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration gives a negative opinion on this project. Thank you. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u382	Thank you very much. I ask you, Mr Paszik, to answer the questions, and I ask you in the Chamber to remain silent, because if anyone else is not interested in this point - until the vote is still 10 minutes - please allow the Members who work here to do their job.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I go to the questions - probably not all of them I can answer within 10 minutes - but first this reflection for all those who came with a negative attitude towards this presented project, ready to reject it at first reading. Namely weigh on one thing: the council is a link between the local community and the local government. As I have already had the opportunity to say, when presenting the project, the rules currently do not fully regulate the tasks of the Chief and do not appreciate this position. Our proposal is moving towards a change of condition. We want to define the powers of the Chief and strengthen his role. The new responsibilities bear an appropriate remuneration. Mr Bartosik, speaking on behalf of the PiS Parliamentary Club, asked what the problem was, said that, after all, the Council, the Council are the auxiliary bodies of the commune, everything is fine. Well, sir, it is certainly not enough - or perhaps not enough - that you visit the Chiefs in various places and you should know that there are places where everything is fine, because on both sides there are conditions for good mutual cooperation, but there are many places where the Chiefs cannot fully carry out this supporting role - and this project goes against such demands - because for various reasons, you or the Mayor do not share the vision of the development of the village, which he or she is pursuing or wants to pursue the Council. It was astonishing to see Mr Profits, a representative of the circle, who says that there is something under the coat that we want to change, that there is no shortage of those willing. Mr President, as your constituency will travel well along and across, you will find that there are many villages where it is not the case that there is a queue of volunteers. You'll find it takes a boost to mobilize the chiefs. Not much, you'll know that today the Chief is not a farmer who, somewhere in his village, connects running a farm and being a Chief. Today the chiefs are people who have their positions, jobs, must be able to compensate in some way often for the reduced remuneration of the active function of the chief. And that's what this 1000 PLN salary would be for. One must, you know, collide with the realities that are actually present in the settlements in Poland. You're saying we're creating some kind of rivalry for the state and NGOs. You know, I can't explain anything either, unless you have no knowledge of the reality of the state. After all, it is thanks to the ingenuity and creativity of the villages that they look like. There is fantastic cooperation between villages and villages, especially the larger NGOs. What kind of competition? I don't know what he meant. Mr Kwitek of PiS claims that you wanted to introduce these diets twice, asking what happened now that PSL is coming back with this topic. Mr President, I reply to what happened. The Polish People's Party has a new President, who is also president of the club. With us, it's possible. A new vision, new intentions, also new ideas that we are putting forward to the High House. Mr Kilian of the PiS claims that we are introducing etatism. Mr President, I don't think you understand what etatism is, because I absolutely do not think that what we propose in the project has any signs of stagism. Mr Marek Sowa asked if it was not so that the law on local government already defines everything, so why create some solutions that will sort things out with the local government. I agree with you that this is not what one of the previous speakers said, that the Municipal Government Act regulates everything. It does not regulate everything, leaves many gaps that our project would complete comprehensively. There is absolutely no duplication of rules here, only their complementary addition. Mr Kalet, as usual, in a flowery language... [[Simple.]] ...he accuses us of hypocrisy, ignorance, it's about giving an order here to the PSL government to raise their wages. Mr President, if you knew what a local government is - I'm afraid you don't know... [[More than you.]] If you knew the rules of government, you'd know that there are people in the government from PSL... [[I'm afraid so.]] ...and the people of PiS, but I'm not gonna say what you just said because I have respect for them. Do you know what respect is? I don't think you know. There are people on the left, on the right. If you knew what the government is running, you wouldn't be telling them to give orders. [[Suggestions.]] I would've been there for you. He said something different, Mr Kalet, that unfortunately, from your mouth this hypocrisy has fallen a lot, because it is no one but your leaders, the mouth of the candidate for Prime Minister, Mrs Beata Szydło, who talked about not wrapping up local Poland. A great tool for the fact that not to fold local Poland is the bill that we present. The idea and a good solution to counteract the collapse of local Poland is to strengthen the role of the settlements that we carry out. Mr Sachajko asked us how we thought to finance this. The source of funding is the budget. [[500+.]] It seems to me that the budget should support local development, the development of social capital is also a budgetary objective. Mr Kaczmarczyk, one of the last to ask why we are proposing this solution. Let me start by saying: it is worth complementing and supporting local government at the basic level. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, I wanted to thank you for discussing the project. Nevertheless, I hope that common sense will prevail with the representatives of the Sejm majority. I think you're going to mention those words you said in the election campaign, what you promised the people of rural areas. Leaders are an integral part of rural areas and the most effective leaders in rural areas are the leaders. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u384	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft law be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 28 hrs. 18 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] High Izbo! Dear Members, Tomorrow is the International Holocaust Remembrance Day. The General Assembly of the United Nations has chosen on 27 January the anniversary of the liberation of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau by the Red Army. The Nazi German extermination system has consumed millions of lives. Let's celebrate the victims' memory with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of General Mariusz Zaruski on the 150th anniversary of his birth (print No 1224). I'll read the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of General Mariusz Zaruski on the 150th anniversary of his birth. On 31 January marks the 150th anniversary of the birth of General Mariusz Zaruski, an outstanding soldier and fighter for Poland's independence, as well as a sailor, tavern, prosaic and poet. Mariusz Zaruski was born in Dumanov, Podol. In his youth he made a number of deep sea voyages. He was sent to Archangelsk in 1894 for his participation in the conspiracy of independence in Odessa. At the beginning of the 20th century in Zakopane he founded the Ski Section of the Tatra Society and in 1909. The Tatra Volunteer Emergency Service he led. He also made numerous first climbs to the mountain peaks. Mariusz Zaruski was active in the Union of Active Fighting. In August 1914 he joined the firing squad of Józef Piłsudski, fought in the ranks of the Polish Legions as an officer in the 1st Ulysses regiment. He then participated in the conspiracy within the Polish Military Organisation. After regaining independence he served in the Polish Army. As commander of the 11th Ulysses, he fought against the Bolsheviks at the front of the war. He was awarded the Order of Virtuti Militari. In 1924, he was appointed Brigadier General. After his retirement he worked in Gdańsk Pomerania in Yacht - Club. He was president of the Polish Sailing Union and captain of the Scout Schooner 'Zawisza Czarny'. In December 1939 he was arrested by the Soviets in Lviv, he was imprisoned in Kherson, where he died in April 1941 in a prison hospital. The life and activities of Mariusz Zaruski, his steadfast attitude and ardent patriotism, great merits for sailing and tathering are a role model for future generations of Poles. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland recognises that General Mariusz Zaruski deserves his country well. I ask Members to adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of General Mariusz Zaruski on the 150th anniversary of his birth. High Seym! One more memorial. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On 11 January this year. Dr. Bogdan Szucki, a soldier of the National Armed Forces, the founder and president of the National Armed Forces Soldiers Association, and the honorary president of this union, died. Awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland Mr Lech Kaczyński by the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 1241. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club has submitted a request to complete the agenda for a point containing information from the Minister for Justice of the Prosecutor General Zbigniew Ziebrara on the reasons for the withdrawal of proceedings on suspected crimes during the 82nd anniversary of the establishment of the National and Radical Camp, which took place on 16 April 2016. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the Minister for Justice of the Prosecutor-General Zbigniew Ziobra on the reasons for the withdrawal of the proceedings on suspected offences under Article. 256 § 1 and Art. 257 of the Penal Code during the celebration of the 82nd anniversary of the National and Radical Camp, which took place on 16 April 2016, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 177 voted against - 249, 9 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Bolesław Leśmian on the 140th anniversary of his birth and on the 80th anniversary of his death. We'll proceed with the vote. The Commission calls for a resolution as set out in the report in print No 1187. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on commemorating Bolesław Leśmian on the 140th anniversary of his birthday and on the 80th anniversary of his death, as proposed by the Committee on Culture and Media, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 437 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating Bolesław Leśmian on the 140th anniversary of his birth and on the 80th anniversary of his death. [[Applause]] We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Parliamentary draft law amending the law on cooperative savings and credit banks. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1191-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 January, 8 amendments were tabled at the second reading of the Public Finance Commission's draft law amending the law on cooperative savings and credit banks. All the amendments have been given a negative opinion by the Committee on Public Finance. These included: changes in the criteria which have predestined, according to the draft law, the inclusion of a given cash register into a small cash register, among others. by reducing the average annual number of members of the cash register to 3 000. against 10,000. included in the project. It was also proposed that a committee consisting of depositors should operate in small cash registers in view of the situation enshrined in the proposal that such decisions are taken in small cashiers by the board. Also a very important proposal - the idea was to reduce from 2 years to 1 year the period when the cash register does not meet the conditions that allow it to qualify for a small cash register, and after the end of the year it would have to submit these issues to the Financial Supervision Commission, according to the draft proposal. These are actually the most important amendments. In general, they tightened up the conditions that had to be met by the cashiers to be included in the small cash register, against the proposals proposed in the parliamentary project. All amendments were not supported by the members of the finance committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u386	Thank you very much. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of the draft Law No. 1191. The additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. Amendments 1 to 6 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks. In the 1st amendment to the added point 5 lit. b in Article. 1a applicants propose that the average annual number of cash register members in the last financial year should not exceed 3 000. persons. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitutional Tribunal held that the law introducing the supervision of KNF over the SKOKs was a constitutional law and that only at that time the SKOKs were subject to supervision of the KNF. At the same time, the Court held that simplified supervision methods could be applied to small cash registers and therefore also through the National Bank, but it did not specify what these small cash registers were. In this bill, it is proposed that small money should be money that does not exceed 10,000. Members. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is still a very high number, because the point is that small money can have simplified terms, because there is a genuine bond, people know each other, work in one place, in one company or in one parish. And to go to that risk today that there will be as much as 10,000. Members, it's like ignoring all the bad experiences we've had with the money. Let me remind you that after you've taken the money, [[♪ The bell ♪]] by supervision of the KNF 40 out of 52 cash needed repair programmes and we had to add PLN 5 billion from the guarantee fund to the rescue of deposits. I'm asking you why you're introducing such a far-reaching limit for small money, if it's enough for 3,000. And that would be the same number of nine cash that would fit in because between 3 and 10,000...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u388	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u389	...there's no money at all. So why are you raising the limit so much? Isn't three enough? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u390	Thank you, sir. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u391	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! The Members of the applicant continue to convince us that this is a trivial matter, which concerns small cashiers, which are basically mostly in good financial condition. But no one today assures Poles that the money will not start sharing in a strange way so that they will observe the direct supervision of the KNF. No one is able to assure Poles that the assets will not be transferred from one cash register to another. That's why I have the opportunity to ask, Minister, why this gap? Today it's supposed to be small money, the biggest money that's going to be covered by these changes, has $3,000. members, less than 2,800. Why are we leaving a $7,000 gap? Members? This amendment is intended to put an end to this gap and I ask for its support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u392	A representative of the applicants, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, shall speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u393	Mr. Marshal! It is important here that the High Chamber carefully takes into account a very important element - that the small cash register is not only paid to the size, number of members, but to the balance sheet total. And that's the conjunction. To be small, it's not enough to be 3, 5 or 20,000. Humans, only the balance sheet total must not exceed 20 million PLN. And it's decisive if there's going to be 600 or 5,000. or 8. I understand the noble intentions of the proposal, but by rejecting this proposal, the finance committee behaved very wisely. Rejection of this amendment does not increase the risk at all. Once again, small money is one that doesn't exceed 10,000. This is impressive and indeed the facts are what you said, but let us not forget, on the contrary, that the low, very low balance sheet total is the balance sheet total, which is the ceiling of the smallest of all cooperative banks operating in Poland. The largest amount of money may not be greater than the smallest cooperative bank. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u394	Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 203 voted against - 233, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment of the applicant by adding paragraph. Article 3 10 propose that, in the case of a small cashier, the bond referred to in this provision should not consist solely of membership in the cashier. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u395	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! When we were working on this bill, we talked for a long time about bonds. It is an element of the Act on SKOKs, which in practice is simply celebrated by all SKOKs. The bill assumes that the members of the cash register should have a bond, e.g. work in one establishment or membership of the association. Today the SKOKs operate in such a way that the only bond that connects the members of the SKOKs is belonging to a given SKOK and beside it a functioning association. And that's a way to circumvent the bill. Today we held a close three-hour meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on the subject of the bankruptcy of Wołomin SKOK and everyone wondered how it was possible that 85 thousand. The members of the SCC of Volomin were connected by any bond. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's get this fiction out of the way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u396	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 163 voted against - 260, 12 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment of the applicant by adding paragraph. Article 3 22 propose that a small credit committee should consist exclusively of depositors. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 174 voted against - 260, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 60a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 174 voted against - 262, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the inserted article. 62g paragraph. The first sentence of the first sentence of paragraph 3 shall be proposed by the applicant that the cashier loses the status of a small cashier if it does not meet the conditions referred to in that provision for 1 financial year. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. There were 198 votes against - 232, 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 62h. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 171 voted against - 262, two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the added point 8a in Article. 81. 2 of the Accounting Act of the applicant proposes to delete the words "and the National Cooperative Savings and Credit Casino'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted... I haven't finished reading. Oh, I'll be right out. 441 Members voted. The vote was 175, against - 232, with 34 Members holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 146 voted against - 229, with 66. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, you will be asked questions. Member of Izabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The bill that the entire PiS club is about to raise their hands for is proof that you care about keeping muddy water in the SKOKs and around the SKOKs. President Sasin, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, said that the committee of inquiry on the SKOKs requested by the Civic Platform was: a hammer at the SKOK. Well, Mr Sasin, it was to be a hammer for frauds in the SKOKs, also for those frauds who awarded you a prize in the form of a statuette. [[Applause]] Therefore, the Civic Platform, which has nothing to hide in the case of the Vołomin SKOK, will submit a request for a committee of inquiry in the case of Wołomin SKOK. And your position on this matter will be a litmus paper in your honesty. Because the thing is, the Civic Platform is defending the members of the SKOKs, not the cheats in the SKOKs. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u398	Mrs... [[Voice from the room: There is no correction.]] Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club, is reporting. Member of the Commission in a moment, but in question mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u399	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This amendment, which we will now vote on, is abolishing the direct supervision of the KNF on this part of the SKOKs. As I said, this is a kind of loophole that we're going to create in the system and that can be used for completely different purposes than the lack of supervision of small SKOKs. But for these numbers to sound in your ears from morning to night: 7 SKOKs have fallen, 5 others have taken over the banks just because they didn't fall. The sum of the money paid out from the Banking Guarantee Fund is PLN 4300 million. Mr. President received the title of Man of Liberty yesterday from the SKOK community. As I understand it, this title is for freeing SKOKs from financial supervision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u400	Mr Jacek Sasin, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor. [[But in what mode?]] [[Voice from the room: Corrections.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u401	Questions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the Member of the applicant: Is it true that this law, which we are currently pursuing and which I hope we will be adopting in a moment, does not remove any supervision of the SKOKs? This surveillance will continue to be effective, much more effective than it was... [[Member in what way?]] ...in the reign of the Civic Platform and the PSL, because you forgot Mrs Leszczyn, who was so eager to quote me just now, to quote another statement from me when I said that the SKOK Wołomin scandal lasted at the best when Mrs Leszczyn was the Vice Minister of Finance... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...and when the head of the KNF was also your man... [[Is that a question?]] ...Mr. Jakubiak, who didn't respond to the transportation, the transportation of money from the SKOKs, from Wołomin. [[Applause]] If today the Member resembles the statuette that was handed to me, I propose... [[And the question?]] The question was at first, Madame. [[Are you guys starting again?]] And I suggest you ask your fellow MEP Rosati because he... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...he didn't get the statuette, only the money from the SKOK Volomin, the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u402	A representative of the applicants, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u403	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be better if we joined forces to pursue those who really stole this money more effectively. [[Applause]] It must be said that in the case of Amber Gold, and in the case of the SKOK case - we had a very good meeting of the finance committee today - there is something to think about. On the other hand, let us not lose our strength or energy for vain attacks that are really meaningless. I understand that thematically the whole discussion can be converted into a discussion about SKOKs. The political issue, we know what's going on. On the other hand, this law is limited and is a key issue, i.e. enforcement of the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal. And she's doing it. If someone is so smart, they'll stand up and tell you how to perfectly express it, that you should limit the scale of supervision and control... We propose that this check be carried out by the SKOK National Fund, but it is not true that the knot and cord are cut off with the Financial Supervision Commission. The Financial Supervision Commission retains the right of entry, entry and control on this subject. Let's not do that kind of demagogy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u404	Member Isabella Leszczyna shall be reported as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u405	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Sasin did not understand what I said. Mr President, I wanted to say exactly that Law and Justice prevented supervision of the SKOKs by 2013 and in 2013 and 2014 the Financial Supervision Commission... [[Who had the majority at the time?]] ...She's been studying. SKOK-i on the basis of falsified financial statements by auditors employed in the SKOKs. Therefore, it was impossible to detect previously the scandal of Wołomin and others, the bankruptcy of other SKOKs. [[You should've done the job.]] Mr Suski, SKOK Volomin, let me remind you, he fell in 2014. I would like to remind you that KNF has only had supervision since 2013, on the basis of falsified financial statements. If you hadn't hindered supervision, if you hadn't blocked supervision, and if this supervision had been introduced as we wanted in 2009, then there would have been no scandal concerning neither Wołomin nor other SKOKs, there would have been no 4.5 billion from the pockets of the Polish taxpayer who sailed to the SKOKs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u406	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1191, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Twenty-one Members abstained in voting 245 against 176. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on cooperative savings and credit banks and certain other laws. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1223. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This change in the bill shows that PO-PiS is doing great. We have here a typical example of the fact that all the forces in this parliament except one, unfortunately not the largest, have only agreed to support large corporations and to support the quiet nationalization made by the state piers, because that is what it serves. This change is designed to ensure that all small investors do not even know when they will lose their influence in a quiet and peaceful manner. This law is so that the state piers can quietly and quietly swallow other entities. It's not a good bill. Repeal of the Article 72 would only make sense if it concerned a general reconstruction of the majorization call system. We don't do that. We remove the obstacle, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who was protecting small investors. It's not deregulation. This is a cashier's heist. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u408	The question is asked by Mr Piotr Uściński, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u409	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm more of an applicant's representative, not a question. I wanted to give you an answer. This amendment is deleted by the article. 72 law, which is an article in the current state of our economy, is dead in the current state of the stock exchange and does not really protect small investors in any way. What you are talking about is not working in this way, it is just an unnecessary obstacle, it makes it difficult de facto liquidity on the stock exchange and makes it difficult for our national companies to develop. So that the removal of the article. 72 will be beneficial for the national economy, for our companies of the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u410	Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has also come forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u411	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, what the Member has said is not entirely true, but fear is justified. This law generally deregulates certain things on the capital market, which is a positive change for the average market participant. I have one question to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Is this law being introduced to easily nationalise companies in which shares have open pension funds? Is it made so that, in the liquidation of OFE, the State easily acquires shares in a large package in private companies? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u412	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1223, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 376, against - 35, with 26. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Patent Advocates. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1208. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1208, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 438 voted in favour, no one voted against, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the patent attorneys' bill. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1152-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Paweł Lisiecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u413	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report on print No 1152-A of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity, contained in the print No 807. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering the amendment from print No 1152-A to the draft law at its meeting on 26 January 2017, requests that the High Sejm adopt this draft law together with the amendment. The amendment concerns transitional provisions and causes the draft laws to be dealt with on existing principles, in accordance with the lex retro non agit principle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u414	Thank you very much. In an additional report, as we have heard, the committee is presenting an amendment. We'll vote for her first. In this amendment, applicants shall propose in the following Article. 1a introduce a transitional provision in the draft law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is raised by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u415	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the applicants. If the essence of the proposed changes is the desire to relieve the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, the smallest ones to develop better to create a higher percentage of GDP, then I have a question for the Minister of the applicant: Why did you not try to convince the Minister of Finance to reduce the burden on the sector? Like half the ZUS, 30% or taxes. You are taking apparent actions that in the proposed law you want to analyse the impact on the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises of the proposed changes. It's a smoke screen. Nothing really changes. Why do you want to change things so nothing changes? It's already been done. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's already been done, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u416	A representative of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera, Secretary of State, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These are not sham actions, because this is a bill which implements the request of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, those who asked the President to do so. They asked that each project should contain information relevant to medium and small businesses on the impact of the regulation on these companies after the adoption of this law. That is why this proposal was submitted by the President and I would ask on behalf of the President to support this amendment, which is a rule of law, that these rules will apply after the entry into force of the law, and that those projects which have been notified so far will be on their rights. It is a project that will certainly increase information for these entrepreneurs, and information is today one of the most important goods on the market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u418	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 274, against - 137, 29 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Ms Margaret Janyska, the Civic Platform Club, submitted a question before the vote on the entire draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the Presidential proposal for amendments to the Law on the Freedom of Business is only intended because it does not contain mechanisms that would lead to the objective of adapting the draft laws and regulations to the specificities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In principle, the intention is good and, I believe, no one will question it today, but in practice it will remain merely an intention. And here I have a question for the representative of the President: are you not concerned that, because of what I was just talking about, the majority of the government will disregard this law, for example, because the President has not so far questioned an irregularity in Parliament's lawmaking, and these were among others. Non-constitutional provisions, restriction of economic freedom, restriction of the right to own or lack of consultation? In order to assess the credibility of this intention, it is also important that, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that, while this project was in Parliament, Mr President simultaneously signed an illegally adopted budget for 2017... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u420	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u421	...and the budget undoubtedly results, has an impact on the activity...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u422	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u423	...micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u424	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 807, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 439 against - 2, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on Freedom of Business. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in addition. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. [[Objection.]] Objection? [[Yeah, we're voting.]] Could the Member present this objection and justify it? Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Which committee, then?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u425	Dear Marshal, I don't know how to lower it. It is extremely necessary to direct this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture, when we are talking about the proposed enforcement arrangements, because it is not possible to execute in full, which seeks to satisfy the claim, because the obstacle is, among other things, an obstacle. the provisions of the Land Act, and it is worth discussing this problem together with the Agriculture Commission, if we want a good solution from the Sejm. There can be no law on land that blocks the recovery of claims as an obstacle to recovery. This is not about the mass buy-out of the land, it is about satisfying the claims of people, micro-, small entrepreneurs and for this reason this solution is needed and this discussion is needed. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u426	I mean, I understand that you are in favour of adding the bill to the agricultural committee, right? [[Yes, sir.]] In other words, according to the scenario presented to the State. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of additional referral to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the draft law No 1185 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. There were 179 votes against, 234 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The question is raised by Marcin Pampuch, a modern club. [[Mirosław.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u427	Dear Marshal, Mirosław, maybe not Marcin. High Izbo! Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u428	I'm sorry, yes, Mirosław. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u429	Is it true that the helplessness of the state, the theoretical state, and the prosecution of criminals must be ended with full severity? The answer is one - definitely yes. However, in the case of this law, under the cover of the fight against crime and the need to implement EU directives, it is only possible to introduce any law, bad, unclear rules leading to the collection of ownership of enterprises in the context of the confiscation extended to honest and hard-working entrepreneurs. A law that greatly extends the surveillance capabilities of entrepreneurs and ordinary citizens by all uniformed services. A law which grants uniformed services unlimited access to data protected by different types of secrecy, including banking, insurance and treasury secrecy without any judicial review and without any justification. Effective prosecution of criminals Modern says - yes, to the wrong law definitely - no. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u430	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in print No 1186, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 69 voted against - 355, 16 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 21 February 2017. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Environmental Law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. Members are asked questions. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a purely staff law that allows at a rapid pace to exchange supervisory boards, also management boards, but mainly supervisory boards, in 16 voivodship environmental funds. If it is not true that you are referring to the non-constitutional deprivation of local communities, regional impact on the shaping of environmental policy in regions and the use of financial instruments for this purpose, that it is only about savings, as you mention in the explanatory memorandum, then I would like to ask what savings Poles have for the exchange of human resources in the case of at least thousands of posts for your poor, filled posts without any criteria. What's in it for us when it comes to savings? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The very fact of arbitrary putting up your people is to determine savings. So how much did the Poles make on this HR exchange? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u432	Thank you. Mr Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u433	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Voivodeship environmental and water management funds, ladies and gentlemen, are several billion zlotys per year, which is why the ruling party has been tempted to change this law. By the way, he plans to exclude independent environmental organisations, which are the salt in the eye of Minister Jan Szyszko, who had previously influenced the distribution of these funds. By changing supervisory boards, he completely subordinates these funds to government administration. It's just centralization. Art. 15 of our constitution says: The territorial system of the Republic of Poland ensures the decentralisation of the public authority. Are you aware that you are violating the fundamental principles of the Constitution? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u434	Thank you. Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a moment, the High Sejm will decide on the fate of the amendment of the Environmental Law, a project in which there is not a single word about environmental protection, but about nationalisation and the loss by voivodship funds of environmental protection of the self-government legal person. The draft of this law will result in the chaos of competence and inability to operate funds that have served all categories of self-government. Why didn't you make this change in the government project so that it could be consulted with municipalities, powiats and voivodships? What were you afraid of? The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote against this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u436	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1127 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 187 voted against - 232, 20 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The questions are raised by Members. Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u437	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Before bringing this project to the Sejm, you put it to consultation, among others. to the National Judicial Council, to individual appeals, as well as to judicial associations. They have analysed, based on their own experience and knowledge, hoping that comments will be taken into account. All these opinions are negative. They indicate the reasons why your project is contrary to the constitution, it is non-functional and will not speed up financial decisions. The Supreme Court also confirmed these observations. Minister, has one point been taken into account? If not, then why did you consult? For appearances? Because it's a duty? After all, all the opinions that have been drawn up, and there are a lot of them, raise the same allegations. They're clear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for your project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u438	Thank you. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, maybe it's worth finding out what's in this project. [[What about the agency?]] What your colleagues have invented, because it might interest you to think that if they don't have different places to fill in the county, they'll take what's in the courts. And they want to take the positions of court directors, which is about 400 positions on a national scale, in every district court, in every district court and appellate court. Any director of the court can be dismissed now, after the entry into force of this law, day by day, without giving a reason. You lower the rank of court directors who cease to be judicial authorities, become subordinates to the Minister of Justice as their eye and ear, governor or spy in every court. Is that really what this is about? Why are you shutting down the jury competitions? You want to own what's most important, that's administration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the judiciary. This is a very bad project. Think about it if you really want to. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: We want to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u440	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u441	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] in the justification of this bill we have heard that this is a solution consisting in the seat of the directors of the courts by the Minister of Justice - without a competition, without anything, practically at the discretion - this is a wonderful way to improve the work... [[Voice from the hall: Elewarr it is.]] ...the dimension of justice, to improve the work of the courts. I would ask a representative of the Ministry of Justice to give some proof of how this solution is supposed to bring this supposed improvement, because I, the ladies and gentlemen of the High Izbo, do not know such a case yet, that somewhere, in any organization, in any economic entity, would make anything better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u442	Please. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question as to whether, at the moment, this is what the great reform of our judicial system is about. [[Applause]] Is that how we will ensure justice, because the people of this country are waiting for justice. And what do we give them? That the minister will ensure that the judge who decides not as he should, does not have a chair, has an old computer or, with apology, lacks equipment. This is not a judicial reform. This is the wrong way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u444	At the moment, Deputy Minister of Justice Patrick Jak asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u445	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Seym! There's just been a complaint here that this draft law is lowering the rank of court directors. I would like to say, High Sejm, that no one has reduced this rank as much as those unparty directors in Cracow or Wrocław. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Or in Gdansk.]] I would like to say that such gigantic thieving is the Polish state's hand that hasn't captured such a gigantic thieving in a long time. [[Go ahead, go ahead.]] [[More than in SKOKs?]] I just want to say one more thing. The Gangrene of the Polish justice system, especially the Polish judiciary, is the chronicity of proceedings. In Polish courts, even in the simplest proceedings, five years or longer are waiting for the decision to be decided. [[What does the director have to do with this?]] All business organizations say that this is one of the most serious problems of the Polish state, that is why the Polish state, therefore the Polish economy cannot develop so quickly, because the Polish justice system, the Polish judiciary, is clogged. As judges are asked, why is this happening, why this chronicity, the judges often answer themselves, because they have too many responsibilities, because you impose too many responsibilities on us, including administrative ones. Here's a prescription. The recipe is that now the President of the Court will no longer have to take an interest in administration, finances. He will be able to concentrate on what is most important, namely case law. I will provide the High House with statistics that are shocking in my opinion. I don't know if you're all familiar with them. We have more than 10,000 in Poland. Judges. It's really a lot. This is one of the largest figures per citizen across the European Union, the High Sejm. I'd like to tell you that out of the 10,000. judges as many as 4,000. Judges are judges who perform certain functions. Imagine how the Polish judiciary is supposed to uncork, you could say. In a simple way. Instead of performing various functions, you should return to judgment. And this is one of the prescriptions. [[Applause]] To answer another question, whether this is a comprehensive judicial reform: of course it is not. [[Like minister, like prescription.]] This is one of the following elements that we are presenting to the High House, which we are trying to change the justice system by implementing the programme of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. I want to tell the High Sejm that there will be more projects since that question has already been asked. Here, for example. A gesture towards the Kukiz club. There you go. I'm all for that, too. [[Don't wave your hand.]] ...or are we in favour of a solution that says that once in a while judges should also feel that society is judging them. There you go, you were talking about the judges of peace. We're open to it. The problem is... [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] The problem is that the constitution needs to be changed in this regard, which is why the Prime Minister and Minister Zbigniew Ziebra's proposal came out of the mouth... [[Okay, okay.]] ...to put together a committee in the Sejm that will work out a good solution that we can then present to the High Sejm. That's why don't tell me nothing's going on. We reach out even to you when you criticize us so often. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Even to you...]] Because the most important thing for us is the Polish state, and for us the most important thing is to finally change the justice system and the judiciary. [[Applause]] In this respect, a great deal is changing. If that's the question, do you know if you know... [[Member of Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: State, no.]] How many judges have been expelled in the last nine years? Even though we had huge scandals at the time - judges on the phone, drunk judges, judges who were embarrassed in an extraordinary way. Do you know how many? Nine judges. High Seym! You can see this system isn't working. Hence the proposal to establish a disciplinary chamber in the Supreme Court, which will be independent of the judicial corporation. [[And how many ministers did you throw out?]] Therefore, please do not charge that nothing is happening in this regard, because there is a lot going on. And at the very end, because we are talking about the heads of the courts and the opinion of the National Judicial Council, the High Sejm, the National Judicial Council very strongly defended this arrangement of Krakow in the Court of Appeal in Krakow. Plus, what did it turn out to be? It turned out to be a giant corruption and thieving. [[Where? You guys are way out of line.]] And today I know why the state and the national court were against the judge's estate statements. I know why. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u446	Member of the Commission in the procedure of correcting, but you have not been mentioned, I am so sorry. [[But I don't need to be mentioned by name.]] I'm really sorry, because it's not known... [[Voice from the room: It wasn't.]] The corrigendum may refer to the speech of the speaker misquoted. [[Mr. Marshal, but...]] So I don't see the possibility. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1181, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. There were 199 votes against and 238 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the National Defence Committee on the government bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law contained in the report in print No 1203. The question is raised by Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A good idea, we respect the expectations of the veterans. I have a question for Minister Macierewicz. Minister, this bill, the Veterans Act, like every bill, has its host. This law is not hosted by the Ministry of National Defence, it is hosted by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You decided not to remember that, in fact, it is a great pity, because if you knew that you were not the host of this law, you would know that the Veterans' Office is a central office and not a social partner, also then you could assess the costs of this change, because the difference could reach PLN 100 million. My question is simple: Why do you not respect the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy? [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u448	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1203, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The vote was 441 against - 1 and 1 with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and postwar repression. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1189. The question is asked by Members. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u449	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! Is it true that during the work of this law, the government ignored not only the opinion of entrepreneurs, because the PiS governments have got us used to it, but also the opinions of the Government Legislative Centre and the Legislative Office of the Sejm showing that the penalty of 25 years in prison for VAT errors is incompatible with the constitutional principle of proportionality, is a drastic penalty, disproportionate to the offence? On the one hand, the government declares the facilitations for entrepreneurs and on the other hand introduces laws against entrepreneurs, which undermine the stability of business activity. No wonder, therefore, that according to the National Bank of Poland private companies do not want to invest, and wants to invest only every third entrepreneur, which is the worst result since 2008. Foreign investments decreased by 7,7% in the third quarter. Dear Members and Dear Members of the PiS, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now, come to your senses before the last entrepreneur moves his company abroad. [[To Madeira!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u450	Thank you, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u451	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Since 1 January this year, new tax rules have been introduced, which seal the VAT system to a large extent and introduce new, much higher sanctions for VAT fraud. Meanwhile, you are proposing to introduce draconian rules in the Penal Code on the counterfeiting of invoices. These rules do not seal the tax system, these rules make it possible to be punished regardless of the size of the losses in the revenue of the state budget or even if they are not at all. These provisions provide that even if someone has corrected his tax return, paid the right tax, paid the right sanctions, he may still be punished. Punishment goes back to 25 years - it's more than for the collective rape of a minor with cruelty or the same as for the overthrow of a constitutional body of the Treasury. Aren't you afraid that in this way you'll rather intimidate the various entrepreneurs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the rules are so complicated and there are a lot of stakes than you'll get any positive results from this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u452	There's a question. Minister Michał Wójcik answers the Member's question, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u453	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to correct a lot of false information that came up during the entire legislative process. This is one of the most important projects that will actually be adopted and will become a law in this parliamentary term. Because this is a project that really affects all of us, all of our country's citizens. [[It's the right word.]] It affects, yes, Mr President, because we are all being robbed, but the difference between us is that you have not responded to this for eight years, and we are preparing a project that meets the expectations of society as a whole. [[If you lock everyone up, you'll be alone.]] The first case, which is very important and needs to be corrected. This is not a project against entrepreneurs, against honest taxpayers. If he were against entrepreneurs, the business community, I would probably be one of the first people to protest against such solutions because I was involved in this environment for 20 years. This project is against gangs, organized crime groups. [[Applause]] We're not talking about stealing candy bars, we're talking about bringing out billions of dollars. On a yearly basis this is about PLN 40 to 60 billion. If this year we have a budget deficit of PLN 59 billion, then in theory we are a very rich country, theoretically. Only for eight years did you fight with poor people who could steal a candy bar because they were just hungry, and you didn't fight the mob. [[Stop...]] That's the brutal truth. [[Applause]] I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this instrument that was used... [[You'd be done with demagogy, really.]] ...it was a criminal tax code. What threat did he anticipate in the case of the most serious crimes? Because these are some of the most serious crimes we face every day. Penalty of 5 days imprisonment, maximum 5 years imprisonment, in exceptional circumstances, with exceptional sharpening - 10 years imprisonment. You are attacking a project in which, in an extraordinary way, we try to fight especially repressive punishments and do not run away from it, but the situation is very special. We are dealing with e.g. with tax carousels, for which it is not known where the business begins and where it ends and who is a pillar along the way. That's the brutal truth. The entire tax administration has to fight this, specialized judges and prosecutors. How do you want to fight? A tax code, daily rates and fines? It didn't work out. The problem is that economic growth has been in recent years, but unfortunately VAT revenues have been decreasing. And this is a very interesting, very interesting story. [[Keep it down, keep it down, we hear you.]] Fictitious invoices. [[Don't yell, Minister.]] That is why we anticipate, ladies and gentlemen, a drastic tightening of penalties. Firstly, in the Penal Code, because this is important, we predict that, in eligible cases, there will be between 3 and 15 years, in some cases eligible, between 5 and 15 years, and even 25 years of imprisonment. Where you were attacking, saying that there are situations where, in fact, the depletion of the State Treasury is small, real, we give a certain gateway. This is a minor case. And that is a very important issue. But for us, the most important thing is what's on the invoice, what's the value of the goods and services. Yes, sir, because we really want to fight this. It is not possible to fight this practice in such a way that the tax authority will first settle the case, and only later will the prosecution or the court handle the case, because proceedings are suspended, waited for months and sometimes for years. And that's the brutal truth. That is why, in exceptional circumstances, extraordinary laws need to be envisaged. And this is this extraordinary bill that actually seals the tax system. Let criminals fear the state, not the state of criminals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u454	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1189, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 238 votes against - 191 and 11 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 1216 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 171, against 263, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and, as I said, addressed the proposal to the agricultural committee. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law Rules introducing a law on the National Agricultural Support Centre. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject this proposal at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 1217 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 143 voted against - 291, with 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred the bill to the agricultural committee. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Councils and Councils and on the amendment of certain other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. The questions are raised by Members. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u455	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This draft law tabled by Members of the Polish People's Party responds to the demands of the Sołecki community for years. In fact, they are concerned with two issues: restoring legal entity and restoring the minimum financial economy. It must be said that this project is a good basis for us to hold such a debate, which is why I was very surprised to learn during the debate that Members of the Law and Justice have tabled a proposal to reject this project at first reading. I would therefore like to ask the applicant: Is it true that this bill gives the Council the opportunity to build links between residents? Is he building a community? Is it an entity of the state? Does it strengthen the role of the Chief? [[Yeah, that's right.]] Does it give you the possibility to run a minimum financial economy based on [[♪ The bell ♪]] not just the Soviet funds, but also other funds? [[Applause]] [[That's a good question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u456	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Why do you want to reject, at first reading, a project expected by local communities regulating the status of the Councils and Councils in the Republic of Poland? Are you against strengthening self-government, against building civil society, against applying the principle of subsidiarity, which provides for all decisions concerning local communities to be designated at the lowest level possible? The Civic Platform has a lot of comments and will make many amendments to this project, but let us give it a chance and direct it to work in committee so that we can work together on the best proposal that will serve our community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u458	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u459	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the law should be continued. The function of the Chief is very important for the proper functioning of the local community. The bill has a lot of mistakes, because right now, in this shape, it looks like a jackpot and titles. I do not know if you have heard - on my question, what money will be paid for the bankruptcy of the state, we have heard that it will be from the budget. My question to the Members of the applicants: From what department and how much reserve do you expect to pay the debts of bankrupt communities? [[Misiewicz's department.]] Second question. Who would perform these titanary functions as Count, Prince or any other? 'Cause the bill lets you in as a court of law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to establish smaller sub-units, that is, micro-counties, micro-reduces. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u460	Please. The question is asked by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, first of all, to all the opposition clubs for supporting this project. Question for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister used very often on this speaker the wording encouraging substantive work in Parliament, to dispute, but also to present her proposals; she spoke about the fact that the opposition is co-responsible for changes in Poland. This is a hand drawn out by the Polish People's Party, giving a good law strengthening self-government in Poland, strengthening small homelands, giving subjectivity to the Councils and Soviet Councils, giving them the opportunity to develop their localities, strengthening the sovereign, strengthening our compatriots in self-determination, in making up for themselves. This request, Prime Minister, for rejection is incomprehensible. Me and the PSL club are ready, in cooperation with all political formations, to take your attention as well. After all, without your voices, he will not pass in the end. But don't be afraid to debate on strengthening the role of the Chief, [[♪ The bell ♪]] our little country. The Prime Minister often repeated the slogan about bringing local Poland back in the election campaign. If you reject this project without discussion in the committee, it will be the beginning of the assembly of local Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u462	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will present the applicant's representative at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u463	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I'd like to address the questions that just came up. I agree with Mr Mark Owl, this law actually provides tools for rural areas to be given an additional boost to development, and it is not only, ladies and gentlemen, the High Izbo, the Prime Minister, in this infrastructure dimension, which shows how progress has been made in recent years, but also in this social dimension. We will all agree that rural areas also need to multiply this social capital significantly and dynamically. I answer Mr Sachaika's question. Mr President, really, it is necessary to have the courage and confidence that the Council, the Council, can rationally manage financial resources. We have nothing to fear from going bankrupt there. There's no such threat. And a reflection at the end of the general nature on this project. Well, in Parliament's work, in the work of the Sejm, these are moments when words collide with actions, in short, when sometimes beautiful often repeated words are verified. And today, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, this is the moment before you. Because the villagers, the chiefs, I think, remember very well the frequent visits of the Prime Minister to the chiefs, farmers, also very well remember the visits of the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, including the last one last year in Wierzchosławice. And together, I think, with us, Prime Minister, Mr President - briefly summing up - they speak to you, they ask how you will behave today, if you will then confirm what you have said. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u464	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no. 1137, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 234 Members voted against - 201, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Law Code of Administrative Procedure (print No 984) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that on the basis of Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing the draft law to the Extraordinary Committee on changes in the codifications for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 984, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 296 Members voted against - 136, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development on the implementation of the 2015-2019 programme of activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for the period of 18 November 2015 - 17 November 2016 (print No 1077) - vote. At its 33rd meeting, the Sejm listened to the report presented by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Jurgiel, and held a discussion in which he opposed the acceptance of the information. I will put to the vote a request for information. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the information contained in print 1077 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 233 Members voted against - 173, with 34. The Sejm has accepted the information. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: election of a member of the Court of State (prints 1179 and 1190). On the basis of the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on the Court of State and Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm should the term of office of a member of the Court of State expire, the Sejm shall make a supplementary choice. A group of Members has nominated Mr Bogusław Marian Banaszak as a member of the Court of State. I ask Mr Wojciech Sharama to present Mr Bogusław Marian Banaszak's candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Professor Bogusław Marian Banaszak was born in Wrocław in 1955. He is an ordinary professor at the University of Zielona Góra and dean of the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Zielona Góra and a professor at the State University of Vocational Education in Legnica. Since 2014, he has been head of the Department of Constitutional Law at the University of Zielona Góra. Between 1977 and 2014 he was employed as a scientific and educational worker at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Wrocław. In 1998 he received the title of professor of legal sciences. Between 1999 and 2014 Professor of the University of Wroclaw. Between 2002 and 2014 he headed the Department of Constitutional Law at the University of Wrocław. Member of the European Commission for Democracy by Law since April 2016 (so-called: The Venice Commission). Since April 2013, he has been a title member of the Independent Experts Group on the European Charter for Territorial Self-Government. Editor of the Law and Administration Review issued in Wrocław, Chairman of the Editorial Committee of the Legislative Review. Coordinator of the School of German Law and Polish Law in the years 2002-2006, member of the board of the University of Riga, director of the Higher School of Management and Banking in Wrocław, dean of the Faculty of Law, Administration and Economics, expert of the State Accreditation Board. Member of the correspondent of the Spanish Royal Academy of Moral Sciences and Political Sciences, member of the Committee of Legal Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences, member of the Human Rights Advisory Board at the Minister of Foreign Affairs in 2000/2001, Programme Council of the Centre for Election Studies and the International Advisory Directory of the American Biographical Institute. [[Game in the O.R.]] In the last few years, he has given over 120 lectures... [[Louder please.]] ...in many countries around the world: Germany, Austria, Portugal, Switzerland, Hungary, the United Kingdom, the United States. Author or co-author of nearly 100 papers... [[Voice from the room: Louder!]] ...in international scientific conferences. Author of over 300 scientific works, including monographs, textbooks, comments, studies and articles. Awarded with the Golden Cross of Merit in 2001, the Knight's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland, the German Federal Cross of Merit in the Vest, the Great Cross of Merit of the Republic of Austria, the Great Golden Badge of Honor for Merit for the Republic of Austria and the Austrian Honorary Cross of Science and Art of the first class. Doctor honoris causa University of Peczu - university is in Hungary. Awarded twice by the individual awards of the Minister of National Education for the textbook of the Constitutional Law and for the German edition of the Introduction to Polish Constitutional Law. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Bogusław Banaszak is a good candidate for a judge of the State Court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u466	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u467	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to submit a report on the proposal for the election of a supplementary member of the Court of State, print No 1179. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights after considering the above mentioned The proposal at the meeting on 11 January 2017 and the discussion decided to give a positive opinion on the candidacy of Mr Bogusław Marian Banaszak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u468	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that you have come forward to discuss this item on the agenda. Is anyone else checking in? I can't see. [[Yeah, I'm still...]] I suggest that the Sejm listen to... [[Yet, yet, Mr. Marshal.]] ... 3-minute statements on behalf of clubs and wheels. I don't hear any objections. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will, of course, vote for the candidacy of Professor Bogusław Marian Banaszak as a member of the Court of State. The professor is an outstanding specialist in constitutional law, he has a huge scientific achievements, he is a valued and well-liked academic teacher. In recent years, he has created a law department at the University of Zielona Góra, the dean of which. At this university he leads the Cathedral of Constitutional Law. Giant scientific achievements and huge experience guarantee that Prof. Bogusław Banaszak is a good candidate for a judge of the State Court. The Law and Justice Club therefore supports this candidacy and will vote in favour of this candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u470	Please. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u471	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to give you sad but true information that the Civic Platform will not support this candidacy. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Oh, dear!]] And it is not even what the Member who presented his candidacy was not talking about, the subject of doctoral dissertation, which compared the socialist systems of the Asian countries, because it is 1983 and every scientific work has to start from somewhere. So Mongolia, Vietnam, North Korea are such, I understand, good roots for contemporary Poland in the performance of the PiS state. But that's not the point, ladies and gentlemen. The reason is more important, the reason is mostly about an unexplained case that is shadowed by this person. But the case of the alleged plagiarism is explained in court in civil proceedings. On the other hand, the worst thing that you continue to do in the High House is to pay your political debts very important, important from the point of view of your functioning with offices or functions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in exchange for favourable legal opinions, you have cast the position of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, for a curial legal opinion in which the doctor claims, contrary to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, that the President of the Republic may not take the oath from the legally elected judges of the Tribunal. Your candidate to the Court of State has also become famous for his extremely curious opinion on the Constitutional Tribunal. And now the PiS for these opinions, for these actions, pays a debt of gratitude very important from the point of view of the functioning of the State's posts. When your political debts ended, we had an opportunity to observe yesterday. [[Political corruption.]] It is the PiS country, which cannot even act theoretically because it follows the rules of traffic, paying the political debts of one of the ministers, which poses a great threat to road traffic and traffic collision, after which some people are injured... [[Voice from the room: Come on.]] ...and two more go to the hospital. [[About.]] Your symbol has become Pisieczczy and Misiecz, and I regret that you are dragging into your game, anything to say, a good lawyer, who unfortunately [[♪ The bell ♪]] ends up the way he ends up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u472	Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Court of State is one of the most important institutions of the state, although rather rarely used. However, there is no doubt that, of course, members of the Court of State should remain a reliable ethical and moral compass, characterised by impartiality and independence. I think we'll all agree on that. However, in the case of your professor, the flexibility of views is astonishing. Well, back in the '80s. In his doctoral work, Bogusław Banaszak described the advantages of socialist states in Asia. In 2010, Professor Banaszak was for a moment a candidate for the Constitutional Tribunal as notified by the Civic Platform, and at the end of 2015 he recalled himself as the author of a legal opinion for the Office for Sejm Analysis on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by the Sejm of the VII term of office. In a commentary on the 2009 Constitution, the Professor wrote that the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[Keep your voice down. Don't scream.]] ...does executive functions in relation to the Constitution's provisions and must comply with it. However, in the above-mentioned opinion commissioned at the end of 2015 by the ruling PiS Prof. Banaszak claims that the rules of the Rules of Procedure serve to clarify constitutional norms, possibly even filling existing gaps in the Constitution. These are the Himalayas of legal absurdity. However, this opinion was sought by the professor to justify the unlawful resolution of the PiS on the appeal of judges elected to the Constitutional Tribunal by the Sejm of the previous term of office. The flexibility of the professor's opinion and legal opinions is astonishing. There are more examples of sudden, curial returns in expertise. Before Mr Mariusz Kaminski was pardoned by President Andrzej Duda, the professor was in the position that the pardon was applicable. only to those who are convicted of a final sentence. After being pardoned, he changed his mind and felt that the law of grace served the President also for illegal judgments. It's hard to resist the impression that a professor is like a reliable political compass. His political sympathies and legal opinions will always indicate the direction where the current power, jobs and positions are. Finally, the last question - plagiarism. The Court of First Instance established that Professor Banashak had committed a plagiarism, and ordered a payment of $25,000. in the title of redress for violation of copyright, in particular the right to the authorship of the work and the integrity of its content and form. Although this judgment is not final because an appeal has been brought, it should be asked whether such a person has the appropriate characteristics that we would expect from a candidate to the Court of State. I would like to ask the politicians of the PiS, you have a majority, you can choose everyone: Are you really not able to find a better candidate, a candidate who would not raise such a serious controversy? I'm sorry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are not Professor Banashak. The Modern Posel Club will vote against the appointment of Professor Banaszak as a member of the Court of State. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Madeira. To Madeira.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u474	The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. 31... But I'm sorry, sir, we've already moved on to the vote. ...pt. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall elect the members of the Court of State by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Bogusław Marian Banaszak as a member of the Court of State would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 240 votes against - 165 and 20 Members abstained. I state that by an absolute majority the Sejm has chosen Mr Bogusław Marian Banaszak as a member of the Court of State. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 1241). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No. 1241, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 404, against - 3 Members, with 10 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 17 hours 20 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. We have exhausted the agenda of the 34th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u475	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to dedicate my statement to the activities of the National Emergency Service for Victims of Violence in the Family of the Blue Line. In January this year. On the website of the National Emergency Service for Victims of Violence in the Family, the Blue Line has appeared a notice about the suspension of the activity of the Phone Helpdesk for the Victims of Crime conducted under the number. 22 66870 00, as well as an email clinic. The suspension was the result of a lack of funding from the Ministry of Justice. The terms of the competition were formulated so that it was not possible to obtain funds for the telephone advice of specialists. The Resort required specialist assistance to be provided in direct contact with the victims. How, then, should the victim find out what help he is entitled to? The National Emergency Service for Victims of Violence in the Family has been in operation for over 20 years. It has carried out tasks in the broad sense of combating family violence and education in this area. The Blue Line provided about 6 000 aid each year. persons: women, children, the elderly, but also those with disabilities due to illness, disability or underdevelopment. This telephone had databases that allow for detailed information on the locations where assistance can be obtained. For many victims, this helpline is the only available source, and in fact it was the only available source of support and reliable information. They are people with disabilities, sick or living in small towns. I ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziebrara, to consider this matter and restore the work of the telephone and e-mail counsellor of the Blue Line. I believe that it will be restored and that it will help many people who experience violence in the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u476	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Kostusz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u477	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This week, as every year on January 26, we celebrate the Polish Transplant Day. This festival was established on the anniversary of the first successful kidney transplant in Poland, which was held at the Clinic of the Surgical Medical Academy in Warsaw in 1966. It was then 621. such a procedure in the world. The primary problem of Polish transplantology is too few organs to be transplanted in relation to the number of people who are expecting transplants. Hospitals show varying activity when it comes to reporting potential donors. It is estimated that at national level it is only about 2% all the dead. To increase the chance of waiting for transplants, hospitals should increase their activity in the process of identifying potential donors. A report on organ availability for transplantation, which outlines the multi-stage nature of transplant procedures, reveals a number of information. The main conclusion of the report shows how much more to do. Transplantology in Poland as a field of medicine is very well developed and controlled. It is crucial for the matter to prepare medical personnel for proper conduct in order to confirm death and to inform competently about the death of a loved one and the opportunity for another to obtain an organ from a deceased person. It is equally important to place increased emphasis on educational activities in this area. Each organ transplant has its source in a decision of great ethical value, a decision to selflessly sacrifice a part of its own body for the sake of the health and welfare of another human being. That is the nobleness of this act, which is an authentic act of love. These are the words of the great Pole, the Pope, St. John Paul II, who described organ donation to save human life. That is why I am appealing today to the ladies and gentlemen of Members, and also through you, through you, to all the people of Poland, for involvement and promotion of the idea of transplantology. An excellent example of commitment is the fulfilment of a declaration of will expressing the consent of the person who has such a document to receive organs from it. I would like to stress that a declaration of will is only an information print and its signature should be a reason for discussion among family, friends, friends, to express their will and their willingness to give organs after death. Therefore, by promoting the noble idea of saving lives by handing over organs to transplants, I encourage you to sign a declaration of will that can be downloaded today in many places on the Internet. In addition, on the occasion, I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health to place greater emphasis on the issue of transplantology. It is impossible to ignore the fact that the seventh year of the National Programme for the Development of Transplant Medicine, established in the years of the Civil Platform's rule, has just begun. The government of Donald Tusk has established a programme in which over the next 10 years a total of PLN 45 million will be spent annually on transplant activities. I would like to ask Minister Radziwiłłła to present a report on the functioning of the programme with particular attention to information on how these funds are available and extensive information on future prospects by the end of 2020. From this point on, I would like to sincerely thank all doctors, nurses and all medical staff who take care of patients and their families. By taking this opportunity, I wish you perseverance, success, satisfaction in fulfilling your daily duties and every success. Let the feeling of a well-fulfilled duty to patients be a source of satisfaction and joy for you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u478	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u479	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! As a Member of the Gdansk Region, as last year, I have also tabled amendments to the budget this year. Last year, among others. Thanks to this it was succeeded e.g. get money for the first stage of construction of the bridge to Sobieszewska Island. This year I tabled six amendments on important investments for our region. Unfortunately, all the amendments of the opposition members, ours, were rejected by the PiS at the meeting of the finance committee. Even those Members of the PiS, who live in our district, have had a negative opinion, although they have promised to support the region's most important investments. I understand that we are in a minority, but each of us, Members of the opposition, has entered the Sejm thanks to the support of a large number of people and we would like to fulfil our duty to work fairly for our region. Unfortunately, the PiS has blocked all of our amendments by adopting a budget that is not in accordance with procedures, even denying us the opportunity to defend our own amendments and ask questions. We protested against such treatment and such adoption of the budget. This may result in, for example, in addition to the inability of us to defend our own amendments, which are the most important investments in our region, yet far-reaching consequences, e.g. blocking EU funds. What if the European Commission refuses to grant due to the dubious adoption of the budget? I would like to present to you the next investment that I wanted to pursue during the adoption of the budget and which I was not allowed to do. First of all, the construction of the metropolitan ring road of the Tricity. I applied for 6 million PLN for design work. The current ring road of the Tricity no longer fulfils its role, as housing estates were built along it. It makes it a city street. During the summer, it happens to pass over 100,000. vehicles daily. There is this road saved in the government's plan to build national roads and motorways, while there are great doubts as to whether it will be implemented. The second important topic I would like to pursue is the reconstruction of the historic bridge in Tczew through the Vistula. I was asking for PLN 47 million to complete this investment. This beautiful, historic 19th-century bridge - and the first railway crossing through the Vistula in Poland - must be renovated as soon as possible. The previous government secured the money for the first stage of the renovation, which was already completed. The second stage has not yet been paid in the budget to complete the reconstruction. This bridge is important for communication, because it shortens the journey for residents on both sides of the Vistula River, despite the fact that it is really our historic, beautiful monument. Thirdly, the next investment for me is the construction of the communication route Nowa Kielnieńska - Nowa Walkowa - Green Boulevard. I've been running for money for design preparation for environmental decision-making. This route is very necessary as the only route from Gdansk and Sopot to the future metropolitan ring road of the Tricity, but also as the only effective way to unload car traffic in the Gdansk district of Osowa. Besides, only such a solution will protect the historic post-Cistercian buildings of Old Olives, because this route would then avoid Olives. It is a route with a tunnel under the Pachołek, which is very expensive. We are aware that we are currently taking advantage of the last such large allocation of EU funds, so if not now, maybe never, which is why I think we should all seek it. The fourth investment, which I believe is important for the region, is the construction of a bridge drawn to Sobieszewska Island, stage two. Last year, a joint action managed to secure funding from the central budget for the first stage, but not for stage two. The next thing is the construction of the Gdansk Starogard ring road: design works, construction in design and build mode. And the S6 route, a very important stretch from the metropolitan ring road of the Tri-City to Koszalin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All these investments I am looking for are very important for our region. I hope that some of them will be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u480	Thank you. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u481	Mr. Marshal! I dedicate my statement to the feast of Gdansk Starogard, Pomerania. Dear Pomerania people! Dear citizens of the Old Gdansk Gdansk! On January 29, 1920 the town of Starogard was remembered as very cold. However, this did not disturb the crowds of the people of Starogard, who had long-awaited freedom after 148 years of Prussian rule. The atmosphere of those events connected with the arrival of Polish troops under General Józef Haller was very hot. After almost one-and-a-half years of captivity, Polish speech was again heard on the streets, smiles on the faces of the inhabitants, and tears of emotion flowing down the cheeks. Ladies and gentlemen, after the end of World War I, after the military defeat of the central states, a new political order has been established in Europe after the fall of Tsar Russia at the peace conference in Versailles. An extremely important accent of these talks was the message of President Wilson of the United States, one of 14 points of which was the issue of rebirth of the Polish state within its ethnic borders with free access to the sea. The Polish National Committee played a very important role in discussions on Poland's rebirth with its leading politicians: Roman Dmowski and outstanding pianist, later Prime Minister Ignacy Paderewski at the head. Under the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles, Poland was reborn by the Pomeranian Corridor, which connected Polish lands with the sea. Starogard was also in the corridor territory. The Pomerania population was expecting rapid implementation of the Treaty provisions. The executioner of these provisions turned out to be a gene. Józef Haller, who traveled through towns and towns in the Pomerania to implement these provisions. For his great day Starogard waited until that cold January day, when Polish troops entered the city through triumphal gates, in order to restore them to Poland forever on behalf of the Republic of Poland. Then came the time of submission to our public life in many areas. Ladies and gentlemen, let us keep the atmosphere of those events in our memory and in our hearts. May January 29th always we associate ourselves with regaining freedom and pride in being Poles. Let us also be aware that freedom, as the history of Europe or even the world shows, is quite rare in the full sense of this word, it can be said that it is a deficit. If we go back a dozen or dozen years, we need to see ourselves as witnesses of a wave of freedom passing through different countries, including the countries of our region. This freedom is opposed to various forms of resistance which oppose this freedom. It's proof of how much we have to resist it, as at all costs of freedom that wasn't given to us for free, we have to defend ourselves. The experiences of recent years clearly show that there is no freedom, including this national one, without a strong state. This area of freedom and democracy is provided by a strong national state. Therefore, anti-state attitudes deserve strong rejection, which has happened recently in our homeland. I believe that our nation has all the characteristics of a nation that is not only predisposed to attain freedom in full scope, but also has a great desire and love for freedom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u482	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago I had the privilege of meeting with residents of the village of Sands near Kępna. A town which is many in Wielkopolska, clean, well-maintained, economical, with residents open to hospitality for visitors visiting this village of Poles. It is also a place where Polish entrepreneurs locate their capital by building furniture factories that are known abroad, not only in Europe, but also in the United States and in other parts of our globe. During this meeting, the residents protested the construction of a chicken broiler farm with a cast of 840 DJP. For the less oriented, it's almost a million pieces a year. This farm is supposed to be built at a distance. Literally forty-50 m from the farm buildings, which causes great anxiety of the inhabitants of the town of Piaski. Unfortunately, the Self-Governmental Appeals College in Kalisz rejected the protest of the inhabitants, recognizing the investor's reasons. It remains to be hoped that the Voivodeship Administrative Court in Poznań will recognise the rations of the inhabitants of the town of Piaski, who direct to the WSA appeals against the decision of the local review college. But the problem, regardless of how the issue of building a chicken broiler farm in Sandy will be resolved, remains. We observe that more and more local communities are protesting: against American mink farms, and this against such large installations as the one in Sandy. It remains to be hoped that the solidarity of the local community against this construction will also be followed by the activities of the Ministry of the Environment and that the High Chamber will soon deal with the draft odor law. Dear People of Sandy Town! I am not the only one who, as a Member of the Law and Justice, supports you in your efforts to protect the environment. To this, the other Members of the Law and Justice in the Kalisk-Leszczyński district also join these activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u484	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u485	January 31st is the 150th anniversary of the birth of General Brig. Mariusz Zaruski. He was born in 1867 in Dumanov, Podol. He was a very talented man: a poet, a prosaic, a painter, a photographer, a traveler, a tavern and a sailor - a real Renaissance man, you can say. He loved the mountains and the sea, which translated into his public ministry. He was the creator of the Tatra Volunteer Rescue Service and the President of the Polish Sailing Union. Thanks to his patriotic upbringing, which he carried out from his family home, he served Poland throughout his life. In his youth he made many deep sea voyages. For his independence activity he was sent by the Tsarist authorities to Archangielska in 1894. After returning to Poland, he graduated from the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow, and then moved to Zakopane to set up the Tatra Volunteer Emergency Service there in 1909. With the outbreak of the Great War, World War I, he became a legionary. After regaining independence, he served in the Polish Army as commander of the 11th Ulysses regiment. He was also an aide to President Stanisław Wojciechowski. He retired before the fall of May. As a retired general, Zaruski decided to devote himself to sailing, he was president of the Polish Sailing Union. He was arrested in 1939 by the NKVD in Lviv and then in prison in Kherson, where in 1941 he died of a disease called cholera. His patriotism and his love of his homeland, his work for the common good and his educational work are worthy of imitation. Therefore, commemorating the 150th anniversary of the birth of General Mariusz Zaruski is a form of thanking the Polish parliament for this outstanding Pole.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u486	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice is preparing a proposal for changes in electoral ordination to local government. The most important demand is the introduction of two cadences of the mayors, mayors and presidents. A simultaneous extension of the term of office to 5 years is considered. This is a really great idea. Many mayors, the mayor of the city, have been in office continuously since the first local elections. It even happens that some have been in office for decades, because the former chiefs of the communes have become their uncles. This situation strongly restricts local democracy, consolidates different political agreements and promotes corruption. The participation of residents in the exercise of power must be increased and the structure of local authority itself, thanks to the changes introduced, would become more transparent. It will be impossible to create personal links and permanent, more or less official arrangements. Every mayor, mayor and president during the two term of office - because there are so many proposed changes - is able to do a lot for the local community. At that time you can present your vision and realize even these big projects. The mere fact that he will not be able to perform his duties by successive terms does not mean that he will disappear completely from public life. His experience will continue to be very valuable, and he himself will be able to continue serving the inhabitants of his city or commune, as well as being in the authorities of the county or the authorities of the voivodship. Other changes that are possible and which would undoubtedly make it difficult or even prevent any abuse are transparent urns and webcams in every polling place, new ways of counting votes, in which all committee members would have to take part, as well as the need to store ballots for several years. Law and Justice wants all these changes to be in force during the 2018 local elections. In my opinion, one more change is needed in the future, namely the liquidation of one-mandate electoral districts, i.e. the so-called. The JOWs. They are not the optimal solution for our political system. Some of the smallest municipalities had to be divided into districts that really counted as many as dozens of voters. The dividing lines are often artificial, and where the population is changing intensively, they will often have to be moved. In the case of larger municipalities, the problem is even more serious. The JOWs lead to a phenomenon where the best chance of obtaining a mandate is for those who run from the most famous committees, e.g. those who are focused around the current ruler, the mayor or the president. Many residents do not have any representation on the council. In addition, councillors elected in the JOWs may be disloyal to their committee and often do so. Representing a small district, they are attached to it, and in some situations the most important thing for them is the interest of one district, not the whole city, and the councilman should look at the interests of the entire community. I hope that all the new, better rules will be implemented and will be in force during the forthcoming local elections. Because although there is no system that is 100% flawless, one should strive for a form that is optimal, the most equitable and consistent with democratic standards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u488	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u489	Message statement on farewell to the veteran Janusz Brochwicz-Lewiński ps. A griffin. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday we said goodbye to Janusz Brochwicz-Lewiński's dog. Griffin, a Batalion soldier AK Parasol, commander of the defence of Michl's palace during the Warsaw Uprising. Janusz Brochwicz-Lewiński was born on 17 September 1920 in Wołkowysk. In September 1939 he fought as a corporal. After the aggression of the Soviet Union against Poland, he was captured by the Soviet Union on 18 September, from which he escaped and joined the ZWZ-AK. He served among others. Under the command por. Jeronim Dekutowskiego, one of the most famous soldiers of the anti-communist underground. From 1940 to 1942, he worked in Puławy as an administrative officer while working for Polish intelligence. The deconspirator entered Lublin and Janów Lubelski. Until January 1944 he led one of the guerrilla troops in Lublin. Among the Germans he had a nickname for the Knight Commander. Then he was transferred to the battalion for special tasks of AK Parasol, where he was an instructor in training in the conspiracy podchożnik. Shortly before the uprising, Brochwicz-Lewiński commanded an attack on Wendy's pharmacy near Krakowskie Przedmieście, during which tools, medications and dressing materials were acquired for underground soldiers. In the Warsaw Uprising until August 5, he commanded the defence of Michl's palace on Wola. His crew repeatedly resisted German assaults supported by armored craft. The Griffin was badly wounded in battle at the Evangelical cemetery in Wola. After the surrender, he was a prisoner of the POW camp. After the war, he was in exile in England. He joined the British Army. In 2002 he returned to Poland. He acted actively in the combatant environment, popularized history among young people. He supported the work of the Institute of National Remembrance to identify the victims of communist terror. IPN granted him the title of Custos of National Remembrance in 2016. In 2007, he participated in the billboard action of the Tomorrow Patriotism programme. Between 2009 and 2014 he was in the Chapter of the Order of the Virtuti Militari War Order. In 2014, he was a member of the Honorary Committee of the Link Foundation. Praise the Heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u490	Due to the various irregularities revealed in the report of the NIK on the construction of new museums during the period of the PO-PSL government - moving the dates of the surrender of buildings, excessive costs of investment carefreely covered by loans, lack of official control of expenditure and short-sighted financiality not taking into account the cost of maintaining complexes - several conclusions are made without any note of optimism and not included in the report of the NIK. New investments were started, not only without cost, but at the expense of existing museums, whose budget was cut to the limit both at the expense of employees and, at the risk, at the cost of protecting national heritage and against the Museum Act. Our predecessors had such crazy ideas as to raise funds by pooling facilities, and of course neither the liquidation costs nor the safety costs of harvests were taken into account. Even homely methods were used, e.g. in Katowice at the application, to this day infinite, moved from one building to another. Because our predecessors were crystal, it was to the public's opinion information about architectural bubbles and submersibles in poorly designed aggregates that simply did not reach and still do not reach. On the way, it was decided to revolutionize the sphere of museums and equalize professional curators and cleaning crews. The museums were sweetened with the humiliation of the 3-day gold in Łódź, the cost of which was at the level of the annual budget of the middle-class museum. During this time, the positions were filled with familiar managers who fire substantive employees for PR employees who are converting museums into circuses with corporate elements. It is enough to say that one of the directors, whose work in previous museums aroused, I will say gently, doubts - from the Chopin museum to the Jewish museum - found a position in Silesia. The museum environment complains quietly. Employees, professionals in narrow areas are afraid of losing their jobs. To sum up, museums in the context of the new historical state policy need new legislation and expenditure on heritage conservation, a comprehensive order. Otherwise, our successors will find scattered exhibits in museums that no conservator can bring back to life. And it must be remembered that Poland, which has been plundered for centuries, is not a power in the field of museums. We're on the brink of collapse and we're about to lose what's most precious - the exhibits will fall apart, and the specialists will disappear and no one will protect the things important to our history. That's why getting the Czartoryski collection was so important. This is an introduction to the attention of all the museums that have been plunged into by our predecessors, and must continue because it is a testimony of the achievements of generations. This is our national welfare, developed by our ancestors, which we should take care of with special love and devotion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u491	Statement on the National Transplant Day. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My statement today concerns a relatively young field of medicine, which is transplantology. Each year on January 26th we celebrate the Polish Transplant Day. The date did not come from the case, because the first successful transplant in Poland took place on that day in 1966 and it was a kidney transplant. It was then 621. such a procedure in the world. The first documented in the history of successful transplantation was performed in Boston in 1954, a kidney transplanted from a twin patient's brother. The pioneer of modern transplantology was French surgeon Alexis Carrel living at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. He experimented with transplanting organs to animals. His work allowed, among others. to develop suture technique of blood vessels. He also won the Nobel Prize. Other important dates in transplantology are: the first successful liver transplant in 1967 in Denver, the same year the heart was transplanted in Cape Town, and the first heart and lung transplant in Stanford was performed in 1981. Given the historical features in Poland, it should be mentioned that the first successful kidney transplants from the deceased were performed by professors Jan Nielubowicz and Witold Orłowski in Warsaw in 1966, while a successful heart transplant was performed by Zbigniew Religion in Zabrze in 1985. The first successful liver transplant was carried out in 1990 and in 1994 in an adult. Organ transplantation is a way to save lives. It is undoubtedly a miracle of medicine, for many human lives have been saved by it. Transplant procedures are not only organ procurement and transplantation, but also what happens to the patient before and after. I think today is the perfect time to be able to thank all those who promote this noble idea of saving lives by declaring organ donation for transplantation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-01-26-sejm-34-4.u492	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 34th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 35th session of the Sejm will be served to the ladies and gentlemen of the House. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 21 min 08]]
