ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.15, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Commission for Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 16, - Health-- hour. 16, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Reforms of the Justice dimension - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Psoriasis - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Volunteer Workers - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Carpathian Team - hour. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u2	Thank you very much. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the law on the establishment of the multiannual programme. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004-2017. This is print number 1885. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u3	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask for an adjournment. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I would like the Prime Minister to be able to prepare and speak under item 6 of the agenda during the break. This is about the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the explanatory memorandum of the government project we read: The tax on goods and services is the most important source of revenue for the state budget, which is why the size and stability of revenue is extremely important here. Therefore, I would like the Prime Minister to answer us why the government wants to reduce VAT revenue by introducing a trade ban on Sunday. Why would he want to deprive thousands of people of their jobs? Why does he want businesses to have reduced turnover and profits? Why does he want to lead to the collapse of weekend cross-border trade? Why limit the possibility of working for students on days off? Then why does it hit entrepreneurs who have long-term lease contracts signed in shopping malls, reduce their profits and turnover? These entrepreneurs have no chance of renegotiating leases. Why not make the simplest changes to the Labour Code so that only one working Sunday is allowed? One last question. Why do we want to limit our freedom and choice? Modern carried out last Sunday's action, I shop when I want and it was very well received. Therefore, I appeal to the Poles: shop whenever you want, not when you are allowed by the PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u4	So we have three requests for a break. Today - one, yesterday - two. [[Applause]] Since these are formal proposals, we will vote on them as one. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[But it was supposed to be a break yesterday.]] [[Voice from the hall: Tomorrow will be, now yesterday's break.]] 421 Members voted. 161 votes against - 259, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft budget law for 2018. Yesterday, a motion was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The Members shall raise questions. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u5	I have two questions and it concerns the budget. Please, if I extend it by 20 seconds... Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Before Members of the PiS unintelligibly vote another bad one for Poland and consequently for Polish families, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would like to ask the finance minister to Prime Minister Morawiecki and Prime Minister Szydło. Minister, yesterday you tried to convince the High House, and perhaps yourself, that Poland is a country of milk and honey flowing. At the same time, you said that the Civic Platform in times of crisis, instead of sealing VAT revenues, raised the basic rate by one percentage point. Therefore, I have a question for you. If this is really so great, the crisis is over, you say that you are successful in sealing, the economic economy in the world is what has not been in Poland for years, and therefore also in Poland, then please answer the High House, and perhaps Poles first of all, why you are not returning to the basic rate, i.e. You're pulling 6 billion zlotys out of Poles' pockets next year? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, a question for the Prime Minister. You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u6	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u7	But, Marshal, this is a budget bill. I have a question for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u8	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u9	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u10	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u11	Prime Minister, I would like to ask if you have already opened an investigation into Tomasz Strąk, who for a year and a half was the Director of the Tax Collection Department and was responsible for the creation of the National Tax Administration, and a few days ago was arrested in connection with the fraud of tens of millions from the State Treasury. Will you answer the High House? Is that what it is to seal taxes according to the PiS? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u12	Madame, you have abused my kindness because I have extended your time beyond the rules, so to speak, and you are asking a question unrelated to the budget. [[But what do you mean, no?]] [[Tax-related, tax-policy-related.]] The question is raised by Mr Jacek Sasin, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the question: What is the real reason for this proposal to reject the budget law at first reading? Because even with all the irrationality of the opposition, I find it hard to believe that this is the reason for 24 billion for the 500+ programme, 75 billion for social spending, 2 billion for living+, 0.5 billion for free medicines for seniors, record economic growth that puts us at the forefront of Europe, and a record low budget deficit. [[What record height, man?]] It's not about that. The point is, ladies and gentlemen, this budget, this bill is one big accusation of your governments, because this budget shows that it can be effective. [[Applause]] fight fraud, tax theft, you can seal the tax system, you can eliminate those VAT carousels that were spinning around with all their power and escaped from the pockets of Poles [[♪ The bell ♪]] by your governments 260 billion PLN. You can do that. You didn't do it, you put a protective umbrella over crooks, over thieves. Or else... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u14	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u15	'Cause how else... 'Cause how else... Marshal, I can like Mrs Leszczyn...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u16	Thank you. No, no, sir. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u17	You were putting on a protective umbrella, because otherwise... [[Lie!]] ...read the decision to liquidate...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u18	The question is asked by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u19	...department of the fight against economic crime at the Home Office, what did you do for your government?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u20	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u21	Mrs Leszczyna was then Deputy Minister of Finance. And you, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u22	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u23	...and you, Madam, and your bosses, and the prime ministers of this period, will be responsible for this before the committee of inquiry. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u24	Mr... Ladies and gentlemen, don't get used to the fact that I'm going to extend my time extra. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but it turns out that half a day of budget discussion, and unfortunately, the Members of the Law and Justice have not understood anything. The main reason why we filed a motion for rejection [[Joy in the Chamber]] budget at first reading... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...is that instead of solving the important problems of Poles and Poles, you are simply once again enjoying the good times. If the budget situation is so good, why don't you have money to increase your expenditure on health care? [[We're increasing.]] You give away money, running an election campaign all the time, and Poles die in line to doctors. And it will be your responsibility that mortality [[Applause]] among Poles grows. The number of doctors per 1,000. residents in Poland will grow... [[There was a former Minister of Health who refused to increase the expenditure on the health service. Look that way.]] ...and we're already on the tail of Europe. You are once again enjoying the good times, not supporting investment, not lowering labour costs, not directing money where it is most needed. You're just realizing your populist [[♪ The bell ♪]] promises only to ensure re-election. That is not the case for responsible management of the state. [[Applause]] [[Rysiek, she's better than you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u27	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question for the Prime Minister in relation to the budget: Do you remember your speech on 6 October 2015 in Lubin, a city in Lower Silesia, where you promised that immediately after you took power, you would abolish the tax on certain minerals? We have the third draft budget already submitted by your government and the tax as it was budgeted, so it is. Do you remember the declarations made in your speech at the July 2015 Law and Justice Programme Conference in Katowice, where you announced a return to the 22 percent VAT rate? We have the third budget submitted by this government, by the Prime Minister, and the rate as it was 23 percent, that's how it is all the time. Why will we vote against this draft budget at first reading? Because there is no foreseen increase for young resident doctors, and the consequence of such a financial policy is to close as good medical facilities as the heart clinic in Starachowice. Yesterday, nurses and patients. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They protested, and you didn't find time to talk to them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u28	Thank you very much. Well, for the record, it's technically the third, but practically the second draft budget. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to reject the draft 2018 government budget law at first reading, contained in print no. 1876, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 231, 27 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. According to Art. 106 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The draft budget law of the Sejm shall be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the respective parts of the draft shall also be examined by the relevant Sejm committees, which shall forward to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments together with justification. In accordance with the resolution of the Bureau of the Sejm on the procedure for drawing up the draft budget law for 2018, the Sejm committees shall communicate their positions to the Committee on Public Finance by 3 November 2017 and the Public Finance Commission shall adopt the report by 1 December 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: A selection complementary to the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group (print No 1882). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. 5a of the Law of 21 January 1999 on the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry submitted a proposal for a supplementary selection to the personal composition of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this proposal? No one's checking in. Let me remind you that on the basis of the article. 2 (2) 1 of the Act on the Parliament's committee of inquiry changes in the composition of the committee shall be made by an absolute majority of the votes. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 1882, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. 425 Members voted in favour. Everyone voted in favour. So the Sejm adopted the resolution unanimously. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the law on the establishment of the multiannual programme of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004-2017 (prints no. 1849 and 1885). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Yesterday, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth considered a draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Long-Term Programme of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004-2017. The vast majority of the tasks covered by the programme have been carried out. There was no execution, not because of the university, two tasks involving less than 1% the size of the investment. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth without a vote of opposition recommends that the High House adopt the law in the version provided to ladies and gentlemen in Parliament's printing No 1849. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u30	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club. At the same time, I ask you to allow the Member to present his speech so that it can be heard throughout the room. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We're debating a proposal for an uncomplicated bill. It is simply a delay in the end date of the multi-annual investment programme for the University of Poznań, for the University of Poznań. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. Most of the work has already been done. Two investment tasks have not been completed. The purchase of land and the construction of a sports facility were not carried out due to prolonged administrative procedures as a result of obstruction, either from property owners who wanted to raise the price or from local residents who did not agree to this sport investment for a long time. Eventually, the land was bought out. The university was granted a building permit and other appropriate administrative decisions, but there was no time to carry out these investments. Hence the request to postpone the time limit for the implementation of this multi-year investment programme by 2 years, from 2017 to 2019. In this way, the university will successfully complete its development programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as the predecessors mentioned, we are dealing with an uncomplicated, in fact - although not yet completed with the corresponding changes in the budget - draft law, which extends the investment programme of the University to them. Adam Mickiewicz for two years. The programme for the years 2004 and 2017 was implemented with some complications, among others. because of the question of expropriation of the parcels that the university was supposed to take over on Morasko campus. It is the fastest growing university campus in the Republic of Poland. The University of Science and Technology Adam Mickiewicz needs a little more time to complete the entire project of the university's many-year development. Therefore, as a Civic Platform club, we will support this project, while waiting for the governing majority and the finance minister to include in the budget changes in the coming weeks, during the debate in the Sejm, a time shift. The University of Science and Technology Adam Mickiewicz is approaching the century of his uprising, although as early as 1611 the first masters began their studies in the royal city of Poznań. All the more reason why we would like this multiannual programme to be completed in the century of the University of Poznań. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs... No, there's Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. [[Your Marshal, are the clouurs closed? Because this is where everyone's discussing in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an incredibly simple, extremely short bill. It is only about extending the implementation of the multiannual plan for one of the most important Polish universities until 2019. This extension results not only from university omissions but also from non-university reasons, such as land expropriation cases or protests by residents about the construction of the field and sports stadium. In this situation, it seems that there is nothing specifically to discuss. The Kukiz Club15 fully supports this project and we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Modern Club, of course, supports the amendment of the law on the establishment of the multiannual programme of the University. Adam Mickiewicz. The change itself is cosmetic, it concerns the extension of the deadline for implementing the programme. I will remind you that it has already been extended in the past: in 2010 an extension was recorded until 2015, but then there was also an increase from 311 million PLN to 500 million PLN. It was then possible to complete the construction of the chemistry department and start further investments, among others. construction of the history department. Currently, the campus is mainly home to the university's strict departments. Adam Mickiewicz, but also the natural department. The current proposal aims to extend this period by a further 2 years for reasons outside the university. These were more investment and formal problems. With this extension, the aim is to make an investment in the development of sport infrastructure. They are to be created, among others. new sports halls, tennis courts and stadium with a field along with the necessary technical infrastructure supporting this facility. In view of the concern for the future of the university as well as its importance for the development of Poznań's academic city, modern is in favour of these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law on the establishment of the multiannual programme. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004-2017. This project extends the current university development plan by 2 years. From now on, it will be a multi-annual programme. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004-2019. This programme is very good and positive, High Izbo, an example of how, despite the differences that separated us and shared us today, you can create many years of forward-looking programs that will benefit future students of Poznań university. But returning to substance: the first of the actions that have not yet been implemented is the purchase of two parcels for which expropriation proceedings have been carried out lately. This was the result of a persistent demand by the owners of an excessive price, several times exceeding the level of market prices. At present, the amount of compensation is dealt with by the administrative court. The second unexecuted task is to build university sports facilities in Poznań-Morasko. For this purpose, the amount of PLN 6 million is foreseen from the State budget. In this case, the investment was delayed by protests by residents who blocked the construction of university buildings. High Izbo! My heart grows when I look at the development of my Alma Mater, the University im. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. Further modern facilities increase opportunities and improve the comfort of studying and working at the university. 20 years ago, when there were no such significant investments, there were no European funds, we could have such beautiful facilities as today's emerging or currently available students... Today the campus in Morask in Poznań grows and attracts students from all over the country and from abroad, and before the University of Morask. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań opens up new opportunities. I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the development of our University in Poznań in recent years. I hope that the initiatives to support the UAM will always find the understanding and approval of the High House. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In a situation where, for reasons beyond the control of the UAM, significant investments have not been made within the deadline set, the 2 year extension initiative deserves praise and our support. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to declare our support for this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the establishment of the multiannual programme of the University im. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań 2004-2017. The proposed amendment to the Act is intended to allow the completion of a programme whose finality will have positive social and economic consequences without having any budgetary implications. In comparison with most of the investment tasks already carried out before, it would be absurd not to complete two that were not carried out by universities for reasons beyond their control. It is important that the purchase of land and the construction of university sports facilities can finally start formally and the completion of the construction is planned for 2019. The completion of the programme is undoubtedly in the interest of the academic community and it would be a shame to miss this opportunity. About Free and Solidarni, according to the unanimous recommendation of the committee, will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u42	Thank you, Member. One Member has entered the list of Members who have been enrolled in the task of the question. Would any of you like to sign up? Then you can do it. I understand that only the Member is still in line... [[No, I'm already in.]] That's two MPs. So I close the list. I ask Mr Paul Arndt from the Civic Platform to ask the first question. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, of course, also support the bill that is being discussed at the moment, but I wanted to raise some doubts. Indeed, the investment was not completed for objective reasons and the amount of PLN 7 million is needed at the end of this task. I already asked the Minister yesterday what was the government's position on this matter, but I would like to be sure. There is no mention of money in the draft law, there is no money in the budget of the State for this purpose. I would like to make sure, however, that the budget will be revised and that this money will be entered. The university also engages its money in this task, so you might think that this task will be completed by the university, and only the deadline has been postponed. So once again, I ask you to make sure that these funds are included in the state budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u44	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I actually continue to think of my predecessor, Mr Arndt, because we are dealing with a certain lack of reliability in the construction of the budget. I understand that prior to the adoption of this law, which, as we have heard, is full compliance, and we knew about this compatibility much earlier than this law went to the Marshal's staff, the Ministry of Finance knew about it. I understand that there is no money in the basic part of the budget, but why didn't the Ministry of Finance, according to art, reserve the money? That's my question. Such a solution, which is in line with the art of budgeting, would avoid the difficult questions that Mr Arndt asked yesterday and today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u46	Thank you. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr. Aleksander Bobka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to say that the Ministry, of course, also supports the draft law, but as far as financial issues are concerned, this is not about the amount of 7 million, but 5649 thousand. This is a technical issue, this year these funds have not been used and they will be secured from the reserve by the Ministry of Finance in the 2018 budget. This budget operation, relatively small, let's say, will just be done in the right way. That is my assurance, and I would also like to declare it here in front of the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u48	Thank you very much. The applicant's representative, Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, also asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I will refer to the Minister's questions and answers. Of course, the budget designer could not foresee these small resources in the draft budget because he had no legal basis. This basis will only be adopted, I hope, tomorrow and then the legislative process will have to be completed. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that the appropriations not used in a given financial year are, of course, subject to certain restrictions, for the following financial year and can be used. Besides, we're still ahead of the budget. The budget designer's will, the government, will depend on whether he will introduce such an adjustment that is actually irrelevant from the point of view of the budget as a whole. at the stage of budget adoption. I wanted to thank the Marshal and the Members, on behalf of the applicants of this law, for speeding up this uncomplicated law, but so necessary for the completion of an ambitious investment programme by the university. Once again, thank you to the marshal and to the Members. [[Applause]] [[Your Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u50	In a minute. And the rapporteur for the committee, Mr Witold Czarnecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I join you in the thanks that Mr Tadeusz Dziuba has given to the hands of the marshal and the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u52	Thank you very much. And what is your formula? [[In corrigendum mode.]] There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask for a possible explanation. I told you that at the end of the task it would take about PLN 7 million. The Minister was talking about 500,000. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Aleksander Bobko: 5 million.]] Five million. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Aleksander Bobko: 5600 thousand.]] If 5 million, it is better because there are two tasks: one task is what you have said, more than 700,000. for the purchase of land, and over PLN 6 million for a sporting task. Therefore, this gives about PLN 7 million, the Minister was talking about $500,000, which is why I was a little scared that again in the budget we would not have enough money for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u54	But I understand that the matter has already been clarified.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u55	I hope so.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u56	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets (print No 1865). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the Government project in print 1865 concerning the proposal for new legislation on excise duties on tobacco products and the amendment of other laws. The tobacco industry is crucial for the state budget due to the large share of indirect taxes on tobacco products in the overall budgetary impact. In 2016, for example, the State's excise budget received revenue of PLN 65,7 billion, including excise duties on tobacco products - PLN 18,5 billion. Revenue from excise duties on tobacco products was 4% in 2016 more than in the previous year, but the problem of the shadow economy remains in the tobacco sector. The market for legally processed tobacco products is estimated at over PLN 27 billion, so it is a large market. In 2016, officers under the Ministry of Finance discovered a record number of 72 illegal tobacco factories, seized 44.5 million cigarettes and more than 200 tonnes of tobacco from illegal sources. The above shows how much of the problem is the production of tobacco products by illegal factories and the non-payment of taxes due to the state budget. The draft law amending the excise duty Act and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets aims at taxing excise duties on the sale of tobacco dried tobacco by a producer of dried tobacco made in connection with intra-Community supply or export of that product by that entity, imposing an obligation on intermediary tobacco operators to transfer to the National Centre for Agricultural Support, KOWR, data on concentrated tobacco drought and the list of producers of such dried tobacco, imposing an obligation to keep a register of tobacco dried to taxable persons who store non-taxed tobacco droughts outside the tax warehouse, introducing a new form of excise security, i.e. mortgage on real estate, allow the lodging of excise security by third parties instead of an intermediary tobacco operator and an entity representing a foreign trader without a branch established in the territory of the country or including such an entity, to reduce the upper limit of the flat-rate security lodged by intermediary tobacco operators or entities representing a foreign trader from the current PLN 30 million to PLN 15 million and to establish a register of producers of raw tobacco kept by KOWR. In addition, the project aims to introduce rules allowing checks to be carried out on the monitoring of tobacco leaf cultivation and the destruction of the cultivation at the cost of tobacco cultivation without obtaining an entry in the register of producers of raw tobacco and on a surface exceeding the notified area, the obligation on producers of raw tobacco to provide once a year information on the area of cultivation, production and disposal of raw tobacco and the contracts concluded for the disposal of raw tobacco, as well as on penalties for non-compliance with the rules on timely transmission of information on cultivation, production and disposal of raw tobacco. The purpose of the changes, High Izbo, is to seal the circulation of dried tobacco leaves. Recommended solutions will allow monitoring of the circulation of tobacco drought from the time of cultivation of tobacco leaf to the actual consumption of tobacco products. It is expected that the proposed measures will reduce the weight of raw tobacco delivered to tobacco manufacturers operating against the provisions of the Excise Tax Act and improve the operating conditions of legal intermediaries. In view of the above, it is justified to introduce the proposed amendment to the excise duty Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to ask the floor of Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u59	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on a government draft law amending the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. As a result of the amendment of the excise duty Act introduced as from 1 January 2016, the excise security lodged by intermediary tobacco operators carrying out an economic activity in the field of tobacco drought is intended to ensure that tax obligations are covered. As a result of these and other activities, the shadow economy in the cigarette market is already falling. The tobacco industry is crucial for the state budget due to the high share of excise duty on tobacco products in the overall budgetary impact. In 2015, the State's excise budget received revenues for tobacco products of PLN 17.8 billion, while in 2016 those revenues amounted to PLN 18.5 billion. So this is an increase of 0.7 billion PLN. Reinforcing control services should also include more effective control of tobacco drought. Illegal trade in tobacco products is one of the most profitable spheres of the grey zone. This draft law intends to amend two laws: the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. The amendments to the Excise Tax Act are mainly intended to seal the tax system for the marketing of tobacco drought and to facilitate the pursuit of business activities for legal entities legally trading tobacco drought. In line with the new proposal in the article. 9 sales of tobacco dried with intra-Community supply or export without excise duty will only be made by the tax warehouse operator, by a group of producers of tobacco dried by farmers or by an intermediary tobacco operator and not, as yet, by a farmer. This will preserve competitiveness in the tobacco export market. The sale of tobacco dried by the farmer alone will be possible, but it will entail an obligation to pay excise duties. The proposed amendments will also allow for information on the weight of raw tobacco delivered to the purchaser under contract, as well as on the weight of raw tobacco collected broken down by group of tobacco varieties. Having information about the same object from different sources allows us to carry out so-called. cross-checks during which the quantity sold with the quantity of concentrated tobacco dried will be verified. The solution proposed in the Article. 63 provides that, instead of the intermediary tobacco operator and the representative of the foreign trader or together with the latter, the required excise security may be lodged by a third party in order to facilitate the pursuit of the business activities of the tobacco traders. In line with the demands of the intermediaries, the upper limit of the flat-rate security lodged by these operators is expected to be reduced from PLN 30 million to PLN 15 million. The Act also introduces a new form of excise security, which is a mortgage on real estate. The above amendment meets the demands of intermediary tobacco products in this respect. The amendments to the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets aim to seal the marketing of dried tobacco leaves, hereinafter referred to as tobacco raw materials, in Poland. Control of tobacco cultivation and the production and sale of raw tobacco, as well as supervision of tobacco cultivation and production and disposal of raw tobacco are introduced. The monitoring and control mentioned above aims to limit the supply of raw tobacco to illegally operating tobacco factories. The draft law also sets out the procedure for the destruction of raw tobacco in the event of a decision by the producer of the raw tobacco. Regulations have also been introduced which will apply to the cessation of tobacco cultivation by its manufacturer. The imposition of sanctions is proportionate to the losses suffered by the Polish economy as a result of the action of the shadow economy in the trade in tobacco raw materials. Rules on penalties for non-compliance with the rules set out in the draft aim to ensure the reliability of the data transmitted [[♪ The bell ♪]] for monitoring tobacco cultivation as a result of the need to reduce the supply of raw tobacco to tobacco producing plants. The proposed solutions impose a number of obligations, but are very beneficial to the tobacco industry itself, which is why the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the Government's draft law on amending the excise tax law and the Act on the organisation of certain agricultural markets contained in print No. 1865. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u61	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. The gray zone in the tobacco trade, of course, remains a major problem in Poland. Before 2016, these irregularities consisted, inter alia. on the fact that tobacco droughts were covered by fictitious intra-Community sales or were sold without excise duty to unauthorised operators. The changes have sealed the tobacco drought trading system by intermediary tobacco operators, but still the problem is the production of tobacco products by illegal factories that do not pay due taxes to the state budget. Since one of the sources of raw tobacco used for production may be the one from domestic production, the proposed provisions aim to reduce the amount of raw tobacco entering such illegal establishments. The Act introduces monitoring and supervision of tobacco production. The project assumes that tobacco producers will be required to provide once a year information on the area of cultivation, production and disposal of raw tobacco and the contracts concluded for the disposal of that raw material. Penalties have also been imposed for non-compliance and procedures have been laid down for the destruction of raw tobacco in the event of a decision by its producer to do so. The proposed amendments are intended to limit the grey zone in tobacco trade by sealing the tax system and are intended to result in increased impacts on the state budget. The Civic Platform generally accepts the assumptions proposed in the revision of this law, as there is no doubt that the tobacco market is particularly vulnerable to the dangers associated with the attempt to take over it by organised crime. The question of whether the proposed changes will not be an excessive bureaucratic burden for tobacco producers or hinder the economic activity of the tobacco industry may be a concern. I hope that these concerns will be resolved in further work. The Civic Platform Club is in favour of directing the project to further work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary bill. On 15 February, Kukiz15 brought in this project, and the fact that the partyocracy hid it for 18 months without consideration, further trying to write its project, should be called... Exactly, ladies and gentlemen, call yourself such a strange behavior. Today's project concerns the coverage of domestic tobacco production by monitoring tobacco cultivation and subsequent trade in tobacco drought and supervision of which is part of the process of sealing the tax system, a necessary action, of course, but with regard to intermediary tobacco operators and farmers, who are more than 1.5 years late. According to the information provided by Minister Wiesław Jasiński during the reading of the project of the Kukiz club15 concerning the problem in 2013 and 2015, we had to deal with illegal transactions for the amount of PLN 1 billion. At the end of its office, the PO-PSL government finally noticed the irregularities in the drought trade and passed a law that entered into force only during the next government term. The Act prepared by the PO-PSL coalition caused that the activity in the field of tobacco drought trading was subject to drastic restrictions. Intermediate entities are imposed on obligation to lodge a security of excise duty in a gigantic amount, usually PLN 30 million. Most of the intermediary tobacco companies are small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs. The determination of the amount of the excise security at such a high level has resulted in the withdrawal from this activity by many family operators. The Kukiz Club,15 in February 2016, i.e. more than 18 months ago, submitted a bill aimed at protecting against the collapse of intermediary tobacco operators through the possibility of exemption from excise duty of entities which fulfil statutory conditions. Unfortunately, the tardiness of the Members of the Law and Justice and the Ministry of Finance has made this law not yet enter into force. In response to my writings, tobacco growers and intermediary tobacco operators, who were not certain tomorrow, we were denied assurances that the Ministry was working on a comprehensive regulation of the problem. Of course, the overall sealing of the system is needed, especially since according to the data of the National Tobacco Producers Association, the tobacco industry transfers more than PLN 23 billion annually to the state budget, which represents around 8% total budgetary revenue. If sudden situations arise that threaten the future of such a profitable industry, immediate steps are needed, not after 1.5 years, as is the case in this case. Please note that in Poland we have about 10,000. growers, and the whole tobacco industry provides employment of over 60,000. people to whom we include growers, but also employees in production and processing. I would also like to draw attention to the damage that ill-considered lawmaking can bring. Many laws, which the Polish Parliament produces in mass, often contradict the principle of legal certainty and the thesis of rational legislation. The actions of the previous governing team, as well as the tardiness of the present, have led to the destabilisation of the tobacco market and have negatively affected not only intermediate operators, but also farmers who have serious problems with the disposal of tobacco. In view of the poor condition of Polish tobacco-producing agriculture, we are in favour of a rapid further process of both draft laws: the parliament, submitted by the members of the Kukiz club 15 18 months ago, and the government, submitted 2 weeks ago, to create the conditions for the creation of new tobacco-making operators as soon as possible, so as to restore the cost-effectiveness of tobacco production. At the same time, I apply for this law also in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club. I don't see your MP. In this connection, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the excise duty law, print No 1865. The draft law amends two laws: the excise tax law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets. The amendment concerns the coverage of domestic tobacco production by monitoring tobacco cultivation, as well as subsequent trade in tobacco drought and monitoring. The project also imposes an obligation on farmers themselves to pay excise duties on tobacco producers in connection with the supply or export of this product. In order to monitor the marketing of tobacco droughts all tobacco buyers shall be required to provide the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre with data on the quantity of raw material stored by group of varieties. Similar information on the weight of raw tobacco delivered to the purchaser will also be derived from the contract that will be provided by the producer of raw tobacco, that is to say, directly by the farmer. In this way, the so-called. Cross control - it is a comparison of whether the quantity of tobacco dried sold is equal to the quantity concentrated. In addition, the amendment of the Excise Act introduces a new form of excise security, i.e. mortgages on immovable property, and so that the required excise securities can be lodged by third parties. The project also reduces the upper limit of the flat-rate security lodged by intermediary tobacco operators or entities representing a foreign trader - from the current 30 million PLN to 15 million PLN. With regard to the amendment of the Act on the organisation of agricultural markets, the obligation to keep a register of raw tobacco producers by the field branches of the National Agricultural Support Centre was imposed on tobacco farmers to provide information on the area of cultivation, production and disposal of raw tobacco and to conclude contracts for the disposal of tobacco. The draft also contains rules on penalties for non-compliance with the rules on tobacco marketing and the monitoring, production and marketing of tobacco is carried out by the National Agricultural Support Centre. Following the introduction of this project, according to estimates made by the government, the revenue of the state budget will amount to about PLN 78 million per year. However, I have serious doubts as to whether the calculated revenues are realistic. During the trade in tobacco droughts before 1 January 2016, there were significant irregularities involving fictitious sales, the sale of tobacco dried without excise duty to unauthorised persons, and the sale of dried tobacco to another intermediary tobacco operator was not documented. The amendment of the excise duty Act as of 1 January 2016, I have the impression that it has eliminated these irregularities and today the project under discussion seems unnecessary and is an expression of purely bureaucratic action. The imposition of new burdens, new obligations on farmers who report numerous problems with the tobacco market, this is a bit of a misunderstanding. Farmers have reported and continue to report both to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development and to the Minister for Finance - I receive copies of these interventions - that in the last year and in previous years they have not received payment for raw materials delivered to many purchasing bodies, that the control procedures carried out by law enforcement authorities, prosecutors and customs services are highly reprehensible, prolonged, without effect. I would therefore ask, Minister, to intervene in this matter and perhaps not to say that the issues of market organisation are outside the remit of the government. Therefore, Minister, he can provide assistance, think about helping farmers who ask for it, not preparing them with new registration and information obligations, all the more so because the information in this regard is also in the ARMIR field base. This also includes criminal sanctions for farmers, and tobacco cultivation is extremely difficult work, [[♪ The bell ♪]] heavy, dirty. I have the impression that this policy will lead to the collapse of the entire Polish tobacco market. High Izbo! I do not apply for rejection of the project, but only because I hope for further substantive discussion on the whole issue of tobacco cultivation and the market. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, the modern club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u67	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the law on the organisation of certain agricultural markets, print No 1865. The project concerns the coverage of national production of tobacco dried tobacco monitoring and subsequent marketing of tobacco drought and monitoring. According to the designers, the act aims to seal the tax system and facilitate the pursuit of business activities by legal operators trading in tobacco droughts. As a result of the proposed changes in sales of tobacco dried with intra-Community supply or export, without excise duty, only tax warehousers, a group of tobacco producers bringing together farmers or an intermediary tobacco operator, and not, as yet, a farmer. The proposed law also adds that buyers of raw tobacco, i.e. intermediary tobacco operators and foreign companies with branches established in the territory of the country, are required to provide the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre with data on the bulk of raw tobacco collected by group of varieties. However, this provision is problematic. As the National Council of Agricultural Chambers indicated at the time of the consultation, the introduction of strict penalties for infringement of the proposed law in the form of non-transfer of information, delayed transmission of information, incomplete or non-true information should be postponed until a sufficiently long and effective information campaign is carried out among tobacco plantations. As the Polish Tobacco Planters' Association in Krakow rightly pointed out, tobacco cultivation is currently not profitable, and by imposing additional burdens tobacco growers can be effectively discouraged from further production. Modern wants to make life easier for entrepreneurs, not further hindered by further administrative burdens. At the same time, considering that sealing the tax system is a very important issue for the state budget, for the future of Poland, Modern recommends the project for further work. I hope that our comments and comments from the social partners will also be taken into account in the course of Parliament's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u68	Thank you very much. There's one person on the list of questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I can't hear you. I'm closing the list. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill will be prosecuted in committees, and I believe that it is in my view that it requires clarification. It is impossible to determine what comments I have in one minute, but I will certainly report them during the committee meeting. The Act proposes a regulation providing for the establishment of an excise security in the form of a mortgage on property rights. Isn't that too much of a burden for entrepreneurs? The obligation to pay excise duties for each of the operators knows, and all changes, the obligation to provide information is a major obstacle and burden for agricultural producers. I have a question: on what basis have the anticipated revenues been calculated, as already foreseen by the Minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] and does the government envisage an information campaign among title producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u70	Thank you very much. And I ask Minister Wiesław Janczyk to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the opinion of the clubs on this government project, for the substantive speeches. I am convinced that, in the course of the work in the Committee on Public Finance, we will be able to answer your questions and concerns in detail and comprehensively. Nevertheless, the major contradictions that have arisen here, especially in the speech of the representative of the Kukiz parliamentary club, I would like to comment. Namely, the claim that we have summing up here, that all the intermediaries in the concentration of tobacco drought, so-called. Peppets, must pay a security of PLN 30 million, is not true. This actually applies to only one entity that pays in such a dimension is a security. He will generally have this security reduced as a flat-rate security from 30 million to 15 million under this law. It's a fact. On the other hand, I would like to add that there are many of the 14 intermediaries currently operating, many of whom are much smaller. And for example, it is worth knowing that if such an entity annually acquires 100 t of tobacco dried and a maximum of 40 t per month, then the flat-rate security in his case is 4128 thousand. zł. But there are also smaller entities and we have foreseen an annual security here. The security for the purchase of 10 tonnes of tobacco dried, where the maximum one person per month acquires 4 tonnes of drought, shall be 600 000. zł. So this is not in relation to the amount of excise duty charged on this product of large amounts and, let's say, separated in some rational way from the scale of business and the scale of tax obligations, the fiscal obligations that we are actually talking about. I must say that we are trying as the Ministry of Finance to do everything we can to strengthen the role of Minister of Agriculture in regulating this zone. Poland is the third largest producer, after Italy, Spain - behind us is Greece - when it comes to tobacco leaves, its production. We appreciate that there is an advanced culture of cultivation here. We're doing everything we can to keep it from being destroyed before time. Indeed, bearing in mind the harmfulness of smoking, as the Minister of Health draws the attention of every regulation, we would not want Poland to be the country that will disable tobacco production in such an asynchronous manner and become an importer of tobacco on a large scale. We also have conversations with processors, with companies that operate on the market in Poland and which are large corporate entities that operate internationally. It so happens that these entities locate their factories in Poland, open further modules of these factories and create jobs. And we are trying to be a responsible partner when it comes to regulation in this industry, in dialogue, with the conviction that export products are manufactured in these factories and that it is an individual decision of each of these entities, where it places its means of production. In turn, we want to see that, as far as possible, those places where various types of tobacco products are produced absorb Polish production so that Poles are not eliminated from this market. And such a process is undertaken, with the support of various assets. They talk about taste qualities, about the qualities of the type of tobacco leaf that feeds the individual brands. And these assets are often used. On the other hand, it seems that what you can give in this area, rationalising the entire turnover, is primarily a matter of the tightness of the customs border, in which we have really very good results, i.e. - here I will mention - the elimination of the grey zone in 2016 from the level of 18.2%. Up to 14.6%. That's almost four percentage points. That's impressive. It's appreciated by the industry. Poland is precisely the country on whose eastern border the European Union's customs border is located. We're particularly vulnerable to an invasion, let's say, a cheap product. The same applies to producers. If we want to create a good, rational environment for this difficult one, as Mrs Tokarska said, which requires cultivation, we must first and foremost protect farmers from illegal marketing. Why? That's because this turn is just ruining the market. It spoils the market in such a way that if someone decides to sell tobacco to the gray zone, they can get a temporary minimum price, and that causes the market to fail. Yes, this tobacco, as the data show, is often confiscated, these cigarettes are closed, only in one year we closed 72 labels. These figures really show a reliable commitment of the KAS services to ensure that this crop market is rational. Another element following the introduction of the definition of intermediates and after examination of the condition of the operators who reach for this raw material to the farmer directly by the tax authorities which issue such concessions, as proposed, is the issue of crop monitoring, also by producer groups. We face such a demand. KOWR, I think that in cooperation - here I respond to the concern that was directed - with producer groups, which cover 90% production, plus the government's information campaign, the finance minister, plus this regulation, which will actually only work next year when it comes to buying season, all this should give us a full chance that the producers we really respect... And these rules are prepared to care about them, as well as the entire dialogue that is being conducted with the tycoons on this market, and are conducted in a responsible manner so that the contracts offered are, to the fullest extent, exploitable by farmers who, in parallel, actually on market terms, have the opportunity to sell to entities that operate internationally in our country. Many of the problems that arise today in this industry are due to the fact that this turnover was unregistered, i.e. a certain recipient arrived, offered a price, the farmer succumbed, say, to the temptation to pay a high price, but in fact it was very difficult to obtain money in the end result of such a process. So today, securing this turnover by means of excise duty is the minimum we can do, and crop records seem to be another step towards ensuring that all this turnover is synchronized to reach reliable hands, to intermediaries who will pay first and foremost producers, but also without loss in terms of public danins, tax danins. That's the idea. Thank you for all your comments. We are working through it well, and I think that in the course of further work on the document we will be able to absorb all the detailed comments that you have on the functioning of the tobacco industry in Poland, which we want to keep in line with the stage of demand for this product, for this raw material, Poland and European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u72	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposed to refer this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. On the other hand, the discussion requested that this draft law be extended to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws (Print No. 1864). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the Government's draft law on the amendment of the act on the tax on goods and services concerning the so-called. split payment mechanism. The split payment mechanism is an innovative way to reduce the pathology of VAT fraud, specifically the so-called. a disappearing taxpayer who has developed in the country over recent years, but also in other Member States of the European Union due to the characteristics of cross-border VAT settlements within the European Union. The split payment mechanism was analysed in the European Union documents of 2010. Based on these concepts, the government has prepared the solution proposed in this Act. This solution is based on a change in the technology used in the in-bank clearing system. The change of this technology will enable the taxable person to pay the VAT invoice to the counterparty in two financial streams - in the net stream and in the VAT stream. The net stream will be available to the counterparty in a traditional way, without restrictions, while the VAT payment stream will be embedded in a VAT account with limited flexibility in the disposal of these funds. These funds will in principle be available to the supplier's account, including VAT, or to the tax office for payment of value added tax. The mechanism proposed by this law makes it impossible to select money from this VAT account easily, is practically eliminated. This is a problem of the current system - amounts received from the contractor by criminals are simply transferred abroad and there is virtually no possibility of reaching these amounts. This split payment system makes it difficult or eliminates easy robbing of the budget from the VAT due. The proposed mechanism is a voluntary mechanism. We do not force entrepreneurs to apply this mechanism, but through the incentive system introduced by the VAT Act we will encourage entrepreneurs to use it at least in cases where the trader may have doubts as to the integrity of its contractor, its supplier. These incentives, which we have proposed in the Act, is the accelerated refund of VAT from the tax office to this VAT account, the absence of VAT sanctions, which is an important risk factor in the conduct of business today, the exemption from joint and several liability, which is also a difficult area for taxpayers, the possibility of applying a pre-payment account - if the taxpayer knows that he has an excess payment in this account, he can pay the tax and count on the account, i.e. the state budget will pay off part of the cost of money during that taxpayer's time - and in certain circumstances there will be no higher amount of interest for late payment in respect of VAT arrears. This is a mix of incentives that we consider appropriate at this stage. We are considering, this would be further steps, next steps to include some of the most sensitive sectors in the mandatory system, but these are further steps, also depending on the agreement at the level of the European Commission, which we will present in the near future. The expected effects of this mechanism are to seal the VAT system, increase the certainty of economic turnover, improve the competitive position of honest entrepreneurs vis-à-vis those entrepreneurs who finance their pricing policy simply by not paying VAT, eliminate joint and several liability for the fraud of counterparties, and this is a problem for both traders and tax authorities, which have to apply such an assessment instrument to taxpayers. We will also reduce the scale and necessity of thorough verification of the counterparties that the taxpayer considers to be suspicious. The financial effects of this law are estimated very modestly next year, because the benefits and disadvantages bear, but in the following year, 2019, the effect of sealing this system is estimated at already PLN 2 billion. We therefore submit this bill to the High House for consideration. If there are questions, of course we are ready to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u74	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Sylvester Tulayev, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our club's position on the draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other laws, which is included in print No. 1864. As Law and Justice during the election campaign, we repeatedly stressed that the tax system should be sealed so that public money would not be stolen so that public money would serve all Poles. At one of the first meetings of the Committee on Public Finance, the information of the Supreme Audit Chamber was presented. From this information we learned that throughout 2015 fictitious invoices for the amount of PLN 81 billion were found. This is indeed a great scale - the great scale of those fictional invoices that have been detected. The question is how much has not been detected. The second point is, of course, the question of the VAT gap. This VAT gap amounted to PLN 42 billion in 2015, which is why it is so important today to adopt further laws aimed at sealing the VAT system. I would like to remind you that in 2017 a system for monitoring the carriage of goods by road was introduced, and further work is being done on the extension of the system operating a single control file. Today we have another bill, very important, very necessary. It's a bill about a split payment mechanism. The essence of this solution is that the payment for the purchased goods or services is made in such a way that the payment corresponding to the net sales value is paid by the purchaser to the supplier's clearing account or is otherwise settled, while the remaining payment corresponding to the amount of the value of the goods and services tax is paid to the supplier's special account, the VAT account. The split payment mechanism is considered to be one of the solutions aimed at combating fraud and tax fraud, eliminating the risk of taxpayers disappearing together with those paid to them by counterparties not subject to VAT. This mechanism is intended to make it difficult or even impossible for fraud to arise already at the stage of the transaction itself. The solution proposed in the project assumes voluntaryity in the application of the split payment mechanism. The initiative in this respect is left to the buyer of goods or services, but his use of this clearing method will have certain consequences for both the buyer and the supplier of the goods or services. In order to enable all taxable persons purchasing goods or services to make payments under the split payment mechanism, the VAT account will be established by banks or cooperative savings and credit banks for each entity holding a clearing account and an equivalent name account for the purpose of business activity in the SKOK. Importantly, this project is not interfering with constitutional property rights. Both the VAT account itself and the funds collected on that account will still belong to the taxable person of the tax on goods and services. The taxable person will be able to dispose of these funds at his discretion, although for limited purposes: payment of the VAT liability to the tax office or payment of an amount corresponding to the VAT amount of the invoice received from his counterparty. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This bill is very important. It favours this, as I said, to seal the tax system in Poland, so that the amounts due from VAT which are due to the Polish State are primarily for all residents, all citizens. Therefore, as Law and Justice, as Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I request that this project be further examined in committees and that this much-needed bill be finally adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u76	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, print No 1864. The aim of the project is to prevent tax evasion on goods and services, thereby ensuring greater stability of the proceeds of this tax. However, it should be borne in mind that sealing solutions should not hinder business activity. So taking care of the interests of the State Treasury, the interests of the Treasury should not lead us to lose sight of the interests of entrepreneurs. The draft law provides for the introduction of the so-called mechanism. divided payment. The taxable person purchasing the goods or services will be able to decide whether he will benefit from this form of liability regulation. Taxpayers will be able to use this mechanism in an alternative way, i.e. some invoices will be able to regulate on a split payment basis, some in a regular or traditional way. This mechanism consists in the payment of an amount corresponding in whole or in part to the amount of tax resulting from the invoice received being made to the VAT account and the payment of all or part of the amount corresponding to the net sales value resulting from the invoice received is made to the bank account or to the account in the cooperative credit and savings account for which the VAT account is kept. The split payment mechanism can indeed be an effective instrument to combat tax evasion in the area of goods and services tax, as this tax paid to the supplier or service provider will be credited to an isolated account and, as a rule, to the tax authority. Some of the incentives you've been talking about here are the Minister's. However, it should be stressed that the solution contained in the project also poses significant risks. It can seriously affect the financial liquidity of businesses, as the supplier or service provider will only be able to have at its disposal the net amount of the receivable received. The amount of the tax will be frozen on a separate VAT account, and it is clear that the taxable person can or can freely operate from the moment of receipt of the funds until the tax is paid. Such a situation will be ruled out here, because it is clear that taxpayers need the full amount of dues, including the amount of taxes on goods and services, in order to fulfil their obligations. Providers and service providers may be subject to various pressures, e.g. pressure on the fact that if a respected counterparty does not agree to a reduction in the price, I will give it a split payment, and that is no longer in line with the principles of equal competition. In practice, agreements may be concluded whereby payment for goods or services will be made in a traditional form, precisely as a result of such pressure as I have said. In addition, it should be stressed that the introduction of a split payment mechanism will be costly primarily for entrepreneurs. It will be expensive for banks, but banks will switch it to entrepreneurs. Given the above-mentioned characteristics of the split payment - and that is what the Minister did not say - this mechanism is not widely used in the European Union. He's practically in Italy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Czech Republic, and to a limited extent. Now Romania is making this alliance. It would therefore be important to consider how, in the course of legislative work - because such measures are possible - to eliminate the disadvantages of split payments so that all the negative consequences that I have said here do not appear, especially since the Ministry has some prospects for this payment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u78	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the government's draft law introducing, among others. split payment mechanism. The tax on goods and services is the most important source of revenue for the state budget, and that is beyond doubt. The introduction of split payment is a change of accounts between the supplier and the buyer of the goods or services. The net payment shall be paid to the current supplier's account, the amount of tax - to a special tax account serving only to the tax office. The implementation of split payment aims at eliminating fraud and fraud and improving VAT collection. The split payment mechanism will not be used in transactions and in retail trade. It is the taxable person, the trader, who indicates the amount of the tax to be paid under the split payment mechanism. The joint and several liability of both parties to the transaction is envisaged. The application of the split payment mechanism is that, first, the payment of an amount corresponding to all or part of the amount of tax resulting from the invoice received is made to the VAT account. The payment of all or part of the amount corresponding to the net sales value of the invoice received shall either be made to a bank account or to an account in the cooperative credit and savings account for which the VAT account is kept or shall be settled by other means. For each billing account, the bank will have to keep a separate VAT account to pay the amount corresponding to all or part of the amount of the tax on goods and services, to pay the amounts of the tax on goods and services by taxable persons, to transfer funds from another VAT account to the holder of the VAT account held in the same bank and to refund the tax. Of course, there are other technical issues. If there is insufficient funds in the billing account to pay the amount corresponding to the gross value of the sale indicated in the transfer notice, the bank shall not carry out the transfer. Upon receipt of the cash for an amount corresponding to the amount of the tax on goods and services indicated in the transfer notice, the bank that maintains the taxable person's settlement account shall charge that account with an amount equal to the amount of the tax on goods and services and shall recognise that amount of the VAT account of the taxable person. At this point, we have our attention. In general, the implementation of the split payment mechanism will reduce the liquidity of clearing entities in this way their claims. In short, they will not be able to have their own funds collected on a separate VAT account. The question arises as to whether it is true that payments such as, for example, cannot be regulated from the account. personal salaries, social and health contributions, income tax advances, etc. In general, there will be a restriction on the freedom to dispose of the taxpayer's financial resources. In addition, possible payments must also be partially authorised by the tax office. An additional problem is this: at the moment about 400 billion PLN is missing in circulation in our country, and at this point we are eliminating another value. Almost 1/3 of the measures will be re-inhibited on the Polish market. The Poselski Kukiz Club 15 recommends further proceding the bill in order to eliminate any problems related to this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u81	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws, print no. 1864. The draft law provides for the introduction into the system of clearing the tax on goods and services of a new instrument sealing the VAT collection system in the form of a split payment mechanism. The main objective of this mechanism is to divide the payment for the goods or services supplied into a net amount which is paid by the purchaser to the account of the supplier or service provider and the amount of VAT which is directly entered in a separate VAT account. From this separate VAT account, the taxable person could pay VAT and could pay his tax obligations on goods and services to the tax office. The solution proposed in the project assumes voluntaryity in the application of the split payment mechanism. The purchaser of goods and services will decide on the application of this mechanism, but this decision will also affect the supplier of goods or services, i.e. the seller will be forced to participate in this mechanism. In order to encourage taxpayers, the Ministry provides for a number of facilitations in the draft, at least as a justification. One of these facilitations is a quicker refund of the amount of VAT, but on time - note - 25 days. Minister! It's not an accelerated return. At the moment, at the request of the taxable person, VAT shall be refunded within 25 days. So don't tell me it's some kind of handicap related to the application of the split payment mechanism. The project also includes additional mechanisms or facilitations for taxable persons using this mechanism, so the possibility to waive sanctions by determining whether the amount of the additional obligation is set in case of errors in the settlement of the tax on goods and services, or whether you assume that if the taxable person in the composite declaration displays a tax charged at least 95% of the purchase invoices, then he will also be able to benefit from a lower amount of interest in case of late payment. However, all these mechanisms in my opinion do not compensate for the negative consequences that may affect entrepreneurs. Firstly, this may lead to a reduction in the liquidity of companies. This is due to the fact that in this mechanism the funds received for VAT due cannot be used by companies for ongoing non-VAT settlement operations. Thus, companies may have to bear additional costs associated with the need to borrow to cover liquidity losses or the loss of the management benefits of the available funds. The previous speaker said that another 1/3 of the capital in the market would be frozen in such accounts. Secondly, the trader will incur additional costs to adapt the IT and accounting systems. The systems will need to be updated in view of the need to use the transfer forms used to make payments in a divided manner. Thirdly, expenditure on current accounting services related to, among others, will certainly increase. with the need to monitor the receipts on your own VAT account and to make any corrections in the wrong transactions. Fourthly, you assume that the taxpayer will be able to benefit from the funds collected in this account with the permission of the head of the tax office but issued in the form of a provision within 60 days. It should be considered whether this is too long a period for the taxpayer to apply for reimbursement of its own funds. It's very illusory. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance failed to estimate the costs for taxpayers who will eventually apply this mechanism, resulting in a lack of real forms of compensation in the Act related precisely [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the use of the split payment method, as well as the pathologies that Professor Nykiel referred to here. However, given the fact that this law aims to eliminate the pathology, which is undoubtedly the VAT gap, the Posel Club The state-of-the-art requests that the bill be passed to the committees for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch presented his position on behalf of the Modern Club. And now, please, on behalf of the Polish People's Party, Mrs Genowef Tokarska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and on certain other laws, print No. 1864. The draft law introduces a new tool to settle VAT, so-called. split payment mechanism. This mechanism consists in dividing the payment for the goods and services supplied into a net amount, which is paid by the purchaser to the account of the supplier or service provider, and the amount of VAT which goes directly to a separate VAT account, which is, of course, operated on strict terms. This mechanism is intended to ensure better transparency of VAT settlements and make it more difficult to transfer money abroad. The bill provides for voluntary application of this mechanism and the tax authorities do not have access to the account without the taxpayer's consent. There are also numerous incentives or benefits for taxpayers who will use the split payment mechanism. Such incentives include not applying sanctions under the VAT Act to these taxable persons, nor will the provisions on joint and several liability for VAT clearance apply, and the government also says that there will be faster settlement of excess VAT returns, or a higher amount of interest for late VAT payments will not be collected in some cases. By keeping a separate VAT account, the taxable person will be able to demonstrate that he is carrying out VAT settlements with due care. I must say that this argument is very important to us. Despite certain limitations in the ability of businesses to provide their own resources with an argument of transparency, the possibility of showing themselves to the tax authorities at any time is important, even further, if there is even an offer of exemption from joint and several liability for VAT settlement. This is indeed a problem for many honest entrepreneurs today, and it is therefore worth considering the launch of this mechanism, all the more so because it is voluntary. I would like to point out that this is a minor change, but it has many consequences and changes in the laws: and in the Accounting Act, and in the Tax Order, and in the Bank Law, and of course in the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks. In Bank Law, this project even introduces an additional chapter of the Mon. VAT account. Banks and SKOKs will have whether or not they have an obligation to keep these accounts - accounts in Polish currency, which do not require a separate agreement or may not involve additional commissions and charges for the bank, i.e. on general terms. The project under discussion also contains a number of technical solutions for the operation and operation of the VAT account with these many limitations. According to the government, the adoption of the project will increase the revenue of the state budget in the following years of operation of the split payment mechanism, ultimately even in the amount of about PLN 9 billion. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of transferring the project to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u84	Thank you very much, Member. Ten persons entered on the list of Members wishing to ask a question in this section of the meeting. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. He begins asking questions by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u85	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, is it true that the decision to use the split payment system and at the same time to decide whether the seller will freely own the tax will be taken by the purchaser? It should be stressed that leaving the new mechanism to the buyer alone makes the mechanism not fully optional. The financial situation of the seller will depend on the buyer's decision. In practice, this means a serious threat to the liquidity of sellers, an excessive limitation of the right to own ownership and a breach of the principle of VAT neutrality. Will the legislator, to minimise the negative effects of the split payment, listen to the voices of entrepreneurs and consider the possibility of paying other public obligations from the VAT account, among others. ZUS contributions, income taxes and property taxes? Has the legislator estimated the costs to be incurred by entrepreneurs due to the risk of liquidity in accounting costs or the cost of introducing new IT tools? And will the legislator listen to the voices of entrepreneurs [[♪ The bell ♪]] and will consider shortening the deadline by which the head of the tax office may agree to the other allocation of the funds collected in the VAT account, from the proposed law 90 days to 1 month? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Will the split payment mechanism be automatic or manual? In its application, account must be taken, in particular, of the estimated time and cost of implementing this system. At this point in time, businesses will need to adapt to new payment systems and accounting systems. Here is the question whether the Ministry was wondering what additional costs companies would have to pay, who would be required to maintain and operate the clearing system and whether at the moment it was taken into account to exempt companies from these additional costs in order to balance the costs of the whole system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u89	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation in which we have late payments, which very often occurs in today's economic turnover. We also have uniform control files and, due to the discrepancy in payment deadlines, these deadlines may be scattered. Then it's gonna be short on the VAT account, and in theory it should be. Therefore, I would very much ask you to answer the question of how this will work. At the same time or even partial payments will also be shared, will it be possible to pay the principal amount, then VAT, or vice versa? How does it look on this project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u91	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Not without a Cossack in the countries of the European Union, only two countries use this instrument in principle. It is because it is a very costly instrument, which is also very hard on the Polish economy. [[To a limited extent.]] However, this instrument is particularly charged to the banking sector, which will bear very significant costs associated with the obligation to open a VAT account. You estimate this at almost PLN 2 billion. Is this the target amount and is there any possibility for the State budget to compensate for these costs? As I have pointed out above, the voluntaryity of this system in the event of weak incentives and high costs may result in the adoption of this law, and it will de facto be an instrument which will not be used more widely in economic activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first refers to the term "voluntary" often used here. The Minister used it several times, but not only. We have heard that this mechanism is voluntary. I therefore ask: Is the split payment mechanism voluntary for the supplier or service provider? And if so, maybe we should not use the word "voluntary," because for these entities it is not voluntary. And that's the euphemism that's supposed to make us friends with this mechanism. Secondly, I understand that as the project is presented, its advantages are exposed, but as for how it will look further, I have this question: Can the Ministry not see [[♪ The bell ♪]] No flaws in this mechanism? Because we have heard nothing about this in the Minister's speech, and the answer to this question will show us how the further stages of the procession in the Seym may look like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u95	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This distribution of payments a little Treasury washes hands, wants to isolate itself a little bit from the market, has its own in its account, and entrepreneurs as tired as they were, so let them tire out, their business. So I want to tell you what the problem is. Today, the payment deadline, which is around 40 days on average, goes beyond the VAT payment date, so someone has to finance this gap. Now it will probably be financed by entrepreneurs who are not late in VAT, because the money excluded from the market will wait calmly and everyone will be happy except entrepreneurs. 400 billion PLN in turnover between payment deadlines is a fact and this 400 billion is above the national budget, entrepreneurs finance mutual claims, so I think it is necessary to think about how to arm the Polish market primarily with money, which is clearly lacking. As regards individual VAT settlements [[♪ The bell ♪]] every invoice, I think to myself that this is a topic on which we have to talk separately, because this is a very important monetary problem of the Polish economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u96	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. Companies, accounting offices after these changes will need to update, among others. IT and accounting systems. I have a question in this regard: Do we have an estimate of the burden this will bring precisely for entrepreneurs, accounting offices on a national scale? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, also a Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u99	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Will this solution increase the costs of the tax offices and increase employment in entities serving such solutions? And also: Will the tax offices remain with the same employment as it is today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u100	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The tax on goods and services is undoubtedly the most important source of revenue for the state budget. The split payment mechanism is needed and it is good that the government took care of it and sealed the tax system in Poland, but I wanted to ask how it will be presented after the entry into force of this law to the taxable persons. Because at the moment, small companies, by accumulated their tax-bearing expenditure, are really sponsoring the state budget by taking loans and waiting for VAT to be refunded often even up to 4 months. Will there be a change in favour of taxpayers? I also wanted to ask: What will be the cost of introducing a split payment mechanism for entrepreneurs? Because this bill is a heavy burden. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for entrepreneurs and I think you will pay particular attention to this during the process, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u102	Thank you very much. Last question - Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u103	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As far as the project is concerned, there may indeed be situations such as the fact that there is a deposit of funds on the VAT account, which will certainly not be indifferent to the liquidity of certain taxpayers, but this problem meets the Article. 1, amendment four and inserted Article. 108b. I would like to ask the Minister what this will be like in practice. Because, in fact, these mechanisms were provided for in the draft law. We are talking about the release of funds on the VAT account. I would like to specifically ask the Minister how this added article will be implemented in practice. 108b. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u104	Thank you. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Paweł Gruza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking. I will try to discuss a few threads in your questions together. With regard to the start of this, i.e. the decision to use the split payment mechanism by the couple supplier - the buyer, this decision is actually taken together. [[And it's in the regulations somewhere?]] If the supplier excludes the possibility to pay under the split payment mechanism, then there are appropriate civil law instruments which may result in such a mechanism not being applied, in the entire civil law instrument, which allows such provisions to be included. whether under the general terms and conditions of entry into contracts, or in individual contracts that can simply eliminate this type of payment from the supplier's offer. However, it is clear that the elimination of such a priori transfer in the split payment mechanism may raise doubts for the buyer as to the tax fairness of the supplier, and the whole mechanism is embedded in this element of doubt. We cannot criticize this voluntary one, saying that it is a flaw in this project, because it makes sense for this dishonest taxpayer to be idealized from the trading system. What you're describing as a flaw... This system, unfortunately, is an element of this system an advantage. The customer should be able to approach the supplier honestly and tell him: I want to pay you in a split payment, and if this type of delivery and payment are not of interest to you, then I do not trade with you because I fear joint responsibility, responsibility resulting from case law and the involvement in the merry-go-round. So what you're describing as a flaw is the heart of this project. The aim is to protect an honest taxpayer who wants to demonstrate care and security, so that he simply does not deal with a potentially dishonest entity. So, as far as the very fact of making a decision is concerned, who is taking it, this decision is common, with emphasis on the fact that we are giving the buyer an instrument of protection from an unfair supplier. This is the heart of this project. As to whether it is an automatic or manual mechanism, this question cannot be answered: yes or no, because it is more complicated. If, in the financial and accounting system, the taxpayer chooses to use the split payment mechanism, the mechanism will be viewed as virtually automatic from the point of view of transfer services, while the decision to use it itself will be sewn up in the decision of the accounting officer, the financial director or the President whether or not to apply the mechanism. At the level of the transfer and at the technical level of the Elixir message it is a manual system. The automatic system is often understood, also in European Union documents, as a system in which the bank takes responsibility for dividing the financial stream into these two variables. This system where the banks have, so to speak, power over the sharing of payments, we do not introduce, and in this sense He's not automatic. As far as the thread of payment congestion is concerned, it is a very complicated subject. We're in the process of analyzing this phenomenon. We also have contacts with organisations that analyse this issue in depth. We hope to conduct in-depth surveys on the phenomenon of payment congestion. It is obvious, for example, that players with a strong economic position abuse their position by extending payment deadlines. It is obvious that there is a completely negative situation when even the interest paid by these stronger players for extending payment deadlines, then, on the other hand, are invoiced to the weaker counterparty to compensate for this. These things are known to us and we are in the process of developing such a set of rules, both on income tax and VAT, which are to address this issue comprehensively. However, I would like to point out that the simple methods used during the Civil Platform's term of office to throw out unpaid invoices led to the collapse of part of the construction industry. We do not plan to introduce such primitive provisions, because they are destructive in the case of this weaker part of the economy. What happened back then was a scandal. Unfortunately, in order to address the problem of payment congestion correctly, we would need to create a certain indicator, a balance of payments index per company, and here we come to the problem of complications of tax law. This means that in order to address the problem of payment congestion well, it would be necessary to build a phenomenally complicated system of assessment of whether the company is holding payments, whether it is not holding them, and only there is for example. the victim of holding at an earlier stage of the supply chain. We are between the complexity of the rules and the solution to the problem, but I would like to say that the split payment mechanism introduces the principle of payment in the invoice mechanism. This means that the company accounting system, also at the interface of a strong entity - a weak entity, will be more transparent because we will be able to easily identify the pace of handling the invoices in question. Today, settlements between companies can be carried out in a cumulative manner, i.e. one transfer into multiple invoices, including settlement of discounts, compensations, etc. This makes the system not transparent. The split payment mechanism forces you to make a transfer per invoice, because the invoice number will be a variable of the elixir message, which makes the whole payment system more transparent. If we are talking about congestion, I would also like to say that the mechanism in which the company benefits from this VAT revenue in the period up to the time of payment of value added tax applies to those most often highly favoured in the market. Who's got the excess VAT? As a rule, the excess VAT on the account has entities that collect payments more quickly from their customers and pay their suppliers later. These entities are most often strong, dominant entities, which are able to force such relations with counterparties, and we do not see the need for these entities to think very long about their problem caused by the split payment mechanism. However, there are entities on the market that have a financial situation or a business model that is not optimal and financing non-vatovous commitments from the economic value of VAT for the sale of invoices. As far as these companies are concerned, first of all, there is a limit to how far we can go with preferences in legislation itself. I think we've reached our maximum, we can't imagine addressing the problem of this type of company, which, for example. They finance their VAT salaries to get there by the end of the month, and then they find VAT money to pay. We are not in a position to address this problem legally. [[But that's the truth.]] However, we are working with state financial institutions to build an adequate offer of bridge financing that will compensate for the liquidity gap in certain situations where it appears. I believe that companies that have this kind of liquidity problem should occur or take advantage of some kind of restructuring advice, because this type of business model is dangerous for both themselves and their employees and the trust fund, because the slightest note of liquidity makes them not pay either ZUS or VAT or salary. I perfectly understand life and also perfectly understand that uncertainty about the integrity of the contractor also has costs for the economy. It's very expensive. There are industries that pay X% their turnover only in order to spend on financial institutions such as banks and insurance, insurance companies for guarantees to enable them to trade, and these guarantees year by year were increasingly expensive for these sectors. Why? Because there were mass frauds in a given sector and no insurer wanted to guarantee this turnover for normal prices because it was never known whether the other side was fair or unfair. In this project, we are not able to quantify it, but we know empirically that there is a huge cost for the economy to guarantee uncertain trading. The split payment mechanism causes these costs to be eliminated from the economy. We didn't quantify that, but we know that's the result. We have industries that even demand us to introduce this mechanism because it will free up the market and contractors will only be trading with each other. Therefore, we did not quantify and enter these advantages because they are macroeconomically very difficult to establish. However, at this stage, as it falls from the hall here, this is life, this is life, that these costs are borne by the economy and are unnecessary, they do not cause any real GDP growth. This is the lost cost of uncertainty in the system and this system, reducing uncertainty, will have a positive effect on the whole economy. With regard to shortening the VAT refund period, here we need to distinguish between two VAT refunds. The first VAT refund is such a very classic VAT refund, i.e.: I bought, exported and I have an excess tax over due. It's obviously a turning point. The fact is, I used the words "shortening the term." A 25-day period is entered. Today, in fact, this term exists in the regulations. It is burdened with a very long list of conditions which in principle are not met by taxpayers, while the split payment mechanism and reimbursement to this particular account will make this possibility more efficient. So, as far as you can talk about the fact that legislation doesn't shorten the deadline for payment, in reality, in the business reality, availability of the deadline for 25 days for reimbursement will increase. One could say that it will become common on an exceptional basis. Therefore, in the legislative sense, we do not shorten, in the economic sense, shortening this possibility by making it possible. As far as implementation costs are concerned, here are some aspects. Firstly, there are obvious costs for the implementation of the split payment by the banking sector. Here we cooperate actively with the Polish Bank Association as well as with the clearing house as well as with individual banks. This trial is going on. There's some respect for the cost of implementation. I think he's being overestimated on the bank side after all. Remember, if we're talking about extortion, let's take the lowest amount of 20 billion a year. This means that for 20 billion the gross amount of PLN 123 billion of the transfer had to be paid. If the carousel has, let's say, 5 cells, it's 5 x 123 and there's already a certain sum of billions of billions. This kind of turnover has been carried out by banks and banks for years without any knowledge of such financial operations with such huge values. And here I want to say that, unfortunately, the banking sector is expected to make an effort to eliminate this phenomenon and the banks are fully aware of it. With regard to the implementation of this system on the taxpayers' side, we have a number of leading companies that provide financial and accounting software. These companies are fully aware of this legislative process, the functionality of this system. It is often the case that changes in these systems are, so to speak, in the standard. I mean, when it comes to financial and accounting problems, it's just customized. A number of companies with their systems will, of course, have to implement these changes as if manually, alone. This is their choice, however, that they use this model more tailored to the IT system than standard solutions that, as I say, will be adapted. With regard to shortening this 60-day deadline, this thread also appeared here in the country's questions and earlier in the press, we would like to say that this will be an exceptional, specific and marginal situation, a situation in which the taxpayer will have the characteristics of purchases and sales, which would put VAT values on this limited-access account. There is a 60-day return date, but it seems that we will be able to handle it in a shorter time due to the assumed success of the dissemination of data from the JPK and soon to switch to the functionality of the Central Register of Invoices, which makes it a significant decrease in terms of real control deadlines. And we've been watching it this year. If taxpayers are able to properly prepare for the submission of JPK files, to use the Central Registry of Invoices, all these returns and controls will change qualitatively by significantly shortening them. Asking for new jobs at KAS. It won't. There are no plans for new jobs in KAS. Of course, we need to adapt our IT to the calculation of this account, which is compensation for this liquidity gap that we have written down in the legislation. The question was whether the suspended returns finance the state budget and VAT revenue. I'd like to deny those talks for the time being, because that's how I read it. Average returns fall from year to year. As regards the cumulative non-refundable VAT, this also falls in value. It is therefore not true that we finance the budget from the pockets of entrepreneurs. If the question is whether the Ministry of Finance sees the shortcomings of this project, it is obvious that it is a mechanism that requires the entrepreneur to lean over it. This is a flaw, as if implementing. Is this a salvation for the VAT system? No, there is no single instrument that causes the system to leak overnight. Only the cumulation and co-ordination of the elements of the split payment mechanism, the central invoice register, STIR - today will also be the first reading of the project that concerns it - and a number of other VAT solutions, only the sum of these solutions determines the relative integrity of the system. No individual mechanisms of type, such as the first one on the shore, reversed VAT, which is just a prosthesis, and not a system solution, cause VAT sealing in a satisfactory way. Therefore, if you can talk about the defect of this project, it is not the salvation of the VAT system, but it is an important cog throughout the sealing machine. I think I've run out of answers to all the questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u106	Then thank you and I will close the discussion. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, contained in print No. 1864, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and certain other laws (prints 1833 and 1845). I ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on a draft government bill amending the Maritime Labour Act and some other laws. The Marshal of the Sejm sent it on 15 September this year. Draft law in print No 1833 to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for first reading, with a recommendation to submit a report by 9 October this year. Therefore, the committee at its meeting on 27 September this year. carried out the first reading and examined this draft law and adopted the report. The project aims to implement European Union law. It concerns the implementation in Polish law of Directive 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015 and the provisions of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention, called MLC, indicating the need for regular inspections of the working and living conditions of seafarers on ships flying the national flag. Implementation of amendments to Regulation 2.5 of the MLC: The purpose of repatriation is to clearly determine the extent of the costs of repatriation and to indicate that, where a ship owner of Polish nationality or the provider of safeguards in the event of abandonment of a seafarer does not take action to repatriate a seafarer, the repatriate shall be organised by the Director of the Maritime Authority responsible for the port of the ship in cooperation with the Consul of the Republic of Poland. Further proposals implement amendments to: the obligation for the ship owner to hold insurance or other financial security in the event of the abandonment of a seafarer, the obligation for the ship to hold a certificate confirming the abovementioned. the financial security issued by the provider of the security, specifying when the seafarer is deemed to have been abandoned. The draft law also lays down rules for the inspection of ships other than vessels referred to in Article. 92. 1 and 3 amended law, i.e. vessels with a gross tonnage of less than 500 whose shipowners have not applied for a certificate together with a declaration or a provisional certificate. The obligation to carry out inspections on such ships is now laid down in the Maritime Safety Act. Such inspections shall be carried out on the occasion of ship safety inspections, as practice shows, but such a solution does not ensure an adequate level of enforcement of the MLC provisions, and it is therefore necessary to introduce a dedicated inspection under the principles set out in MLC Regulation 5.1.4. The proposed arrangements include a delegation to the Minister responsible for maritime affairs to determine, by means of a regulation, the procedures for carrying out ship inspections. The fines imposed in the case of sailing by vessels which do not have adequate documents confirming compliance with the requirements for working conditions and life at sea are laid down - the MLC certificate or the provisional certificate - and the failure to submit the ship to an appropriate inspection. The fines resulting from the non-compliance with the provisions on the obligation of the company to have insurance or other financial liability in the event of abandonment have also been supplemented. Implementation of the EU Directive in Polish law is aimed at, among others, the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer, the establishment of a European Works Council, the establishment of a procedure for informing and consulting employees in undertakings or groups of undertakings of Community scope, and the establishment of a general framework for informing and consulting employees. During the work on the project, amendments were tabled clarifying the provisions of the draft law and of a legislative and editorial nature. The Commission accepted all the amendments tabled. The Commission adopted without objection a report on the draft law. I ask the High House to accept the report of the committee in print 1845. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u108	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Marcin Horala to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law that we are debating today, with all due respect for this law, is not one of the loudest, most important, attracting the most attention, but there is one aspect that makes it worth leaning on. It's worth it, but that's what makes it worth it too. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in this law concerning, in fact, a specific, very specific situation, above all, the situation of a seafarer, who has been left somewhere by a ship owner, to whom a ship owner fails to fulfil his obligations, manifests itself, in addition to the obvious obligation to implement the directive and amend the Maritime Labour Convention, a philosophy of what should be the state, which we would like the Polish state to be: to be strong towards the strong, but to be protective or even protective of the weaker interests, so as not to interfere directly, without acting as an economic operator, in the situation of the imbalance of the parties in the contract - although in formal terms of the civil relations of the parties to the agreement, they are equal, but the economic power and the actual ability to act on one side is much weaker - in the situation of a seafarer left somewhere, he left away from his country, often in an exotic country, with difficult access to the banking system, perhaps with difficult access to means of communication, such a seafarer did not leave himself. Then he deserves protection, care from the Polish state, even in the farthest corner of the globe. This is not only a matter of his civil relations with the ship owner, the ship owner is not exempted from any duties here, but in a situation where these obligations are not fulfilled, it is also the Polish state - it is specifically indicated that the Director of the Maritime Office is coordinating with the consul - he has his duties to his citizens, to the seafarers, to take care of them, to ensure that they return home and then to pursue claims against the party who was responsible for this, i.e. the ship owner who left such a sailor. Finally, the Act guarantees, ensures that these guarantees on the part of shipowners are real and not fictional, that they have financial security, whether in the form of insurance or other financial security, to cover any claims for the costs of bringing a sailor home or for failing to pay a salary or any claims that are attributable to a sailor to cover the costs related to his illness, damage to the body, do not give God, or such basic costs of living somewhere far abroad, where he did not find himself because he went on a trip, only because the same ship owner hired him to work, and consequently there are bilateral obligations: not only an employee vis-à-vis an employer, a special employer, in such a situation, greater than an employer vis-à-vis an employee in a situation where this work takes place within a few kilometers of his home, in Poland, where everyone can leave work and return to their home. A sailor left abroad has no such possibility, is exposed to organisational difficulties, to costs. It is very good that the State will help him in these difficulties if he fails to meet his obligations, to claim the costs he has to pay later and at the same time to ensure that the same company is prepared to bear such costs in order to meet its obligations so that the principle of freedom to conclude contracts is realistic, i.e. their execution was guaranteed and indeed the weaker party to the agreement was sure that its rights were guaranteed that it would not be left to itself. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club supports the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obrycki will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u111	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act and some other laws. This proposal assumes, as we have heard, the implementation of the Polish Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and the implementation of the 2014 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006. In practice, the provisions of the Convention are applicable to international maritime transport, regulating and covering essential issues relating to the mutual rights and obligations of shipowners, intermediaries and, above all, seafarers. These changes were particularly of interest to seafarers working on board ships, as the introduction of new international rules absolutely guarantees not only fair employment conditions for all seafarers but also the right to work in accordance with safety standards. Among the most important changes, it should be stressed that seafarers should be repatriated where the scope of the repatriation costs is clearly defined and that the entity required to cover these costs, i.e. The ship owner. The entity responsible for the recovery of repatriation costs shall also be identified in the event that the costs are not covered by the ship owner or have not been covered by the financial security provider in the event of abandonment of the seafarer. It seems appropriate that they will be directors of maritime offices. In addition, what should also be considered appropriate and desirable in order to ensure the safety of the work and life of seafarers is introduced, the obligation for the ship owner to have insurance in the event of the abandonment of the seafarer, as confirmed by the relevant certificate of financial security. The Civic Platform Club recognises the need for these amendments aimed at safeguarding workers' rights and the safety of seafarers and will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u113	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the government's draft law on amending the Law on Maritime Labour and some other laws. This project introduces into Polish law, among others. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015 implements, in our right, an amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, so-called. the MLC Convention, approved on 11 June 2014 in Geneva by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation. They were incorporated into the Polish legal system by the Law of 23 September 2016 on the ratification of the 2014 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention. The current legal situation has prevented seafarers from being included in the implementing acts or allowed the Member States of the European Union not to apply them to them. The new arrangements align the working conditions of seafarers with the standards for workers on land and introduce amendments to the 2014 Maritime Labour Convention, which provide adequate protection for seafarers, inter alia. in case of illness, injury or death. The new rules are designed to improve the working and living conditions of seafarers. Points 4 and 5 of Article shall provide for this to be the case. 1: The financial liability of shipowners. They introduce an obligation for the shipowners to have financial security for claims arising out of sickness, injury or death of a seafarer. The existence of a financial security will be confirmed by the certificate issued by the provider of the security carried on board, which is a requirement of the MLC as amended by the 2014 amendments. The project also sets out rules for inspections of ships not subject to an MLC certificate. A penalty of between 5 and 10 000 is foreseen for the infringement. zł. They will be measured, among others. for shipping without appropriate documents confirming compliance with the requirements for working conditions and life at sea. In addition, today's amendment to the Maritime Labour Act of 5 August 2015 will introduce in Article. 62a (2) definition of the situation in which a seafarer is deemed to have been abandoned. This will be the case if the ship owner fails to cover the costs of repatriation, leaves the seafarer without reasonable means of subsistence or otherwise ceases to carry out his duties arising from the employment relationship and, in particular, does not pay remuneration for work for at least 2 months. In conclusion, the proposal aims to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and the amendments of 2014 to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006. The effect of the regulation is to provide additional insurance protection for seafarers. The Kukiz Club15 recognises that additional safeguards are a good step. They will improve the working conditions and safety of seafarers and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u114	Thank you very much. And to speak, please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Club Parliamentary The modern one considers it a priority to respect and implement any binding provisions of Community law and international agreements in Poland. It cannot be concealed that this is one of the elements necessary to be able to talk about the Republic of Poland as a democratic state of law. Given that the draft law presented here aims to implement Directive 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015 amending Directive 2008/94/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, 2009/38/EC and Council Directives 98/59/EC and 2001/23/EC as regards seafarers and to implement the amendments of 2014 to the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, OJ No. U. z 2013 r., poz. 845, which provides proper protection for seafarers in the event of their abandonment, illness, injury or death, Modern view this project as appropriate. And the regulation itself at the statutory level is dictated by the fact that the Directives mentioned above and the Convention have been implemented by law. We believe that the obligation for a ship to hold a certificate of financial security issued by security providers in the event of abandonment, death or injury or of seafarers' illness will improve the legal situation in this regard. The same applies to the definition of legal abandonment of a seafarer. Special attention should be paid to the regulation of the repatriation of seafarers, the scope of costs and the bodies responsible for covering them. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I hope that all binding regulations will be respected and implemented by the Government of Law and Justice in accordance with Community law, international, constitutional law and with respect for the principles of correct legislation, so that the Polish legal system is a sure and transparent system. The Modern Posel Club expresses its support for this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome. Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As already stated in her statement, the Government's draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act and some other laws, prints 1833 and 1845 - as my predecessors said in her speech, presenting the process of working on it, Madam President, regulates the rules of repatriation abandoned by the seafarer, sets out the rules of insurance or other financial security, describes the procedure for certification of this security, also lays down rules for the payment of benefits to an abandoned seafarer, and describes the sanctions and penalties that may threaten the ship owner for failure to comply with the obligations imposed. In our view, this is the introduction to the legislative arrangements of the provisions expressing concern for man, for an employee who may, although he should not, be in a very difficult situation. The project also deals with inspections, inspection of the working conditions of seafarers who sometimes work very far away and under very difficult conditions. According to the club of the Polish People's Party, the project deserves support and this is what we will vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. On the other hand, as regards the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a written statement. Three people have entered the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. We therefore begin with the question of Mr Norbert Obrick, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A question for the Minister. This law is not controversial, it has a technical and legal dimension, it is the implementation of EU law. On the other hand, I would like to ask if the Ministry has any knowledge of the scale of the repatriation cases we are talking about. I'm not talking here or I'm not talking about such drastic events as marine accidents, I'm just thinking about, I don't know, cases of severe illness. Do we have discernment, taking into account the division into these accidents, of what extent of repatriation of Polish sailors are we talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch will ask another question from the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have already mentioned in my speech that certain amounts are foreseen for the infringement. These are punishments in the amount of 5 thousand. Up to 10,000. These are ships not subject to an MLC certificate. The question is, is this amount from $5,000? Up to 10,000. zł results from the implementation of the directive, whether it was created by the originators of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u122	Thank you very much. And one last question. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u123	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Amendment 5 proposes to add an article to the amended Law on Maritime Labour. 76a-76c. Art. 76a is proposed as follows: The operator is required to have insurance or other financial collateral, such as insurance or banking guarantee or other financial institution similar to the bank or insurance undertaking, liability to the extent referred to in Article. 73 and Article 73. 75, hereinafter referred to as the financial security of the company's liability. I would like to ask if there are certain amounts of this security, on which they are dependent and whether they will be amended in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u124	Thank you. With this question, we've exhausted the list of questions. Therefore, I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Grzegorz Witkowski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u125	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, First of all, I would like to say that the work on technical laws such as the Act discussed today and the cooperation with the Member States in committee or within working groups are really very substantive, creative and we value this contribution very much, because it shows that all the time the concern for people working at sea or working on land, which is no less important, can connect from right to left, which in previous years was not so obvious. Mr Kotowski touched on the substance of the problem in his speech, because the Ministry of Maritime Affairs - this is already the third or fourth law which implements EU law, delayed strongly - still has concern for seafarers, but on the other hand there are shipowners, which we also need to take into account, as well as their concern for economic activity, for the economic bill. Here we have precisely the case of the implementation of EU law, and it is really about social security, with which for many, many years there is a problem. As far as Polish flag ships are concerned, there is no problem with this, but there are very few of them, whereas when it comes to foreign flag ships, the enforcement of such compensations or repatriations, or even pensions for personal injury, means many years of proceedings before London courts, because there is arbitration. We do our best to help these people, but it's often impossible. I am also saying this in the context of the question of the Member of the Platform, what is the scale of this. Fortunately, there were no such cases in Poland, we did not meet with this, but on the scale of the world there are dozens of people. As far as penalties for shipowners are concerned, they are neither greater nor smaller than those for shipowners from other countries, they are comparable. We did not want to go out here before... to be more holy than the European Commission, especially since such penalties, when it comes to foreign shipowners, are in the interest of Polish seafarers. As for the fact that it did not occur in Poland - I hope it will continue so that Polish shipowners will not have to pay those penalties, which are not excessive in any way. Mr Gosievski asks what these amounts depend on. It depends on the number of vessels of the ship owner concerned and on the number of seafarers who may be covered in the future. As for the detailed calculations, I promise I'll send you a special answer because I can't accurately estimate this scale right now. Thank you very much for adopting this important law. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u127	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and some other laws. The project is implemented in national law by a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. The provisions presented concern, inter alia,: the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer, the establishment of a European Works Council or a procedure for informing employees of undertakings, the general framework for informing and consulting employees in the European Community, the protection of workers' rights in the event of the takeover of undertakings, establishments or parts of undertakings or establishments. The proposed amendments aim to protect seafarers from whom this group had previously been excluded. As a result of the amendment, a sailor returning from repatriation can count on compensation from a ship owner who, in accordance with the Act, will be responsible for this return. The amendments oblige shipowners to provide insurance for the return of a seafarer from repatriation. Insurance is also required when it comes to damage to the body or death of a sailor. This is a very good solution to increase the safety of workers. In line with the recommendation of the Ministry and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation near Free and Solidarnia, it will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u128	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and some other laws (print No. 1868). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Anna Surówka-Pasek, to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u129	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present on behalf of the President a bill amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance. This is a project that responds to the expectations of reforming this system, which was set up under the Law of 5 August 2015, 2 years of de facto functioning of this system of free legal assistance showed that it needs to be improved in order to improve the effectiveness of the benefits provided under this system to beneficiaries who can and could benefit from these services, and that it is worth expanding the range of services offered also about mediation or civic guidance. The data for the previous year, in which for the first time a system of free legal aid operated throughout the year, indicates that 237 thousand. benefits which were granted in 882 points led by lawyers and lawyers, as well as over 140 thousand. the benefits provided in 642 points run by NGOs, the average duration of such advice was between 15 minutes and 1 hour. It was up to 76% all the advice given. It is also worth noting that these advices, which lasted up to half an hour, represented more than 42% in this group all advice given, while more than 9% advice provided was advice that lasted no longer than 15 minutes. This indicates that the average number of advice provided per hour at one point of free legal assistance is one advice. One advice per hour at one point It's extremely small. Therefore, in view of this demand, the President decided to present a project to activate the actions and make more effective use of the opportunities created in 2015. The first group of amendments, which concerns the Law on Free Legal Aid and Legal Education, primarily concerns the extension of the circle of entities which are entitled to receive this assistance. This directory of entities will be expanded by the amendment to include persons who receive monthly income not exceeding 2 000. PLN per family member, and in the case of persons who run the household alone, 3 000. zł. In addition, the benefit will be granted to those who have received a family benefit, to provide education for the first child under the The catalogue of authorised entities has also been extended to include persons who are repatriates and within 5 years of the entry into force of the law will obtain Polish citizenship, as well as people who return from long-term migration lasting more than 5 years. They will also be able, regardless of their income, to obtain benefits within the framework of free legal assistance within a year from their return to Poland. The catalogue of benefits that can be obtained under free legal assistance has also been extended. First of all, it was also enriched with the possibility of obtaining legal advice at the stage of judicial, judicial and administrative proceedings or preparatory proceedings, and - unlike the original submission - the possibility to draw up a draft letter, not a procedural letter, but a letter which will aim at e.g. obtain a lawyer or a lawyer from the office. In addition, the project also offers the possibility to obtain support and advice in the field of tax, foreign exchange or economic law, although it continues to support the possibility of excluding from this range of benefits which are linked to the pursuit of business activities. Only, as under the 2015 Act, can advice be obtained as part of the establishment of an economic activity. The catalogue of services, which will be available as part of free assistance, has also been extended by free mediation. This is an expression or rather a response to the need for non-process dispute resolution in order to relieve the courts on the one hand and, on the other hand, to prevent many different conflict situations before they occur. Mediations will be provided at the same points where free legal services will be provided. Therefore, it will be provided by those who are competent to prepare and experience in this field. The Act also introduces a whole new kind of counseling, which is civic counseling. It is counseling, which has received great support and has gained great popularity in other European countries as well as in Poland. This is guidance, which is not limited to legal issues only, but also concerns issues such as: related to loans, various types of financial commitments, as well as related issues e.g. with apartments. Citizens' advice will be carried out under the law by the assistance points entrusted to non-governmental organisations. In this case, it is primarily about exploiting the potential of NGOs and their great experience in this area. The proposed amendment also allows older people to use time more flexibly, which is intended for free legal assistance. Within a five-day period of four hours, every day, on duty... It will be possible to specialize in these on-calls so that people who need very specialized advice in some area can come forward, or it will be advice that is addressed to certain groups of beneficiaries, e.g. such persons who are at risk of losing their apartment in connection with the reprivatization of tenements. In view of the changes introduced, there is also no provision for a burden on the State budget, because the proposed law simply provides for a more efficient use of the funds already available for free legal aid. In the framework of this amendment, it is planned that the limits resulting from the Article. The 28th 2015 Act will not increase. In view of the above, High Izbo, I would like to ask you to welcome this very important and important initiative of the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Daniel Milewski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The ignorance of the law is bad. This truth, derived from Latin parishes, expresses one of the basic principles of the law. Close to it is another paraemia, which means that no one can justify his actions or omissions that he does not know the law. In doctrine they are the basis of the principle that knowledge of the law has been common since Roman times. It would be difficult to live a stable social and economic life without such an assumption. However, the number of regulations is constantly increasing, from local to international level, with particular emphasis on the rules created in this Chamber. In many respects, help remains necessary, professional assistance provided by lawyers, by those who have taken on the task of continuing learning in the knowledge of the law. There are among us, in communities in our districts, however, those who, due to their material status or the situation of life, are unable to obtain professional legal assistance. The Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education of 2015 was to address this problem. Its aim was to create mechanisms for access to legal advice by people in a more difficult situation of life and to guarantee access to legal information for all. Unfortunately, already at the time of its adoption, mechanisms were visible that did not guarantee the effective achievement of its objectives, and two years of its application showed further areas that were worth the reaction of the legislator. In my office, but I'm guessing a lot of you came to the offices, and people said they were at that point of help, and they didn't get that help. And that is what needs to be fixed, and the presidential project is facing these changes, these challenges. The Presidential draft amendment provides for access to free mediation at the pre-trial stage. Such a solution offers the possibility of resolving conflicts even before judicial proceedings are opened and the number of cases which need to be resolved by the court is reduced. The Act will be supplemented by civic guidance in accordance with the project under consideration. As a result, those who have obtained advice and who have difficulty understanding the complex legal language will be able to supplement their knowledge. Another amendment is the introduction of provisions enabling legal information to be obtained in points of free legal assistance in the course of proceedings and not, as has been the case so far, only at the pre-trial stage. A catalogue of cases which are exempted under the current law will also be amended and will be limited to matters strictly related to the conduct of business, but with the exception of preparation for its start-up. The amendments also extend the catalogue of persons entitled to legal aid under the Act, including: for unemployed persons, disabled persons, indebted persons or persons in respect of whom an eviction claim has been filed or who have been terminated the lease of a dwelling. In addition, legal aid will be available to persons whose income per family member does not exceed 2 000. PLN or 3000. - in the case of single householders, and those persons who have been given a parental benefit for the first child on the basis of the Law on State aid to raise children, i.e. the Family 500+. The right to obtain free legal assistance will be based on the submission of the relevant document or the submission of a statement under the strictest responsibility. The Presidential project also introduces a novelty of the obligation to redirect a person entitled by a person providing free legal assistance to other aid schemes, provided that the problem presented by him is not merely legal. The Starosts will be obliged to publish a list of individuals who conduct free family, psychological, pedagogical, consumer rights, patient rights, social security, crisis intervention, family or addiction violence. The draft law presented by the President also seeks to regulate issues relating to the area of law or to the issue of free legal assistance or civic advice provided during the on-call period, and to identify the different locations of individual on-call units consisting of a single point in order to distribute them in such a way as to guarantee privacy and confidentiality, but also to facilitate the provision of assistance to customers of other support schemes. The Act also introduces provisions preventing the applicant from refusing to appoint a defender or a representative of his own motion in legal proceedings because of the applicant's use of free legal assistance or free of charge civic advice. According to the Parliamentary Club, the law and justice introduced by the bill is logical and coherent and, of course, we judge it [[♪ The bell ♪]] Positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u132	Thank you very much. Civic Platform Club - Mrs Katarzyna Osos. Please, on behalf of this club, the honourable Member will present the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u133	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the presidential draft of amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education. This proposal provides for changes which are essentially expressed in the extension of the scope of the subject matter and the law in question, a change in the procedure for the selection of non-governmental organisations providing unpaid legal assistance, the possibility for non-governmental organisations to provide free of charge civic guidance and the possibility for local authorities to define specific points of free assistance. In principle, the very idea of extending the catalogue of entities entitled to receive free legal assistance should be assessed positively, as it remains in the spirit of the assumptions drawn up in 2015 by the Government of the Civic Platform Act, whose regulation would lead to the creation of mechanisms for access to legal advice by all those persons who, due to their material status or their living situation, are unable to obtain professional legal assistance. However, the broadly defined catalogue proposed in the presidential project of entities entitled to obtain free legal advice should be reviewed in the context of the constitutional principle of equality criteria, in the light of the possible effects that this regulation may have on the legal services market, and finally in the context of the impact on the functioning of points of free legal assistance themselves. The proposed regulations may also make those more in need of assistance longer await advice. There is also doubt about the possibility for local authorities to define specific points of free legal aid. In fact, the specialisation of points poses a risk of limiting the availability of legal assistance to those in real need of it. Unpaid legal assistance points to enable them to carry out the tasks entrusted in a realistic and efficient way should respond as universally as possible to citizens' needs for legal assistance. In addition, indicate it is necessary that the introduction of the possibility to specialise in points of free legal aid should be combined with the answer to the question of how people who run such specialized points will be identified and on the basis of which criteria local authorities will decide on their specialization. It is also doubtful that the voivodeship is assigned competence to draw up a list of non-governmental organisations entitled to carry out points of free legal assistance and civic guidance. In the light of the proposed solution, NGOs will apply for inclusion in the list led by the voivode. The consequence of such a form of regulation, and probably the aim in itself, unfortunately, is the centralisation of the system, because this certainly does not lead to an improvement of the system of free legal assistance. The draft amendment also introduces, in addition to legal advice, civic guidance. The Civic Platform Club does not oppose the very idea of civic guidance and its implementation, but it should be noted that the proposed change will contribute to reducing the potential of points of free legal assistance on legal advice. In addition, it should be recommended to allocate a separate envelope to finance this part of the task. High Izbo! The proposed changes, which are intended to make full use of the potential of the point-of-free aid scheme, must at the same time involve the introduction of promotion instruments at central and local level and should also focus on the introduction of tools to implement the demands for legal education. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, recognising the need to discuss the design of a system of free legal assistance, taking into account past experience in the operation of points of free assistance, and recognising the need to modify the proposal proposed in the presidential amendment to the Law of Solutions, requests that the project be submitted to the committees for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u134	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Jachnik will perform on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Incidentally, I don't really know how to respond to this project because it would have to start with one thing: Is this free legal assistance working and isn't it too expensive at the moment? Because none of you say that today the cost of advice provided by the so-called. non-governmental organization - on purpose I say: so-called, I will come back to it - is on average about 270 PLN and by the bar team - 240 PLN. In other words, if we gave a gift to a person today through the ILOS, it would cost counseling half as much. In turn, mediation is the main element proposed by the President's firm. But, ladies and gentlemen, mediation cannot be done within 15 minutes or half an hour. First you have to meet with one side, then you have to meet with the other side, and then you have to convince two parties to do so. The judge, the marshal, I think, knows best what mediation looks like. This cannot be done as part of free legal advice unless we want to fire the baby with a bath and simply lead to such a situation that no one will want to mediate. Now, the question is who's going to be the mediator. Because there's a division, before there was a division... I'm saying so-called. NGOs, because, ladies and gentlemen, how does this work in practice? I've been doing my civic guidance for 17 years. I'll tell you one more thing. All the countries that conduct legal counsel in their offices without a lawyer, according to the Law on Legal Assistance, you do so illegally. There's something to be done about this thing, from start to finish. This counseling thing doesn't work because it's wrongly arranged. If a non-governmental organization has to accept lawyers or sign with them to get a certain number of points, then the same lawyer becomes a member of the organization and pays for it because it has to give something on it, it is pure fiction that exists. In fact, all points of free legal assistance must be carried out by lawyers or lawyers, whether they are non-governmental or not. So let's not build fiction and not support it yet. I would, for example. He very much wished, on behalf of the Kukiz15 movement, that either the Ministry or the President's law firm should come up with such a comprehensive project that would alter this fiction which is. So that's like, uh... We should consider that in this pure counseling these vouchers... Why spend money on something that costs twice as much if it's implemented through organizations or through bar association? It just doesn't make sense. He could give these birth certificates to the ILOS. This width... This project, as I watched it, has 141 pages. I'll be honest with you, we're in another game of paperwork, which will also be a myth of time. So I have my doubts: I would like to ask, and we would be in favour of directing this project to work, just wondering if we would leave then, Minister, outside the scope of the project and if we could change it in committees later so far that it would give these people something. Dividing it right now will, you might say, three parts. Half are counsel and legal counsel, and the other half, divided in half, have non-governmental organisations, some dealing with civic counseling, and the other half have legal counsel. And I'm getting a little dizzy. We have to make it clear to ourselves: either there is civic guidance and they can be run by NGOs, or there is professional guidance and lawyers do it. And now the question is what access to these lawyers is supposed to be. It seems to me personally that we are unable, Minister, to construct this law so that, under this bill, the presidential project can function. In this situation, I would like to ask the Minister: Isn't it worthwhile to work this project so that he can enter into the proceedings and make sense that it makes sense to draw up such a law so that it simply meets our expectations? We're talking non-governmental organisations. Well, I'm going to say that lawyers two years ago started associations so that after two years they could regain the status of a public benefit organization, and they sought such projects. I'll give you the address exactly, Bielsko-Wiała. The deal is, in the county they get 0 points, and in the city they get max. On the other hand, with the other organization they're trading with, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They take all the projects... That's where they get the maximum. That's where they get the minimum. So let's not do fiction, that's what I call on you to do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u136	Thank you. On behalf of the Modern Club, Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u137	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and some other laws, print No 1868. There is no doubt that the most important real problem we face is the low legal awareness of society, but this project does not pay proper attention to the element of legal education. The project lacks a clear indication of school activities as a form of compulsory legal education for the younger part of society. The legislative proposal provides for the introduction of new services that can be obtained in the network of points of free legal assistance and free civic guidance, including the possibility of mediation. However, the implementation of mediation at legal aid points, firstly, raises doubts due to the unclear relationship between the draft and the standards governing this issue in the Code of Civil Procedure. Secondly, in order for mediation to be carried out professionally, the procedure should be carried out in a friendly environment and tranquillity, which, unfortunately, part of the legal assistance points may not guarantee, for example, because only 3% of the subsidy is foreseen under the Act to cover the costs of operating the organizational and technical task, namely the running of legal and civic advice offices. On the other hand, the specificity of such a point of mediation should be that this is not a 15-minute procedure, but it requires calmness and appropriate instrumentation as well. Third, the availability of free mediation may be limited because an entry on lists of permanent mediators led by district courts is required. There is still a small number of mediators whose activities are often concentrated in larger urban centres, and a small number of lawyers and legal advisers in the number of mediators listed by the Presidents of the District Courts. Moreover, it is likely that in the case of persons providing free legal assistance and free legal advice, there will almost always be a condition excluding mediation or mediation. It is unlikely that, when a person goes to such a point, he will not discuss a case which will be the subject of mediation, and this will simply exclude from the further procedure. Furthermore, the project under investigation does not restrict the use of free legal assistance to one single aid in one case and only in the case of entitled persons, which may result in abuse of the fact that someone is going from point to point in the same case or is seeking assistance in the case of an unauthorised person. In the modern opinion, the creation of a list of non-governmental organisations entitled to provide free legal assistance should be regarded as incomprehensible and even harmful. In our opinion, a competition is enough, this list is simply redundant. On the other hand, it is appropriate to introduce provisions preventing the applicant from refusing to appoint a lawyer or an agent of his own motion in legal proceedings because of the applicant's use of free legal assistance and free of charge advice from citizens. Unfortunately, however, the proposal also introduces legal aid in the course of legal proceedings, which is already part of the scope of regulation of a complementary system of legal assistance in judicial proceedings. However, given that the project significantly extends the scope of persons entitled to free legal assistance and extends the scope of this assistance, it also introduces assistance in the form of civic guidance, the Posel Club The modern proposal is to refer the bill to further work in the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u138	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. But before you begin, I would like to welcome the members of the Association for Disabled Persons present at the gallery, the Helpful Hand from Dąbrowa Tarnowska. [[Applause]] Nice to meet you. I see that there are young people on the other side of the gallery, and I wish you all the same. [[Applause]] Enjoy your stay in the Seym and, I hope, enjoy it. And now Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I will join you in these wishes made by your marshal to our guests. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present our position on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and some other laws contained in print No. 1868. At first - I think I will not be isolated in my assessment - I will express satisfaction that we are proceeding on this project at times quite acute and certainly lively discussions on changes in Polish judiciary, on changes in the wider justice system. In this debate, the arguments are used that positive changes, good changes - many on the right hand side of the room use such terms - will be possible when we change the Supreme Court when we change the National Judicial Council. From the very beginning, I and my club of the Polish People's Party thought that this legal aid, which is the subject of the project under investigation, was a step towards improving the justice system, improving the Polish judiciary, which was much more to the contrary to this universal feeling, which we have not denied since the beginning of this debate, which in spring this year began to take on temperature, that this is the essence of the problem and that this bitterness concerning the Polish courts, the justice system, and often even the authorities comes from this, for example, because it is not the perfect formula of free legal advice, free legal advice. Thus it is not only in Poland, but also throughout Europe, and it is nothing unusual, it is no reason to be ashamed, to complexes, that not everyone can afford to fully use the instruments of legal protection, to make full use of the instruments available at the various stages of judicial, administrative proceedings, also at their initial stages. The first step was taken in 2016. Very often the previous government is placed under the hierarchy and burdened with the fact that nothing has been done for many years in terms of improving access to justice, to courts, including through legal assistance. This is just one example that is worth showing as proof that it was done. Of course, I think that even those who often say these words, that nothing has been done, well know that not everything can immediately be implemented in such a satisfactory way. And that's probably what happened when it comes to points of free legal advice. They need to be improved, they need to be extended. It is with satisfaction to admit that this project, a project by the President of the Republic, is just such a step towards improvement. What's important and good about this project? First of all, the extension of the group of persons entitled to legal aid. This is undoubtedly a request that deserves recognition. We also appreciate the introduction to the system in addition to legal advice so-called. Citizen guidance. It's also something that we appreciate. There is definitely no approval regarding the club of the Polish People's Party, in the case of the elimination of non-governmental organizations, which today can provide guidance in a free way. Once the proposed law has entered into force in its unchanged form, we will have to deal with such licensing, which will also be another example of such a centralization element. However, this does not change the view of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we want work to continue on the project in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u140	Thank you, sir. Nine people entered the list of people who wanted to ask a question at this point. Would any of you like to sign in? You're welcome, so it's a total of 10. I don't see any more, which is why I'm closing the list. Please, we begin with Mrs Halina Szydłoko, club Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It is undoubtedly appropriate to extend the circle of persons entitled to free legal assistance, especially as regards mediation at the pre-trial stage. My question concerns the circle of actors who provide this assistance. I know that according to the law it is a lawyer, legal counsel, but also an applicant or a person who does not have an application, but only a legal education and three years' professional experience. My question: Are these people qualified enough to mediate as important as family matters? I know that these people have been providing legal assistance so far. My next question: Has any research been carried out to determine whether this assistance provided by persons with different qualifications was satisfactory for those who applied for this legal assistance? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u143	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following questions: Will there not be advice at the point of free legal aid in connection with ongoing administrative proceedings or enforcement proceedings? It follows from the provisions of the Act that these proceedings are not mentioned in the amendment of the Act. How many people are entitled to free legal aid today and how much will this group increase in connection with the extension of the catalogue of beneficiaries? The legislator proposes, as part of points of free legal assistance, the possibility of mediation. The question is how many people benefited from such out-of-court dispute resolution in 2016 and how many family cases were involved. How does the legislator imagine that mediation should be carried out within such a short period of time in connection with this amendment? How much money from the state budget was used for free legal advice in 2016? Will this amount increase due to the amendment of the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u144	Thank you very much. And Mr Wojciech the King, the Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Therefore, Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The existing Law on Free Legal Aid has created mechanisms for access to pre-court free legal advice financed by the State by natural persons who cannot afford to obtain it on the market. According to its analysis of the functioning of the Law in 2016, its capacity has not been fully exploited. This is not due to the fact that there is no such need, hence the amendment of the law extending the catalogue of eligible persons and the introduction of new services. Such a service will be the introduction of mediation with information on amicable dispute resolution methods. The proposed solution will contribute to the promotion and dissemination of mediation as an out-of-court dispute resolution method. Could this reduce the number of cases that need to be resolved by the court, and thus some relief from the Sejm, I'm sorry, court? It is also appropriate to extend the catalogue of persons entitled to use services to include unemployed persons and disabled persons without the obligation to show the decision to receive social assistance. The aid will be available to professionals, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which, due to low income, are currently unable to cover legal expenses. Will these changes contribute to a significant increase in the number of eligible persons and thus to a more rational use of public funds for this purpose? Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three questions. The bill is certainly very important, but there are already experiences. These experiences are good, but they're not always good. That's what it's supposed to do to improve the bill. Well, I ask the applicants about the responsibility for the documents they have prepared: a procedural application, an appeal. It happens - it's a practice experience in the parliamentary office - that these proposals are prepared too quickly, carelessly, not always well. I'm asking you to supervise the proper preparation of your applications. This brief time of meeting with the interested person also shows that there is not always time to collect the documentation well enough. The second question concerns specialisation in guidance points. If this specialization is in the entire voivodship, it can happen, there is a danger that the interested person will have to go around the voivodship if he has different cases. So I ask you to consider whether a broad specialization is more appropriate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] advisory points. Marshal, one last question. The third question concerns advice for young people or start-ups. They can advise on how to start a business, but they have no right to ask later, and this is extremely important. Poland is a small company.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u148	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u149	So this point and this extension are probably necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u150	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u151	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! You assume in the project a significant extension of both the personal catalogue and the scope of substantive legal advice and introduce civic guidance, while you state that this is to be done within the available financial means by optimising the use of these already existing funds. But what instruments do you give old age in order to be able to optimize this use of funds? Because in my opinion, there are no such instruments in this bill. This law will be introduced once again to impose additional tasks on local authorities, in this case district governments, without securing adequate financial resources for their implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u152	Thank you. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very happy, although it did not sound out of the mouth of representatives of the Polish President's Office, that this is a very good idea of free legal advice, prepared and implemented by the government of the Civic Platform. I think it's worth remembering, Minister... [[And don't break it.]] ...because this project was implemented by the Minister... [[Grabarczyk.]] ... Grabarczyk and then Minister Boris Budka. So it is worth remembering these things. About the extension of the directory of course It can go in the right direction. Given that more people, more entities will be entitled to this free legal advice, what action, if any, with regard to securing appropriate budgetary resources, do you anticipate? Will there be changes in the 2018 budget? Because it wouldn't be good if we were talking about catalogs or people... We increase the number of people entitled to free legal advice, but these people [[♪ The bell ♪]] They would have to wait longer for such advice. In fact, this action is the answer to how we should speed up action in the Polish justice system just through the free legal advice that the Civic Platform government has put in place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u154	Thank you. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u155	At first, also as Mr Rutnicki. You may be updating the bill submitted by the Civic Platform, this project, as well as the borrower support fund, but I wanted to ask: Have you considered the possibility that not only foundations and these entities could provide such free guidance, but even individuals? Why? In my parliamentary practice, I have come across complaints that sometimes associations, and I know such facts, and I have them in writing, force donations, and therefore win the opportunity to give such advice, and from legal counsels, from market practitioners they take donations, unfortunately not very little, because sometimes up to PLN 1200 per month. A legitimate goal, but it's worth talking about it, so that there's a chance that there's no such pathology that associations or foundations that win service, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they may have benefited from forced donations by persons who provide such assistance, additional funds. I would also like to thank you for your cooperation on this issue, among others. with the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u156	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u157	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! I would like to ask, Minister: Don't you think the Minister's time for implementation is too short and can distort the sense of the need for mediation? During mediation, one must meet, talk, discuss, and in this way one can reach consensus on a well-established case and mediation, so as not to distort the purpose of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u158	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The proposal for non-governmental organisations to carry out activities in the field of free legal assistance, as well as civic guidance, is undoubtedly correct, while there are many questions and doubts about this. I have two questions that relate to this amendment of the law. Firstly: To what extent will these changes make it easier for people to obtain legal aid? What is the assessment of the designers of this new situation? Secondly, what will be the financial impact of these changes? Because extending the scope of physical and subjective activity certainly requires a significant expansion of activity, and it simply costs money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u161	Thank you, Marshal. Underlined It's already been here... It is a pity that you are hiding behind this chair, because really - hello, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking to you - it is good that you can see who we are talking to. This is a dangerous project because you draw from the experience of your predecessors, i.e. You take our project and try to politicize it, because the introduction of the voivode who will recommend it will give, will have the right, that is the limitation of the freedoms that are today. And that's the first danger. You're gonna politicize legal aid, not your work. The second thing is that you want a choice. Expanding the catalogue is really good for you to be able to re-choose organizations that are supposed to be specialized in something. It's all pic on water just to be able to choose entities that are close to the PiS. And that's the second danger. And the third thing, practical, please pay attention to it. We're talking about a network. The advice is not that a citizen comes and gets an answer in 5 minutes, only the problem is taken, catalogued, then consulted with a specialist and given an answer. So the specialization of these centers doesn't make any sense, because there's an exchange of information between centers and there's work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Specialization is a runway so that you can politicize these institutions. And these are the dangers that I would like to draw attention to in the work on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u162	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wojciech the King, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendment to the law does not really change much in the current state of law. It only extends the catalogue of eligible persons while narrowing it down to those listed in the Act. I would therefore ask for an answer on how it will be verified whether the beneficiary of such free legal assistance is entitled to it, because if this catalogue was created, this verification will also have to be carried out in some way. Second question. There are no entrepreneurs in the catalog. Why are entrepreneurs excluded from this legal aid? I think you are mistakenly assuming that someone who conducts an economic activity is a wealthy person. There are small entrepreneurs who may also need, will want, will have to benefit from such free legal assistance. I would also ask you to consider this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u164	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask you now to speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project deserves support and starting from the end: Mr, this has nothing to do with politicisation, in any way. [[What do you mean? Give us an argument.]] The messages that are currently being examined by the elders will be examined by the voivods. [[Exactly.]] I would like to point out that this is very important... [[It is to you.]] ...because it will affect the acceleration of the procession. These conditions are strictly objective. [[Minister, we don't have those numbers.]] I'd like to point them out. Namely, the question is whether the person concerned has at least 2 years of experience in carrying out the tasks of providing legal advice, legal information or having an agreement with a lawyer. These are strictly objective, technical conditions. [[Of course.]] Now that they're being checked by the old man, and the old man also has to organize competitions, you have to release him from this obligation to make it easier, faster. [[You want to lighten your load.]] These objective conditions, whether anyone has a contract or no contract, whether they have a 2-year period or not, have nothing to do with any discretion. [[After four years of your reign, we'll be the dogs registering with the voivodships.]] The next issues that have been the subject of the charges here concern financing. I would like to straightaway all doubts, nothing will cost more, because the law assumes that funding will be independent of the amount of legal advice, but depends on one condition: readiness to provide it. Therefore, the financing costs will not increase in any way. The system is so designed that it is able to absorb this extended range of beneficiaries. The bill deserves to be backed up as much as possible. A year, over a year ago, February 23rd. I pointed to the shortcomings of the law, namely the very narrowly coordinated scope of beneficiaries, the law was not adapted to the needs, the realities of everyday life and, as the Minister has stated here, only a fraction of free legal advice was used by a very fragile group of addressees. [[A quarter of a million tips.]] Now the circle of addressees will actually be widened, greatly extended, by the people who really need it, the unemployed, the disabled. [[Didn't the seniors need it?]] I think we can all agree that these people are entitled to free legal assistance. Seniors, as they have so far, will also be able to benefit from it. The number of beneficiaries will increase by 7.5 million, ladies and gentlemen, a high committee. [[Seym.]] Then the people covered by the guardianship, the people at risk of eviction, the repatriates. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, there is a question about entrepreneurs, I understand that the Minister will also address these questions, but I would like to point out clearly one fact, namely that there is no possibility of granting public aid to those engaged in an economic activity, which is the result of EU rules in principle, I stress, in principle. Therefore, here are obstacles of a nature, I would say, independent of us, which prevent the introduction into the business system. To all the questions that have been the subject of the question, I understand that the Minister will answer. Once again, I would like to stress that the project deserves to be accepted, it is a very good project. It introduces three new, very important changes. Firstly, it extends the scope of the beneficiaries, secondly, it involves free legal aid with judicial assistance, with judicial proceedings, thirdly, it increases the scope of this legal assistance by extending the scope of the matter. Free legal advice - someone spirals into debt for example, needs help not legal, but psychological, life-long help, and will be able to use it when he goes to a lawyer. Yes, a lawyer is not from providing psychological assistance, but he will instruct such a person and she will be referred to civil counsel. [[By the voivodeship.]] Finally mediation. Mediation is, of course, also a great credit for this project, and it is reflected here. Of course, it will not be judicial mediation. When a civil or criminal court directs a case to mediation, it will not be the subject of this project, of course, because it is not the law. Similarly, when it comes to mediation between people who have been violent. Here, I think we agree that mediation is a general problem between those affected by violence in the past. On the other hand, all other cases are of course covered by the Act. So civic guidance, mediation, we increase the scope of the subject matter, we increase the subject area, we increase the range of beneficiaries. Finally, we involve this free legal assistance with legal proceedings and it will not cost any more than a zloty. The project was originally prepared at the Ministry of Justice. On 23 February, I pointed out the problems arising from the present law. Then we gave the project to the President and the successful cooperation of the Ministry of Justice with the Polish President's Office resulted in this very good project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u166	Thank you, Minister. [[Nobody even clapped.]] And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, Mrs Anna Surówka-Pasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u167	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A few additional comments. Firstly, as regards the extension or extension of the catalogue of both beneficiaries and services which will be available under points of free legal assistance or civic guidance, as the Minister pointed out earlier, it was a project prepared with the Ministry, and therefore the Ministry of Justice has calculated precisely the costs associated with the extension of both the range of beneficiaries and the subject matter in which these new services will be provided at these points. Another issue concerns the definition of criteria to be met by NGOs. We are currently dealing with a situation where, depending on which district it is, these statutory conditions are different in order to eliminate any organisation from the possibility of providing this assistance. Therefore, it is so that e.g. in some powiats, certain organisations which meet the criteria are allowed, in others they are eliminated by reference to these conditions. Therefore, in order to harmonise those conditions which organisations must fulfil, it is also proposed to transfer this competence, but only to verify the reasons for providing this free assistance to the voivods, while all the other issues relating to the organisation that will be able to provide these services within this pool will continue to depend on the counties and the powiats will continue to be obliged to conduct the competition in this respect. One thing should also be noted, because here you have paid attention to civic guidance, that it will overcharge, in other words, the costs of this guidance will be so great that there will be no legal advice for this. According to the amendment, only 1/4 of all funds or all points can be allocated to civic guidance, so it is not so that these funds will suddenly be redirected and 90% This will be citizens' advice, while only 10% - free help. The upper limit of these services is 25% for the whole. On the other hand, as far as the project is concerned, it also indicates that all these points of free aid are required to provide one educational task per year, i.e. each point will have to carry out one educational task per year. It could be all kinds of training, it could be workshops, it could be some kind of lecture. With regard to the statements concerning vouchers for legal services, I would like to say that this is a completely different system of financing free of charge legal aid, which required a complete remodeling of the current system, I would say, the creation of a new law, once again verify absolutely all the criteria, which could lead at such a critical moment even to the temporary blocking of liquidity in the provision of these services. As far as mediation is concerned, here I would just like to remind you that mediation can be provided by those who are qualified to do so. Of course, they are mostly lawyers and lawyers, but there is no possibility of entrusting mediation to outsiders. Furthermore, mediation will not be provided at one meeting lasting 15 minutes. Here it is assumed that mediation will, of course, be divided into sessions, but in order to benefit from these free mediations, it will be necessary to meet the same criteria as are required to obtain free legal assistance. On the other hand, the assistance of a professional attorney or any other expert advisor, in this case it would be appropriate to say that providing free legal assistance will be possible on the basis of proceedings which are already under way, only to make a request for exemption from legal costs, to appoint a representative of his own motion, or to inform him of the costs of proceedings. On the other hand, there will be no conflict between the public representative and the person who grants free of charge aid, because the scope of this aid, which can be granted by persons providing free of charge aid, is much narrower. There will also be no possibility of delimiting social organisations, because in terms of the conditions that organisations must fulfil in order to provide this assistance, they are still and consistently the same, while only at the level of the voivodship, precisely the voivodship, are entrusted with an assessment of the fulfilment of these criteria, or any organisation, at least potentially, has the possibility to provide such services. As far as those bodies which in practice provide these free advice are concerned, in most cases they are persons who are qualified either as a lawyer or as a legal adviser, even as regards non-governmental organisations, because a non-governmental organisation which can apply for these free advice must have an agreement with a professional representative, and if advice is to be given by a person who does not have such qualifications, it is obliged to inform a person who is not a lawyer, that he himself is not a lawyer, and is therefore e.g. the possibility of giving up her services by a person who wanted to use the services of such a person and of attending a counsel or a lawyer who has these qualifications. What the Minister pointed out earlier about the extension of this directory to entrepreneurs... The Minister rightly stressed that this is public aid and, as you know perfectly well, we are bound by EU law and there are limited opportunities for businesses to provide such legal assistance. Another issue is the funds that have been spent or will be spent. As I have already pointed out, no increase in the limits of these measures is planned in any way. The Minister explained here earlier that this amendment was designed to balance this system and that these measures, which could currently be better absorbed and not, due to the limited catalogue of operators who can benefit or the limited subject matter of these benefits, could now be better used. I can quote some data for 2016: the average number of benefits granted at the points of free aid varied between 13 and 27, 13 was the lowest number of benefits granted, 27 - the largest. Ladies and gentlemen, on average, there were about 20 tips per point per month. Given that the point is functional for 5 days a week after 4 hours, this is a relatively small number. When it comes to securing funds, it's already been here. However, what is the case with providing these services by individuals? A case of associations that sometimes force donations. Well, you can say that when it comes to the provision of services by individuals, there is no such broad guarantee here that they will be services at the appropriate level. Therefore, the possibility for individuals to provide these services is waived by shifting this focus to the professionals or social organisations that specialise in this. On the other hand, as regards Mr Romecki's comment that the consultation would last 15 minutes, the statistics cited show how these points of free assistance are used. However, in absolutely no way does the amendment seek to limit the number of hours and days a week during which the aid will be provided. On the following issues, I will answer: extending this catalogue of eligible entities or extending the scope of services provided is intended to facilitate access to free legal assistance, which, as the Minister has already pointed out, is a flaw in the current regulations. On the other hand, as far as the financial impact is concerned, it is once again a desire to make more effective use of the funds that are. I will answer Mr Nitras's question again. The counties will continue to decide which organization will provide these services, and as I recall, there is no relationship between the voivodeship and the county here, because the county was, however, not there, is a local government unit, and therefore the possibility of interfering the voivodeship with whom the county will choose is already much more limited. [[How can you not? It has to be approved by the voivode.]] Any questions relating to the verification of entitled persons: the catalogue of documents on the basis of which this verification will take place is clearly indicated in the Act. These will be declarations of criminal liability and certificates, which have also been regulated in detail in this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u168	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and certain other laws, contained in print No 1868, to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the 2018 Year of Remembrance of the Greater Poland Uprising (prints No 1826 and 1856). I ask Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to recommend to you a draft resolution on the establishment of the 2018 Year of the Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising. The Committee on Culture unanimously adopted the draft resolution because we believe that 2018 is an exceptional year - it is at that time that celebrations will take place and there will be a promotion of our history related to regaining independence. This period will run from 2018 to 2020, but the Wielkopolska Uprising cannot be unseparated. This will give cultural organisations, NGOs, local governments and schools a chance to prepare and draw attention to these large celebrations of regaining independence for the Greater Poland Uprising, which was unique in our history. It was also a culmination of what had been happening for many years in the territory of Greater Poland, how to fight for independence, how to prepare for the day of regaining independence. This tedious daily work was called the longest war of modern Europe in history, and the Greater Poland Uprising was the last dot on the road to regaining independence. So that the committee unanimously adopted this resolution. We hope as a committee that there will be budget resources for this project in order to implement it culturally, educationally, educationally, in order to create even greater links in Wielkopolska. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u170	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Joan Lichocka, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Sewn up Member from Wielkopolska.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Law and Justice Club supports the establishment of 2018 as the Year of the Remembrance of the Greater Poland Uprising. This winning break of Poles has not only a historical dimension. This significant Polish victory, which caused almost the whole of Wielkopolska to be freed from the German occupation and attached to the reborn homeland, is still a living experience shaping the identity of contemporary Wielkopolska. This memory is really alive. A lot of resolutions and appeals came to Members from Wielkopolska, from the counties in Wielkopolska, to establish the year 2018 for the Wielkopolska Uprising. From my constituency, such an appeal was made, among others. Ostrzeszów, Kępno, Rawicz or Jarocin. Of course, we are happy to respond to this appeal, we are in favour, of course. I would also like to point out that this initiative has been taken by Members of the Civic Platform. It is not often for the politicians of this party to express their support for the uprisings... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Really...]] [[This is an outrage, as you said. It's a scandal, it's a disgrace.]] ...and that's the ripples of German domination. I look forward to your next project, this time commemorating the Silesian Uprising. I am talking about this because the Civic Platform somehow fails to react decisively to actions that undermine Silesia's Polishness, which was also fought for by the insurgents of the Wielkopolska Uprising. [[You're sick, woman.]] For people from the Wielkopolska Uprising, Polishness was not discussed... [[A voice from the hall: This is a disgrace!]] [[This is from a messenger who is not from Wielkopolska.]] ...the identity was not bordered, it was simply Polish. You do not know this and you have disgraced yourselves with the coalition with the Silesian Autonomy Movement in Katowice. [[You're supposed to be treating yourself out of complexes, out of hate.]] I'm waiting for your resolution on...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u172	Gentlemen, that's enough. There's going to be a platform position coming up.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u173	...Polish Silesia and commemoration of Silesian Uprisings. [[You're supposed to be treating yourself out of hate.]] Polishness thanks to the heroism and wisdom of that generation and the generations of Great Poles and Poles from other regions won because it always wins... [[What are you talking about? You're lying!]] ...no matter what the barbarians scream. [[A voice from the hall: After all, this is a disgrace.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u174	Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice. [[Mr. Marshal, not everything in this podium can be delivered. There are no better and worse Poles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the parliamentary club, I have the honour to present the second part of the position concerning the draft resolution of the Sejm on the establishment of the year 2018 with the Year of the Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising. [[That's not how it's gonna be. Your friend shows you can.]] It is a good initiative, one can say that this resolution fits into the resolutions adopted in 2016 and 2017 of the Sejm commemorating events and institutions that contributed to the preservation of Polishness in the Prussian elections and ultimately to the liberation of Wielkopolska. These were resolutions commemorating the 210th anniversary of the Uprising of Wielkopolska 1806, the 98th anniversary of the Uprising of Wielkopolska 1918, the anniversary of the Uprising of the Gymnastic Society of the Falcon, as well as the 160th anniversary of the Uprising of the Poznań Society of Friends of Sciences. The Greater Poland Uprising was an armed statement of Poles against the Prussian authorities. It forms part of a beautiful tradition of independence uprisings, national uprisings. The goal of all uprisings was one: regaining sovereignty, freedom by Poland, by Poles. Of course, the Greater Poland Uprising in this sense is a special uprising, that it is one of the few uprisings, as we remember as Poles, and I am particularly proud of it as the Great Poles, who proved to be victorious uprisings. It led to the release of most of the territory of the former German Prussian province of Poznań and the connection of these areas to the Polish state. The Greater Poland Uprising was an uprising in which all social groups took part: landowners, industrialists, intelligence, peasants. It was financed to a large extent by Wielkopolska landowners, who were guardians of Polishness throughout the 19th century. Almost all political trends have been involved: a very strong national trend, chadecks, but also a popular and patriotic left. It is worth remembering the commanders of the Uprising: Dowbor-Musnicki, Taczak, but also the Major. Mieczysławie Paluchu, who played a special role in the first weeks of the uprising. An important event was the acquisition of Ławica, because it is the largest Polish war loot in history, it is more than 200 million German brands then, as well as the beginnings of Polish aviation. The Greater Poland Uprising is also a Uprising [[♪ The bell ♪]] Greater Poland's aviation, 100th anniversary will be celebrated at the beginning of 2019. We believe that history, tradition and ethos of the Greater Poland Uprising are worthy of commemoration. The joint struggle for independence has produced excellent fruitage. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports the adoption of this resolution. Gloria victoribus! Glory to the winners! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u176	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to assure Mrs Lichocka that parliamentarians of the Civic Platform are still thinking about the history of Poland. [[Rationally.]] [[I'm so happy for you. Tell me about the Silesian uprisings.]] I'll talk about the Silesian uprisings. [[The only uprising you've ever heard of is an uprising from your knees.]] May 25th this year The Sejm of the Republic of Poland established the year 2018 as the Year of the Jubilee of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining Independence. Undoubtedly, with the suspension of the war on the front of the western Great War, the growing chaos of the vanquished conquest states has been realized. However, 1918 did not mean the end of the struggle for independence. It was a breakthrough, a prelude to the struggle for the shape of the one that didn't die. The events that took place in Poznań on 27 December 1918 initiated the last chapter of the longest war of modern Europe. Over 100 years of struggle between Poles of the inhabitants of Wielkopolska and Prussian aggressor and conducted battles, in which the main weapon was organic work, work at the foundation, fight for the preservation of Polish culture and tradition, deserve the highest respect and recognition. The Greater Poland Uprising was one of the events having a fundamental impact on the shape of the borders of the Second Republic, on its culture, politics and economy. Initiators of this breakup, using extremely favorable circumstances perfectly, risked a lot to gain even more. Similarly to their compatriots of the other partitions, the Greater Poles, memorials of the extremely difficult battle they had to wage, the lonely fight against a determined and well-prepared opponent, gave their support to the Upper Silesian insurgents, who also sought to join the lands they occupied with the reborn Polish state. Branches composed of insurgents of Greater Poland also took part in fights for the eastern borders of the Second Republic. And at a time when the Bolsheviks, well-equipped and prepared soldiers of the Wielkopolska regiments, consisting largely of the previous insurgents, threatened the extremely fragile independence of the country, bravely stood up to the battle, enjoying the reputation of a disciplined and battled army. Once again they have proved their attitude and high morale authentic patriotism. When the armed struggle was over, the inhabitants of Wielkopolska eagerly took up the task of rebuilding and reuniting the Republic of Poland destroyed by the historical turmoil. In this way they creatively referred to the rich positivistic tradition, to the heritage of the founding fathers of the modern Wielkopolska. This was the time when Poland needed work, not blood. Given the contribution of Wielkopolska to the struggle for independence and reconstruction of the independent Republic of Poland and the important impact of the victorious Wielkopolska Uprising on the shape of the borders of the reborn Polish state, the establishment by the Sejm of 2018 of the Year of Remembrance of the Greater Poland Uprising is absolutely justified. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that the Sejm adopt this resolution, preferably by acclamation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think, Mr Marshal, that it would be good, after all, that such words from this speaker with the participation of PiS Members should not fall, because the Greater Poland Uprising is a wonderful story of all of us. I am very pleased, I am proud as a Member of the Civic Platform, that such a project my club has brought, because it is actually 100 years since this uprising, a winning uprising. But also thanks to this we will be able to commemorate all those heroes, often anonymous, who in all of Wielkopolska, regardless of where they came from, fought to make Wielkopolska part of the independent Republic of Poland. We often talk about the great struggles in Poznań, but I also wanted to mention these magnificent insurgents of Wielkopolska from smaller cities, from Pniew, from Opalenica, from Lviv or from Obornik, where hundreds of them really gave their lives so that we could live in independent Poland. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on the resolution concerning the establishment of the 2018 Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising, honoring this resolution with the 100th anniversary of the Wielkopolska Uprising. I am very pleased, for example, because as a Great-Polanin of the great-grandfather of the great-grandfather very often I have observed the misfortune slightly visible in the history of this uprising, because it was one of the insurrections that was least mentioned over the years, to which the oblivion in some way has led, the confusion in our memory, in our history, even though it was a victorious uprising, which in our history we can notice a few, not so many. This is an uprising, which was the essence or culmination of a 100-year work at the core of the Greater Poland, the work at the basis which today should be a model for us to build first economic condition, cultural condition, political awareness, national consciousness, and at the end, in a favourable situation, in an arrangement conducive to conditions in Europe and Poland, culminated in an uprising which then had the best chance of success and achieved this success. At the beginning of the 20th century, it should be noted that at the very beginning this uprising was a little unlucky, because not all the men of the state of the early 20th century saw the need for its support or they saw Wielkopolska as a very important element of the rebirth of the Republic of Poland. Later in the years of the Polish People's Republic there was practically no mention of this uprising. In recent years, we have begun to restore the memory of the uprising and the insurgents. [[What do you mean, bring it back?]] This is a very important thing, because for many years, as I say, we have not talked about this uprising much. We mentioned a whole range of other uprisings, and this is what we did not boast about. I think we are completing a certain element and showing the heroes of this uprising. It is worth mentioning here probably the unreplaced General Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki - a great general, experienced in the fights in the East - whose contribution to the victory of this uprising is invaluable. Unfortunately, he also later did not get the proper honor, the honor he should have had for what he had done in the Wielkopolska Uprising. It is a good thing that today, worshiping this uprising by this resolution, we are also honoring him because he was a great Pole. The great Poles were also his daughters, one of whom was probably the only victim of a woman killed, murdered in Katyn by the Russians. The Kukiz Club15 welcomes the initiative of Members of the Civic Platform. We fully support this draft resolution and, of course, we will vote in favour. We also request that this resolution be best adopted by acclamation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to present the position of the contemporary towards the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the 2018 Year of Memory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. The Greater Poland Uprising and its ideas are especially close to the entire Modern, not just Poznań and Wielkopolska Members. They express what we call for in contrast to growing nationalism and xenophobia. They express and appreciate the attitude of modern patriotism, i.e. thinking about the country not only with the heart but also with reason. The Wielkopolska Uprising, although based on armed actions, is also presented as an example of wise and tactical decisions which ultimately led to the restoration of Wielkopolska Poland. It is given as an example of good, coordinated cooperation, not just battles and bloodshed. Historians point out that there would be no Greater Poland Uprising if it had not been for decades to work at the foundations of Poznań and Wielkopolska elites, if it had not been for the activities of Karol Marcinkowski, Hiplit Cegielski and Dezyder Chłapowski, who turned the inhabitants of Wielkopolska into citizens of Wielkopolska. This clear civic awareness was lacking in other breakages of independence, which were often faced with indifference and misunderstanding. Therefore, the success of the Greater Poland Uprising should not be judged as spontaneous insurgent action, but as a result of many years of bottom-up action, silent heroism and civic consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, the celebration of the anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising is an important element of building a national identity. It will not be an abuse if I say that this event has often been accompanied by a social disappointment with a small interest of the central authorities and national media in this event. Despite the treatments of many personalities, the memory of the Greater Poland Uprising was poorly manifested against the background of other events in the country. Today's resolution is another attempt to restore the uprising of the Greater Poland to its proper nationwide rank, to restore memory and place in the history of people, heroes and events that led to the consolidation of Poland at the beginning of the 20th century. The Modern Club supports the resolution in its proposed form and asks all States to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u184	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u185	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to present my position on the establishment of the 2018 Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising. The club, of course, supports the draft resolution. We are involved in a valuable initiative to honor one of the most important and probably the most underestimated events in the entire national history of Poland, the only insurrection in the history of Poland, which really ended in full success. We would also like to emphasise the huge contribution of Polish peasants, farmers to the victory of the Greater Poland Uprising. Just peasants and agricultural workers were the core of the insurgent army, as many as 64% of the soldiers. Only 36% of the troops came from other backgrounds: intelligence, craftsmen, merchants. Without peasants, the success of the Greater Poland Uprising would not be possible. Their heroism and devotion to their homeland should be duly commemorated on the anniversary of the celebrations. In the middle of 1918 it was not known whether Wielkopolska would ever be within the borders of the Republic of Poland. The breakthrough was the heroic break of the insurgent army at the end of December, initiated by the famous performance by Ignacy Paderewski in Poznań. After 52 days of fighting, almost the whole Wielkopolska was incorporated into the borders of the Second Republic of Poland. In May 1919, the Greater Poland Army was subordinated to the head of state to Józef Piłsudski, and on 1 June 1919 the election to the Legislative Sejm was distributed in the region. Today, it is hard to imagine what Poland would look like, its latest story without Wielkopolska. You can even risk saying that there would be no Poland on the map today. Thus, such an important event for the whole statehood must be properly publicised and honoured, also in the context of the memory of independence struggles which lasted in other regions in 1918. Polish patriots e.g. in Pomerania or in Warmia and Mazury they also opposed the growing Germanization and sought to join their lands to the Republic of Poland, but their efforts did not end in victory, unlike the triumph of the Great Poles. The 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising should be a celebration of all Poles, regardless of their views, place of residence or political sympathy. The initiative to establish the 2018 Year of Memory of the Wielkopolska Uprising is regarded as extremely valuable. It is worth to make the motto of Ignacy Paderewski's words spoken in Poznań just before the uprising: Our bias should be one - Poland. We will serve this one until death. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! About the European Union of Democrats, of course, supports this resolution, that is clear, fully, all the wordings and also solidarity with all of this, almost everything that has been said here, except for the scandalous, shameful speech by Mrs Lichocka. To present something like this in the wake of the Greater Poland Uprising? An attack on another political party, on the Platform, some, I don't know, an explosion of hatred, idiotism, like almost everything that this lady produces, so it's not a special surprise. But I must say that this room has not heard such a thing in a long time, especially since the pretext for such political rudeness is the Greater Poland Uprising. As for the resolution itself, it's actually two minor amendments. I wouldn't introduce... Besides, this thread was scrolling in speeches about, it seems, the longest war of modern Europe. It's a TV show. Not necessarily in the Seym Resolution must be the title of the series, and also a very good show by Stefan Bratkowski. But it was the same in the other partitions. We had Dzymały's car and children from Września in Wielkopolska, but we also had Sisyphous works in Congress, so that resistance to the invaders was not characteristic only for Wielkopolska. It's a little something, of course. I would also save the record of the Bolshevik mess. She was, of course, but there is no need to introduce this thread in every text, in every resolution or in every law. It's just unnecessary. As for the soldiers from Wielkopolska who participated in the war in 1920, of course they participated in it in roughly the same proportions as soldiers from all other former partitions, as it was everywhere. And it was common. I mean, I don't see any reason to stand out in this respect. it is the soldiers of Wielkopolska, although I praise them for this and of course honor and praise all those who died in the defence of Polish borders in 1920, also from Poznań regiments, known for their valour and fortitude. Some did not even speak Polish well, and they did excellent work in this war. My dad, a war participant in 1920, told me how his colleagues from Poznań regiments behaved bravely, how they fought bravely, although not everyone, as I said, spoke Polish as well as the soldiers from Congress. And one last remark. PiS as always... I thought you guys from PiS were boycotting and that you went on, you were still marching around Krakowskie Przedmieście, because you forgot that the Smoleńsk monthly ended yesterday. But you came, which means it's not a boycott. So thank you so much for that, glory to you. On the other hand, the PiS reveals on this occasion a far-reaching ignorance, which is being transferred to the co-club of Kukiz15, which also presents similar ignorance, speaking of some additional uprisings that this uprising was one of the victorious uprisings. No, some historical people, it was the only uprising that was fully victorious, achieved its goals. Alternatively, we can talk about the Third Silesian Uprising, which has partially achieved its goals, only partially. All other uprisings - the first is generally considered bar confederation, through Kościuszko, etc. - it was a bloody disaster, and the bloodiest defeat was the Warsaw Uprising. The authors of this terrible decision for Poland would stand by the Polish court, only they were lucky to die before Poland regained its independence, and could not stand before this court. So that not all of them, PiS's unlearned, was the only uprising that... But historical failure PiS is known and there was no surprise. Of course, I emphasize once again, I pay great homage and appreciation to these heroes. And it's not true that only recently. This is such a cliché, which is repeated, that lately the tribute is restored to these insurgents, that it is said... That's not true. For years there have been wreaths, for years there have been these celebrations, many times the Sejm has passed such resolutions. The claim that something special has happened recently in this area is simply - I don't know why they're doing it - or cliché, mindless repetition of a certain opinion, or there's a deeper purpose in it, meaning I can't see. About the European Union of Democrats fully supports this, I say again, solidarity, of course, will vote in favour of this proposal, in favour of this resolution. We would also be willing to support the proposal here, if it is or actually already is, for acclamation. I think it would be most fortunate to accept it by acclamation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u188	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, After more than 123 years of captivity, Poland's non-existence on maps, and even in the consciousness of nations and countries of the world, Poles from Russian and Austrian partitions became independent. However, the heart of the homeland, and at the same time the beginning - the earth and the fatherhood of the first rulers Lives and Boleslawa, the land of baptism was to remain enslaved. However, life, history of nations, existence is determined not only by history, not only by the economy, but also by faith in values and ideals, or spirit. This national spirit was with the inhabitants of Wielkopolska on December 26 and 27 with Ignacy Paderewski. This spirit was on the barrels of the insurgent rifles, in the homes of their mothers and wives. This spirit of the need for freedom and strength has helped defeat the enemy in the first time since the partitions of the victorious uprising. The Wielkopolska Uprising was an expression of the dreams and aspirations of Poles living in the heart of the former Piast Poland. When 11 November 1918 Poles from Western Galicia of the former Congress Kingdom enjoyed their freedom after more than 100 years of captivity, the people of the heart of the country Lives and Bolesława was to rely on grace and wait for the decision of victorious countries such as England, France and Italy. There was a serious fear that these lands would remain under German rule. Thus, the dreams of freedom were not meant to be the participation of Poles from the Warta. Our ancestors took the task of conspiracy, the result of which was the dream of freedom. The turning point was a visit to the Greater Poland of Ignacy Paderewski, who gave Poles the impulse to fight - faith in the union with other free Polish lands. The Great Poles have taken over the provinces at an incredible rate since 27 December 1918. Since the partitions, none of the uprisings have been so spectacularly successful. 16 February 1919 in Trevira at 3 p.m. 18 a treaty was signed with the Germans, under which Poland, the Greater Poland insurgents were treated by the French and the English as allies, and the areas occupied as part of the front with the Germans. This victory had a much deeper dimension than just a strategic one. It was a settlement with years of Germanization, defamation, liquidation of Polishness. After years of captivity, Poland was formed from its knees. She showed the world, Europe, that she can claim her rights, that she can fight diplomacy and weapons for the right place after many failed independence breaks: Kościuszko insurrection, November uprising, People's Springs, January uprising. One of the results of the uprising was to give practically the entire Wielkopolska Poles. Many believe that gaining access by the Second Republic to the Baltic Sea was a tribute to the success of the insurgents from the land of Lives and Bolesław, from the heart of Polishness. This window to the world, where we built a modern port - Gdynia, was a real confirmation of our freedom. It was a cause for pride, independence. It allowed us to develop international trade, changed our geostrategic position. This would not be possible without the sacrifice of blood and life of many insurgents from Wielkopolska. This would not be possible without faith in freedom, in Poland, our own free homeland, which is about us and our dignity. Respectful of the achievements of our compatriots, ancestors from the heart of our homeland, I consider it our common duty to establish the year 2018 as the Year of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u190	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If anyone wants to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u191	Thank you, Marshal. She provoked me to ask the question - I do not hide - from Mrs Lichocka's statement. It is not the first time similar important celebrations, important in Polish history, we worship and not the first time I listen to a debate, which usually, which is worth highlighting, takes place in a certain atmosphere of consent, seriousness, respect for those whom we worship, but also mutual respect. Because there aren't many times in this room when we have something in common. And I wouldn't have asked that question if it wasn't for that speech. I, like Mrs. Lichocka, can honestly say, I don't remember, and I have been a parliamentarians since 2005. Therefore, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the atmosphere in the committee's work was the same as Mrs Lichocka presented to us whether the anniversary of the Greater Poland Uprising had brought Members together in the committee's work. What did it look like in the committee's work? Was it an act of one foolish messenger who came in and just ruined the atmosphere, or was it the atmosphere of the committee's work? Now that I'm here, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm going to express my opinion on behalf of the people of Western Pomerania, because it's important to remember that many of the inhabitants of Western Pomerania have their roots in Wielkopolska, but more importantly, Wielkopolska is the source. Western thoughts and without people [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wielkopolska, who had their ideological roots in the uprising, would not be able to fight for the Western border in Oder and it would not be possible to develop, which was very important. It was the Greater Poles who made the biggest contribution to the fact that Poland took the Western lands to Odra with its administration. And for all this homage to the insurgents and tribute to their descendants. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the hearts of Wielkopolska the Greater Poland Uprising occupies just as important a place as the Warsaw Uprising in the hearts of Warsawians. I do not know what is in the heart of Mrs Lichocka, who here... [[Turtle. Yellow heart.]] ...she just gave a display of hatred, some resentment, which even with such an important, momentous event, which is to give glory to the heroes of events 100 years ago, she had to react here in such a way. The Wielkopolska Uprising is probably the only such, not based on romantic assumptions, but on long-term work, cooperation and practical demonstration that only one with another, not one against another, are able to rise up and actually reach for great challenges. This uprising was characterized by one outstanding feature. Everyone in accordance, regardless of the social, economic status, together, fought the Greater Poland for the Republic. To end this speech, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will refer to the glory and heroism of the people of Wielkopolska, who, apart from the armed act themselves, have fought for freedom, for which they are to be praised forever. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u195	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As for the resolution on the next year being the Year of the Wielkopolska Uprising, I have no doubt. These events, which took place in the years 1918 and 1919, were the crowning of a very long process, when the inhabitants of Wielkopolska, the inhabitants of Poznań fought for Polishness, fought for independence. After all, the victorious uprising in 1806 is also the Greater Poland Uprising, fighting in 1848 is also the Greater Poland Uprising, although more often in historical literature called the Poznań Uprising, it is a fight for Polish land, it is a fight for Polish language in schools - and here I have no doubt. On the other hand, in this resolution, such words were included in her draft, that it was a great triumph of Poles seeking liberation from Prussian captivity. This uprising was aimed at In fact, against the German Reich or the German Empire. And the possessor, and the enemy, was clearly defined, even by the fact that Maria Konopnicka wrote about the fact that there would be no German spit in our faces, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We didn't have any children in Germany. And I have a question for the representative of the applicants: Why is it said in this resolution: Prussian rather than German? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u196	Thank you. [[The country was Prussian.]] [[The Prussian state was part of the German Reich.]] Mr Rafał Grupiński Civic Platform has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an extremely important resolution. Of course, in the heart of every Greater Pole there is probably no more important date than the date of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising, of course, than the liberation of the Republic as a whole. A few things, on the other hand, need to be said. Firstly, the uprising itself was well organized, but it was also the result of some organic work, which is why we are talking about the longest war of modern Europe. At the time of the uprising, despite the Prussian partitions - because we talked about this occupation in Wielkopolska and it was always for Wielkopolska that it was Prussian oppression - there were several hundred social organizations, and it was on the canvas of the achievements of these organizations, i.e. this organic work that the insurgent ranks could be perfectly organized. Let me remind you that in the first half of January, the command of the uprising appointed 11 year olds to the insurgent army. And this type of action has been a huge success. However, it is with great regret that I must say that Mrs Joanna Lichocka is now a Member of Wielkopolska, so what she said from this speaker can really only be accepted with great regret and disappointment that such words could have fallen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about this one. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u198	Thank you. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Should the Greater Poland insurgents be remembered and praised? If anyone asks that question in Wielkopolska among the natives, there will be no negative answer to that question. All those who have lived there for generations know how hard it has been to carry out this uprising, and it has affected almost every family. Only one who operates in Wielkopolska at the moment can have doubts about this issue because of political, electoral benefits. And it is outrageous that in the history of Poland and such an important uprising can be manipulated so. I hope that this will be reflected in the ethics committee and will be explained. Ladies and gentlemen, the Great Poles are waiting for this. I personally had a lot of initiatives in this area from local government officials from Wielkopolska, to whom the inhabitants of Wielkopolska called to adopt such a resolution next year. And I'm counting on the entire Sejm to take it unanimously. And for that very much as the Great Poles, we thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u200	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like the floor of the representative of Mr Arndt's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions were addressed to the rapporteur, but I will try to answer some of them. First of all, with regard to the atmosphere at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, it did not resemble at least this first part of the sitting of the Sejm, it was calm, balanced, as it should be when working on this kind of resolution. In fact, everyone emphasized the importance and role of the Greater Poland Uprising in our history. I think that the doubt raised by the honourable Member can be made clear that we have been talking about the Prussian elections all along, there is still a Prussian admission in our history, and therefore we have included the Prussian admission in the draft resolution. I do not know what other questions have been to the rapporteur if she wishes to speak again, of course that is a possibility. On the other hand, using the fact that I am here before you, first of all I would like to thank you very warmly. Despite Mrs Lichocka's speech, I would like to thank all the representatives of the clubs who spoke today about the Greater Poland Uprising. [[Applause]] The Wielkopolska Uprising really is a unique uprising for our Polish history, not only for Wielkopolska, but for all Poles, and commemorating it is extremely necessary. Thank you again for supporting this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u202	Thank you very much. I would like the floor of the rapporteur of the committee to be taken by Mrs Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to take these questions very briefly. The atmosphere in the committee - because that was the question - but also our discussions on this subject in the Sejm Bureau clearly show that everyone took this resolution very seriously and this resolution united rather than shared Members in the Sejm. Mrs Lichocka alleged that there were no such resolutions. She's been in the Seym for a long time, I've been in the culture committee for many years. If we could look at the achievements and projects that the cultural committee has put together... Many times we have properly reminded the Silesian uprisings and the uprising of Greater Poland, and many very important dates from our history, because this is also the role of the cultural committee to remind about important events. And so I wanted to say from myself that if our great-grandmothers, grandmothers and grandparents, the great-grandparents behaved in such a way, judging other people, and there would not have been a Greater Poland uprising, nor would it have been possible in 1918 to create one country, which is Poland, out of three partitions. [[Applause]] They could then rise above divisions and think of Poland as a whole. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u204	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 45 hours 14 min 08]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Law on the Freedom of Business (Print No. 1848). I ask Maria Małgorzata Janyska to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary project, which was submitted to you in print No. 1848, the Act amending the Law on the Freedom of Business Activity results from the very urgent need to improve the lawmaking for entrepreneurs in Poland, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. This need has become very clear in this term of office. Ladies and gentlemen, the High House has been observing this for almost two years, but it is also seen by external observers, experts - all speak with one voice - that the law in this term is constituted expressly, with the widespread use of the notification of projects as parliamentary. Unused, the obligation to consult, to analyse, also to present assumptions for draft legal acts is often not met, so-called'very cost-effective' is being used. public hearing. As a result, the quality of the law is steadily deteriorating and social acceptance is decreasing. I ask you, what this results in for entrepreneurship, for those who are professionals in this field and who do so on a daily basis, there is no need to explain. The effect is one, the biggest: the drastic inhibition of investments, which we have seen already for the second year in a row. In 2016, the level of investment fell disproportionately compared to previous years, unfortunately in 2017, this trend is still continuing. Entrepreneurs point out that the main reason for limiting their investment plans is questionable legislation in the current governments, which has led to uncertainty and chaos in the legal and tax system. The research by the CSO, which has recently been announced, confirms all the time that entrepreneurs consider this barrier to be one of the largest in their development. Although it is internal and external and there are opportunities to finance development, entrepreneurs, due to this questionable legislation and legal uncertainty, uncertainty about what will be adopted tomorrow, are holding back development decisions. In order not to be literal, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that studies show that, in this term of office, between November 2015 and November 2016, up to 40% complex bill projects were parliamentary projects. In comparison, previous terms were analysed, and these analyses have been systematically carried out for many years, and in the previous two terms they were 15% respectively. and 13% So you can see, ladies and gentlemen, how it gallops, unfortunately in the wrong direction. Part of the answer to this was to be a presidential project, which was submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland at the end of that year, on 2 August... Sorry, the project was considered at the end of the year and was submitted on 2 August 2016, a project in which Mr President intended to change this scope. Of course, the justification was that friendly legislation would now be applied, that it would be necessary to assess the expected impact of the draft law or regulation on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. And this is to be a separate part of the justification. This idea was supported by the whole House, because everyone agreed that this was very necessary, while the result was a change in the Law on the Freedom of Business, which contained five lines and only in a general way, without the criteria being specified, talked about the assessment. We pointed this out in the discussion on this project. It does not specify the criteria, methodology, at least the minimum requirements for carrying out the analyses are not specified with whom and within what time limit. Unfortunately, this has become a fact of what we have anticipated in terms of the possibility of using this law and its legislative quality. This law after its entry into force in March this year. it did not produce the expected effects. It is enough to look at the projects that have affected them at the time to determine whether the assessments and analyses were presented, whether it was laconically bloomed in one sentence, that the project has an impact or does not have an impact, without going into the substance and the actual criteria. Therefore, please, at that time, the Civic Platform Club announced that it would then prepare its own project, which would define the criteria that would be mandatory for analysis, and the principles on which this should be done, and above all that it would also deal with the parliamentary projects, so that at least the requirements would be laid down for these projects, which would make them non-abuseable and that the quality of the law would improve. Ladies and gentlemen, in the explanatory memorandum, of course, you will read more data, but this is available, so I will not read it. I will then move on to discuss the main objectives of the project and present them very quickly. In this project, please countries, there is a two-area division that includes clarification of the requirements for government draft laws and regulations and so-called project requirements. NGOs, i.e. MEPs, citizens and senates. As regards the proposals for government projects, there has been a categorisation, I ask you, that in relation to projects which concern the property rights of entrepreneurs, the rights of entrepreneurs, their public-law obligations, and also have an impact on the costs of operating, an assessment of the expected impact of a draft law or regulation on entrepreneurs, hereinafter referred to as an impact assessment, must be carried out. And we provide specific criteria that should be taken into account in this respect. So, above all, it is necessary to analyse other possible solutions, including those other than the law or regulation, which could lead to the desired effect. The aim is to reduce overregulation, because in Poland, according to reports that are systematically carried out and by employers' organisations, and by experts, we have overregulation of the law. Another criterion is the analysis and forecast of the social, economic and financial impacts of the projects, their impact on entrepreneurs, and in particular the costs of administrative activities and organisational changes in enterprises. For today we have, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to say this, either willingly or freely, and we do not examine how the entrepreneur will have to behave after the entry into force of the law. What are some examples here? Let me give you an example of the pharmacy bill. It limited the possibility of operating in the organisational and legal form of companies governed by commercial law in relation to their business activity, please. How can a law command a person to do business? If someone wants to do business as a natural person, he has such conditions and such a need, then let him do it. If someone wants to develop and thus even recapitalise their business or cooperate with other entities, why should we close this road by law? A country that should support development should support entrepreneurs, ordering them to do their business. The next draft law is a citizens' project, which will be examined today in the subcommittee on reducing trade on Sundays. In this case, the proposals contained in the project were also presented without analysis of the effects, costs, without consultation. This will result in businesses either shutting down their business, or they will have to change the form of organization, organizational structure of their business, because they will be able to do business for days. It is not without reason that in this sector, too, we have been seeing a fall in investment for two years since the bill was announced. Ladies and gentlemen, the next criterion we have proposed to examine - this is very important and has been met with a very positive reception of the various entities with whom this draft law was consulted before submitting it in the Sejm - is to indicate to what extent the draft law or regulation has been limited or excluded from the draft law or regulation in relation to micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises introducing or increasing the obligations of this group of entrepreneurs, or to justify the absence of such restrictions or exemptions. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have neither such capital nor organisational capacity to fulfil all administrative obligations and should therefore be subject to a different approach. The second area I mentioned concerns the so-called. non-governmental projects, i.e. parliamentary, civic and senate projects. Ladies and gentlemen, the submission of these projects is widespread. We are all dealing with this every day in this House, and we know it. Why, we know, too. Because then there is no obligation to consult and assess the effects of regulation or carry out and accompany analyses. We therefore propose that such a project should be such that such a project, which concerns the same area of property rights, powers, public obligations and costs, that the designer, the proposer of this project, should already attach to the justification the position of entities who consult government projects, here also mentioned in the Act - are those representative trade union organisations and employers' organisations within the meaning of the Council of Social Dialogue, national representation within the meaning of the provisions on professional self-government of certain economic operators and other entities which, due to the subject matter of their activities, may be interested in the draft law or regulation - so that he joins the positions of those entities or informs them that they have not expressed their views within a certain period of time. If the Marshals of the Sejm had not been included in this information, they would have had to apply within 30 days for an analysis or a statement of opinion. If this position does not affect us, then we have a clear situation that either these organisations I mentioned do not respond to this, or they believe that it is, perhaps, indifferent to their activities, does not affect it, etc. But at least, ladies and gentlemen, this project is subject to a formal and systematic assessment, and then, in discussing here in this House, we do not have the risk that the project, if it comes into force, will have a very negative impact the next day, such as the Banking Tax Act, which has affected the lending process, the increase in capital costs, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a second element that would either restrict these parliamentary projects, in fact, to a large part of government projects under the parliamentary projects that are being used, as I said, in order to avoid consultation and analysis and to expressly constitute a bad law. Therefore, the Council of Ministers would be obliged, the marshal would send to the Council of Ministers all projects relating to entrepreneurs, having an impact on entrepreneurs, according to these criteria of influence that I was talking about, in order to take a stand. If the government supported such a project in whole or in part, then the government would also have to assess the impact on the activities of entrepreneurs on the non-governmental project. And that is logical, ladies and gentlemen, because if the government supports - and not only the government can be a projector, Members can support the government in action if they see other aspects which, perhaps, are not visible in resorts and which are very important - they should respond to this. This is how we will eliminate the bad consequences of the law. Because, ladies and gentlemen, often working in committees on such projects later, we see that there are some embarrassing situations in which the applicant does not know the project properly. He's an applicant, he's got it in his hand, and he's not answering questions, he's just looking at officials from the ministry to support him because he just doesn't know it. And, ladies and gentlemen, now a few more sentences about these things going on next door, in the meantime, situations. That is when we submitted this project to the Marshal's staff, at the same time four employers' organisations, representative, national, i.e. BCC, Confederation of Leviathan, Employers of the Republic of Poland, the Union of Crafts of Poland, on the hands of Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, on the hands of Minister Henryk Kowalczyk have sent letters in which they called for the work on the business constitution to be accelerated. Why? Because the business constitution contains a law for entrepreneurs, which was announced, which was supposed to be at least in the middle of this year ready for adoption, and drew attention... There is one chapter on the law-making for entrepreneurs. And these four organisations, which I mentioned, have called for a speeding up of work on the business constitution, because for employers, as they have written, it is very important that this element of the legislative package, which concerns the principles of law-making for entrepreneurs. For entrepreneurs, unclear, unstable rules - they write in their position - and de facto any interpretation of them by administrative authorities constitute a fundamental barrier to everyday functioning. And that was the announcement of those organizations I mentioned. Therefore, as an applicant, a representative of the applicants, I contacted these organisations, invited them to talk, to consult, because we have, I say, a ready project, we have submitted, so we want to cooperate, ladies and gentlemen. We want to support the government in this area above all also, yes, but so far there has been no document that we have been able to support. And such a meeting took place, and our initiative these organizations, apart from the Union of Polish Crafts, who did not reach this club consultation, accepted with great interest, it met with support. They pointed out two areas that might require further clarification and clarification, but in general they are all in favour of working on it. I therefore think that the High House will agree that this project should be forwarded very quickly to the committee, as I also request. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, when I ask you questions, I will answer your doubts about your proposals. I just wanted to present to you a position which is also very important in the context of this whole topic, which I am talking about, because in November 2016, the appeal to Prime Minister Beata Szydło was also addressed by the President of the Council of Social Dialogue by Mrs Henryk Bochniarz. I also expect such questions, and there may be questions as to what the Social Dialogue Council is doing in this connection, since the Social Dialogue Council has the competence to give an opinion on the principles of draft legislative acts. So, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, in a letter addressed to you by the Prime Minister, she reminded her of the competences of the Social Dialogue Council and, on the example of concrete examples, said that this institution is unfortunately overlooked on matters relevant to the social partners. The position of the Social Dialogue Council is being undermined, it limits the capacity to be responsible and thus the motivation and involvement of the members of the Social Dialogue Council. There was therefore an appeal to ensure compliance with the law imposing the obligation to consult draft legal acts with the Social Dialogue Council, trade union organisations and employers' organisations. In the opinion of the President of the Council of Social Dialogue, the project mentioned here the project "For life', it was also examined without the provisions on consultation with trade unions and employers' organisations. So that I have here an appeal to the High House to refer this proposal to the committee so that we can all work together on it, perhaps add a number of additional elements to this project, which will surely meet with the positive reception of its addressees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u206	Thank you very much, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to a group of seniors from Kraśnik, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on freedom of business from printing 1848. Project applicants justify the proposal to supplement the existing Freedom of Business Act of 2 July 2004, as amended, with the need to improve the law for entrepreneurs - especially micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice also recognises the need to supplement the Law on the Freedom of Business with a number of new solutions on issues that pose a problem in business activities, but unlike a group of Members of the applicants of the draft law, who propose to introduce a new chapter on the government's commitment to present every time an assessment of the expected impact on entrepreneurs in government authorities' bodies of draft laws and regulations, we plan to write a bill for entrepreneurs, as it were. Let me not develop. here exactly the issues related to the detailed arrangements proposed by the applicants, because on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I am making a proposal to reject in full the first reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the Law on Freedom of Business. You'll accept, Mr. Marshal... [[You guys are really out of your league.]] I justify it in this way: in the near future, the Sejm will have a draft law known as the "Constitution for Entrepreneurs," which will be a serious proposal to solve in a comprehensive way the problems related to the broadly understood activities of entrepreneurs and which will completely repeal the provisions of the Law on the Freedom of Business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u208	Thank you. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two weeks ago, the World Economic Forum announced an annual report on the competitiveness of national economies. In the latest edition of the report Poland was on the 39th place on 137 classified countries in this ranking, which means a three-place drop from the 36th place where we were. We've been in this ranking for the last few years, as you say sometimes, for the last eight years, but the PiS is capable of ruining everything. If we look closer at this ranking - it covers 12 pillars of competitiveness, mostly our competitive position has improved and improved, for example in terms of infrastructure, but unfortunately they are dragging down institutions, state institutions, i.e. PiS. That's what's dragging us down today: the PiS rule. And two examples: transparency of government policy on business, 116th place in 137 countries, effectiveness of key government regulations in this area: 118th place for, I will remind you, 137 countries. Can anyone be surprised by the investment collapse in Poland in this context? I think only Prime Minister Morawiecki, to whom, it seems, is not clear that the main reason for reducing these investments is the questionable regulations of the PiS government, which lead to uncertainty of the legal system, especially the tax system. We have every 2 weeks, in principle, often after several projects for each meeting of the Sejm, which make changes in the tax system, change the rules of operation of Polish entrepreneurs, projects aimed mainly at restricting freedom and economic freedom. This leads to a strong feeling of uncertainty for entrepreneurs. This uncertainty is now reaching such dimensions as it has never been before. There is no comprehensive vision of the functioning of the tax system, and, as I say, we are once again accused of projects which are ad hoc attempts to regulate different spheres with a very clear imbalance between the public interest and the interests of the taxpayer. We are really going in the wrong direction, and at the same time we do not see any progress or signals indicating that we want to put these issues in order. There is a question of the Tax Order, on which the previous government has already started, and we do not really know what is happening to it, but as a result of such a Tax Order we also need comprehensive changes as regards the material tax law. If we want to listen to the voices of entrepreneurs, it is enough to refer to the European Economic Congress in Katowice, where entrepreneurs emphasized that the quantity and quality of the law is a problem for the functioning of entrepreneurs in Poland, it translates into the difficulty of doing business. It has been pointed out that we are dealing with overregulations, in fact breaking the law already at the legislative stage, especially in the fast legislative path. This project aims to reduce this type of practice and, however, that the government has a slightly deeper reflection on these regulations, because they are key [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the point of view of our future, because if we do not organize them, we will not change them, then the investment collapse will continue, and that is what our future, the future of Polish families really depends on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u210	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the Act amending the Freedom of Business Act. I will not describe this law exactly, because it is quite short, actually located on four or five pages, and has a very rich justification, several dozen pages. At the same time, here we have actually heard all the details necessary for us to get to know this law, from Mrs Janyska's point of view, which has quite thoroughly discussed the need to proceed with this law and what it brings. The law is really affecting a very important problem because it affects the problem of consulting draft laws with the persons concerned. This applies to all practically social groups, but in the case of entrepreneurs it is extremely important. It follows this rule: nothing about us without us. This is a principle that is very important in business, because business has its long-term consequences, and apart from the fact that we need to create for business a favourable framework in the form of a fiscal system or, say, low or decently low taxes, a fiscal system such as that which will be simple, the whole legal framework, it is necessary to plan our business activity, there is some predictability - some predictability and stabilization of legal acts that allow us to make long-term decisions. At the moment, unfortunately, we have had this situation for many years now, when a whole series of projects have been launched that are not consulted with the entrepreneurs they directly touch. In fact, apart from the fact that they're doing their business, that they're busy people, they have to keep track of this legislation all the time so that they don't accidentally miss something and not be surprised by some solutions that are being put in place. In my opinion, it is decency for Parliament to organise the whole system of introducing new laws in such a way that we go out and ask those concerned what their opinion on these projects is. On the one hand, it will actually exclude legislative bubbles, with which we also have very often to deal with and which are later subject to revision very quickly - we all know such projects that pass quickly through the Sejm, there is no consultation, and after a month there are already first amendments to them or the first amendments, that is extremely harmful in the legislative process and burdensome for business - but on the other hand it will also allow us to work out much, much better law. It seems that consulting these projects with non-governmental organisations, with business associations will really cost us little, and at the same time it will be much cheaper for you. This country will be cheaper because making the law of good is cheaper than making the law of evil and fixing it. That's why I think... Of course, there is one more thing - these consultations must be a logical whole. It is not that we should consult with all possible organisations. It is often the case that some laws are consulted with organisations that absolutely do not work at all in this regard, just to fill in some such formality. As a Kukiz club15, we fully support this bill and we are in favour of directing it to further work, because it clearly clarifies the conditions that government projects must fulfil, but also imposes a certain consultation obligation on the so-called. parliamentary projects or senate projects. We said from the beginning that we should ask people, because this is really a sovereign and entrepreneurs are a very important element of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u212	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u213	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Posel Club as regards the project, which has just been very well described by the Member and summarised by the Member. We are very much in favour of this project. Why? And why am I surprised at the position of the Law and Justice that asks me to reject this project at first reading? We in this place should serve the nation, we should serve the citizens. We do not do this well if we quickly recall some rules, introduce them, and require our citizens to adapt to them. We often do not realize the great cost for those who are later affected by this law. I say this as an entrepreneur with an internship of the 20s who worked for big corporations, but he also ran his own business. As far as the new laws are concerned, small, medium or micro-entrepreneurs usually analyze them on weekends because they don't have time a week. We work from morning to evening, we work to satisfy our customers, to make money that allows us to pay salaries and taxes, and lastly to satisfy ourselves, because we also have to function as entrepreneurs. So the more we think about entrepreneurs, the more time they have to work later. Why is this job important? We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about 2 million people who produce most of our GDP. In fact, we owe it to them that Poland has been developing rapidly for 20 years. Why does the Law and Justice say to these 2 million people: we will not listen to you, we do not want to take your opinion into account in the projects that concern you? To me, that's a cruel statement. So that I hope that the result of my speech and those which the Law and Justice will hear today in the context of this project will be a change of position. Even if this aspect is addressed in the constitution for entrepreneurs, what are you waiting for? Why don't you want to talk to the people you want to be so close to, the ones you're talking about, that they're important to you? So that I hope that the revision will come and we will not wait for the constitution. We will adopt this law, which will require us to ask the citizens how they look at the law. You don't have to create it quickly, but you have to create it well. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u214	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the modern will support, will be in favour of referring this law to the committee, and I will say this: the law, the law, but good practices are also necessary. And here I will address a very large number of Members of Law and Justice. There are laws in the Sejm that concern economic, labour and business matters. The point is not that such laws, which should be included in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, unfortunately do not go there. We had an example of a trade ban law on Sunday, a pharmacy bill for a pharmacist. Unfortunately, the practice is that these laws are being avoided because some committees, that the chairmen of these committees are not law and justice, and they should be there. I therefore call on Members of the Law and Justice to go to the Committee on Economic Affairs, if that is what we propose. I will not hide my surprise at the proposal of Law and Justice to reject this law at first reading, because I would like to remind you that this law so clearly clarifies the provisions of the law which was adopted in January this year by Parliament. It was the President's bill. It was a very general law that did not indicate, in such a good case, the ways in which we should be guided, that this law should be better. When the Law and Justice have seen this bill, I do not recall it paying attention to the President: Mr President, give it a rest, there will be an entrepreneur's constitution in a moment, why take the time of the Members, we will settle all of this. No, it is simply that the dispersal of the Law and Justice stems from the fact that Law and Justice assume that any good solution proposed by the opposition should go to the basket, and that all Law and Justice laws, sometimes even the dumbest, are to be prosecuted and to be accepted. It can't go on like this. Besides, we have a pretty funny situation at all. We are aware that we should make a good law. And right now, in order to create a good law for entrepreneurs, which is one that will be well prepared and consulted, we need to create another law that forces us to create a good law. We can't get far that way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u216	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is only necessary to agree with the argument of this part of the room which was here in terms of creating a good law, a law serving those for whom it is created, and above all for entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In the previous eight years, many good things have been done. Minister Haladyj can confirm that. These figures, which were falling, show that Poland was moving upwards in terms of improving the functioning of the law in terms of readability, transparency and simplicity of this law. In this madness that we are dealing with today when it comes to creating law in this Chamber, entrepreneurs are lost. They don't know what's real and what's an election campaign. Let me be clear: the political narrative is different because it is still in the electoral campaign, while the reality is different. If this small businessman, who does not have a specialized camera, does a lot of tasks himself, listens to all of this, gets lost and makes mistakes very often later. This isn't right. We finish the election campaign, we start reality, we walk hard on the ground. When the message that goes to entrepreneurs is clear and legible, then they know what to do. Another thing is the government's position. It is very often the case that the government is relinquishing its position. Law and Justice report the project, while the government has no position. It's used every day. I remember perfectly well the bill that was called lex Szyshko. We walked around these committees, we worked on more projects, and the government had no position. And surprisingly, the government simply said: we have nothing to do with this, this is a parliamentary project, please ask the Members. Members got lost and didn't know because the government had prepared a bill, and the Members didn't know what to say, because it was the government that had to implement this law through its institutions, its bodies. And that was the fun, that was the weird fun. What were the consequences, we all know. It is therefore important that the law is clear, clear, transparent. However, I would like to say this: the law also serves ordinary citizens, and we should pay attention to how it will affect ordinary, ordinary citizens, pensioners, those who are ordinary officials, go to work somewhere, but at some point this law will reach him in the sense that he will have some contact with this law. We should also take into account in our position, in the impact assessment of the regulation on life, on the situation of individual citizens. Let me give you an example. The very good solution that we have put in place, at the moment it was so ad hoc for me to think about reducing the burning of bad quality coal - we know, we fight smog, the problem is huge, we make good laws that order burning good quality coal. But it was known in advance that this coal would be more expensive, that citizens who buy coal for heating their own apartments would have to pay more, it is said that 30% even increased the price of coal, because today they are already within 1000 PLN. But did we then think about how a pensioner who has PLN 850 will cope with this 30% increase in the price of coal? Is there enough money for him? Isn't that how we make him huge? [[♪ The bell ♪]] harm and harm? Therefore, we will be proposing in the case of this law in further work to take into account the citizens, because today we have this drama. That's why we offer benefits for pensioners because people are short of money. 850 zł gets pensions, 1000 zł for 1 t coal has to pay. As an example I give this, but such situations happen very often, so it is necessary to take into account the life and functioning of every citizen of the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u219	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Around the European Union, Democrats are in favour of a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Freedom of Business for three reasons. The first reason: because this law, very short, concise and at the same time very concrete, is intended to guarantee greater legal security of the functioning of small, medium and even micro Polish enterprises. There is no doubt that this part of the Polish economy, these micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, are the salt of the Polish land. Like foreign companies, large foreign investors locate their production, their plants and their businesses in our country, following a macroeconomic context, so we are aware that if this context changes and changes with the economic development of the country, as the level of wages increases, together with the expansion of the zone of joint trade in the context of expanding the European Union, then, of course, may not at any time, but in a few years' time, these large companies, which are an important part of the Polish economy today, can move their plants, their production, their activities into another region of Europe and even beyond Europe. In the case of Polish entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, there is no such risk associated with their activities. That is why it is absolutely necessary to guarantee them the most friendly conditions of operation and management, especially since - as Mr Pudłowski said - this is a multi-million-dollar crowd. Most of Polish GDP comes directly from their activities, from the courage they have chosen to take matters into their own hands. The second reason why we are in favour of working on this bill is a balance that should accompany every authority in social dialogue. Today the trade unions of the employers' parties are designed and secured legally, so that every draft law, any regulations should be consulted with this party. This is a guarantee for trade unions and trade unions representing employers. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who already have their representative organisations and associations should also be treated - by the legislator, by the government, by institutions that propose legislative changes and new regulations - at least the same as employers. Finally, the third argument, which can also be read in the explanatory memorandum of this law, which is ours, the parliamentarians, the experience of this term, is a sloppy way of establishing law, we are circumventd by the obligation of inter-ministerial consultations and public consultations by replacing government projects, de facto government, the institution of parliamentary projects, through rapid, sometimes night-time deliberations, which do not allow us to properly work on new solutions, so that these new proposals, new laws, new regulations can be properly consulted. In view of the above, it is necessary, especially for this authority, to have such statutory safeguards as would require and require this power, the Government of Law and Justice to consult on mandatory economic regulation with representation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we will, we are opposed to the proposal to reject this project. We are not surprised at the position of Law and Justice, but we believe that there may be some fair people in the PiS club and we will put this project together for further work, because both this project and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs deserve to be given due consideration to their problems in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u220	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u221	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions for the applicant. Is it true that between November 2015 and November 2016 up to 40% the laws adopted in Parliament are parliamentary drafts by Members of the governing party which do not require inter-ministerial arrangements, public and public consultations, full opinion and regulatory impact assessment procedures, which, of course, poses a risk of more errors and adversely affects the quality of the legislation? Is it true, Commissioner, that in 2016 investment in Poland was drastically slowing down compared to 2015 and this trend continued in 2017? What were the indicators? Do entrepreneurs, as a reason for reducing investment, indicate questionable legislation under the rule of law and justice, the introduction of legislation creating tax inequality and the restriction of freedom and economic activity? And is it true that this law has been consulted with the economic environment, it is expected, and its entry into force will have a positive impact on forward-looking development decisions and related investments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This is a very good bill, which will prevent the creation of law in an excessively accelerated manner, without public consultation, without opinion, including the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, which happens most often during this term of office of the Sejm. Very often these projects are a manifest mistake. There are many examples to this. I have a question for the applicants: Has this project been consulted with whom it was consulted and what are the results of the consultation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u224	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question to the applicant, Madam President: Do you think that if these rules enter into force, we will somehow significantly restrict the introduction of laws into the Sejm as parliamentary laws? And will this bill, however, force applicants to ensure that these projects which go to the Sejm are properly prepared and consulted? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u227	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the abuse of the procedure for reporting government laws as parliamentary projects by the current government team, which has been said to occur, up to 40% of all projects, as well as avoiding public and public consultations and inter-ministerial arrangements and assessing the impact of regulation on the activities of companies and firms, it seems appropriate to restore and exploit social consultations and economic analyses of their importance. It cannot be that the law is already being violated in the legislative process itself, and that is the way it is now. The report of the Polish Employers, which was recently issued, defines in detail the regulatory burdens and obstacles to the conduct of business implemented under the PiS from November 2015 to July 2017. These are laws that are mostly introduced as parliamentary. They concern banking tax, freezing of land traffic, windmill law, commercial tax, water law, etc. Would you therefore agree that consistent laws, preceded by analyses, consultations and opinions of entrepreneurs, are an opportunity to create a good law? And the question to the government of PiS, to the ministry, because the fact that the club did not support, does not mean that the government cannot support this law, this amendment. Will the PiS government therefore support the amendment of the Freedom of Business Act with a view to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another question to the applicant: Does the proposal not limit the parliamentary legislative initiative, in which case 15 Members have the right to submit it today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u228	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u229	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The question is to the Minister: Do you know the reports of the Employers of the Republic of Poland? If you know them, you should take care of them, and you should influence the position of the club. First deregulation report, and basically regulatory. Look at this. The curve has been rising by 87 points since December 2015. This is still the legislative acquis of the PiS. Another report, seven sins of major lawmaking in Poland. I will read: incorrect consultations, secret projects, MEPs, rushes, lack of competence, overregulation, legal instability. Sin one is an unreliable consultation - 39% drafts of laws. This is for the first 13 months of your operation. 246 legislative projects have been analysed. Since there isn't much time, I will go to sin six. It's overregulation - 12% and legal instability - 16%. These are all employers' arguments, entrepreneurs' arguments for this project to exist. And I would like to say yes, Mrs Malik: this project may be affected, but it should not be the same as the amendment of the Hunting Law on Hunting Damage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For a year and a half, you can't solve a simple problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u230	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u231	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Indeed, for every reasonable, rational man, not just a Member, this is so obvious that it should not actually be discussed. Well, it's a shame that the ruling party has a position in this case to reject it. But it's probably all about rejecting everything that doesn't have a PiS stamp -- I think that's what it's all about -- even the best, rational solutions. The issue is extremely important and I would also like to thank the colleague who presented this project. But I have a question for you. It seems to me that it would be worthwhile to think about the deadline for consultations, respecting, of course, entrepreneurs or organisations, this minimum deadline, a little longer. Since the government is proposing a deadline of up to 30 days, and we are, i.e. Entrepreneurs, we have 14 and 21, then consider whether this period should be a little longer so that there is no rush. As one of you has said here, only on weekends do entrepreneurs have time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant relating to my experience. This situation has happened to me several times. The draft was either a parliamentary proposal or an amendment was tabled by a Member, there is a committee meeting and it is clear that I am asking a question to the Member who tabled the amendment, whether the Member or the Member or the applicant or the applicant. And several times it happened that I was immediately answered by a representative of the Ministry. I ask: Is this a new custom, or are these some new relationships forming and it is out of kindness e.g. That's what the government does? Is this some new kind of Savoir vivre, or is there any other reason for this? I know you have more experience. [[♪ The bell ♪]] than me and that's why I'm just asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u234	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna refer to a few things that were raised here, by the way. If we're talking about an OSR project, let me try and approach it right now. I am not questioning the Member's absolute intention. We have worked, we have worked together many times, we have argued several times at committee meetings about some solutions. This has always been a very substantive discussion, and it has never been based on any emotions, etc., so as if I want to take this project seriously too, because the subject is of course important. No one, I think, is questioning that. Right away, I'm sorry, half joke, half really, because here one of the Members said in the end that this project is so obvious that it should not be discussed at all. So jokingly I'm going to say that this is the first mistake of assuming if we talk about OSRs, because this is not the way to implement OSR policy. An OSR policy is nothing more than a law based on evidence. And when you approach the project and say it's so obvious that it doesn't require any discussion at all, that's it. It's like the first such mistake. As to the assumption. But that's, like I said, a little bit by the way. We are talking about OSR, which is a policy based on evidence, about a project that is to raise the standards of the law, and here in many statements there were such words: 'Everyone says,'very often', 'knows that'. Well, again, if we really want to talk about the OSR project and the tools first of all, then we should approach it in evidence, which is to show the real impact. I'll refer to all kinds of rankings, etc. Minister Cichoń referred to this ranking, it seems, the ranking of the global competitiveness of the economy and okay, there is indeed a decline of three positions, but precisely as far as the regulatory and institutional environment is concerned, the sub-ranking of this ranking has been promoted by seven positions, so this also shows that not all information from such a general circulation or short-term use is later reflected in the facts and detailed discussion. Similarly, in the case of issues relating to the identification of barriers by businesses in terms of bureaucracy, the institutional and legal environment, the law. I'm not denying it, I'm not questioning it, because if it weren't, a part of the Ministry of Development could be closed for four triggers and go home, but it's a barrier. But - in answer to the Member's question immediately, yes, I read all the reports and I think that quite precisely - at the same time in these reports I am seeing a trend in the opposite direction, i.e. that the issues of bureaucracy or the institutional and legal environment are falling down, are pointed out as negative barriers to doing business. And they're... Of course, these indicators if the rankings could be called tens, but right here we definitely have a different trend. And so is the investment. As far as investments are concerned, right now, it seems that in the second quarter we had an increase of 0.8% compared to a quarter to a quarter. And this is the third quarter in a row, when the investments are growing, so it also looks different based on data. The inheritance trend was earlier. This is also linked to this transition from one perspective to another in terms of European funds, but today this trend has already been reversed. As far as the figures on the number of parliamentary projects are concerned, I understand that this should concern primarily the drafts of the governing party - not only this term - but also here I do not notice any drastic differences between terms. It was the Member who referred to the figures for 40, 13 and 15%. . But before today's meeting we also asked the law firm and on the basis of our data it looks a little different, that in the first full year of 2016 there were 30% of parliamentary initiatives in the governing party, and in 2017 we have 11% Which means we have a very strong inheritance. [[You count the Members as your own.]] If we're talking about the inflation of the law, which is the number of regulations that have been adopted, it's also the first time since... I say it again, and I read all these reports, and I don't remember when there was a drop in the number of regulations passed. Compared to the third quarter to the third quarter, we have 45%. less regulations. As far as percentages are concerned, the data we have shows that in the 7th term of office, for example. was 25% , taking this together, with 34% in 2013. I don't want to race in here because it's not my nature, but it's not as one-sided as it is here in a few statements. I refer again to the Member's question as to whether I am reading. I've been reading these reports for at least a few good years, and this kind of report isn't one government's thing. With regard to the (de) regulatory report, I can say that this should not be a determinant of whether the law is good or bad. Because what was included in this report to regulate? All laws related to, for example,,, I don't know, tax sealing, some kind of liquidation or limitation of civil contracts. Some of these provisions come in at the request of entrepreneurs themselves. It is not that you can only deregulate the law so that it works well in the report, because because there are some effects associated with sealing, e.g. we can then go out with some of our initiatives, such as last week, when we put a project into consultation, in which, for example. We allow a one-off loss settlement by the entrepreneur, we allow the cost of remuneration of the entrepreneur's spouse to be added to the cost of obtaining income. These are changes that cause a lot of cost to the budget, but they are also possible thanks to the fact that earlier activities have taken place, which in turn have brought some revenue and also according to such philosophy - as I think - undisputed by any political party, that we are directing certain repressive or control actions that are sealing precisely into the grey or even black zone, so that, if these actions are effective, we can direct a certain, quote, offer to entrepreneurs, that is to say, we are following the demands of entrepreneurs for some changes that have been raised for years. It is also a mechanism of connected vessels and cannot take one data and through their prism evaluate the whole reality so unambiguously. [[That's why I suggested you read the reports together.]] Yes. And I guarantee that I promise, if it means anything to you that I am reading these reports and really trying to draw conclusions. I can also say that all the initiatives of the Ministry of Development that we present to Parliament are de facto the result of talks with entrepreneurs. I would even say more: it is not that we prepare these projects and send them to consult or suspend them on the website, but first we collect it - it is about these pains of entrepreneurs - we try to sit over the problem and then look for a solution. I can honestly say that these projects are created in this way, so we have a pre-consultation rather than just a consultation. There was also this example - as an example I understand it - pharmacy for pharmacists. Let us not expect that the OSR is a tool that will not allow the bill to be passed, or that, I do not know, the result of the OSR will cause all buttons in the room to ignite in red, the Member will not even have to press, because it came out of the OSR. The OSR is and can only be a decision-making tool supporting rather than replacing substantive decisions and political decisions. Here, too, was this postulate: business constitution, speeding up work. I will just say so chronicle so that the Law of Entrepreneurs and the Law which accompanies the Law of Entrepreneurs was adopted by the Permanent Committee a week ago, so I hope that we will be giving them an assessment of your Members in a moment. Immediately moving smoothly to such a more formal argument: the Freedom of Business Act will be fully repealed by the Law of Entrepreneurs if, of course, the Sejm, the Senate, and then the President shares the position of the Government. [[Exactly.]] We also see this problem related to the way in which the law is created, or the need to strengthen certain rules on the creation of economic law, only that we approach this mainly from the point of view of countering burden generation for entrepreneurs, unnecessary burdens, those that are not necessary. Because there isn't one either, I think, the government... There is no expectation that the law cannot generate any burden for entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, reality is changing and you have to react to things, but it's about not generating unnecessary burdens. In the project, we do not approach these rules from a procedural point of view, but try to touch this problem of creating burdens for entrepreneurs. The purely procedural issues related to the creation of the law are, in my opinion, a more domain of the rules of procedure: the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Senate. If we analyze this project or analyze the solutions contained in this project, then I do not see any elements that will be new to the government administration, that these obligations or requirements will come to us. More like all the things that are indicated here, the government is doing. I'll tell you more: there are even more of these responsibilities. This system, I have the impression, is also a little more complementary, because the point is not only to set requirements for lawmakers, administrations, officials. This requirement is only one, so I would say from my experience, with four elements. The second element must be filters, which then allow to assess whether the requirements have been properly met... Not only fulfilled, because if we compare OSRs from a good few or a dozen years ago with today's, it's heaven. And the earth. They could be OSRs on 300 pages, where there was no content, because they were written down, I'm sorry, various types of pharmacy that didn't have any influence on the decision-making process, but they filled the pages of the manuscript perfectly and it looked very serious. As a result, it seemed that the OSR was fulfilled, but it was only by entering into the content that, in principle, it could be questioned. I immediately say that I am not referring to any, so to speak, a term of office, but I am reaching a few, several years behind when we started to strengthen this OSR policy as an administration too. Therefore, in these solutions we do not really see the added value for the government itself, because it all applies with excess, means not with excess, but with the point that I say so. There are more obligations here, so it may be more a matter of processes or procedures, but in other bodies that have a legislative initiative. The Constitution speaks of a certain autonomy of the Rules of Procedure of both Chambers of Parliament. Maybe this is more a matter for discussion here. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to... There is a distortion of design thinking logic, which is the OSR, because in these solutions the causal link between the impact assessment and the substantive solutions is affected. In my opinion, it cannot or should not be - it should not be for me to decide - a solution which imposes an obligation to prepare an assessment of the impact of the regulation on a body other than the regulatory body, in addition after the preparation of the project and even after the entity has expressed its position. If the impact assessment is to have a real dimension, it must be prepared before the project is created. If the Council of Ministers expresses a positive position and as a result of this is only the preparation of the OSR, it is, unfortunately, necessary to conclude that such an OSR is only a formal requirement, because once the decision has already been taken by the authority concerned, it is in principle The OSR only adapts to this decision and in no way does it fulfil its role. On the other hand, the OSR should also influence the decision-making process - not in the way I said earlier, binding or decisive, but nevertheless the logic of legislative solutions should be affected. I'm on my way to shore, because I suppose that's also the expectation... [[Yeah, we had an acceleration.]] ... slowly ending just now, it seems to me that it is not the secret of success in setting such formal requirements, so that we can say that we are satisfied with the impact assessment of the regulation, although I also do not know whether this condition is ever achievable. We talk to countries of the type, I don't know, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, which, you can say, are the leaders in this area, and it's not like there's just everyone smacking their fingers that it's great and you don't have to work anymore. Mr. Marshal's already pulling me out of the podium, so I'm gonna follow that order. I will just end with such a more light thought - the fact that the OSR is not simple and not always enough formal requirements, also shows this project, because here there is no de facto assessment of the impact of regulation. So it's like it's just showing that it's hard. [[I don't think there's a requirement yet.]] But in the case of such a project, I would say the standards should be raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u236	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Maria Małgorzata Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The time we have spent on this project shows that it is a very important project and that it is very necessary because it was not necessary to slip - except for the representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice nobody has so unintelligibly passed on this project. Indeed, the statements of all the clubs that you have witnessed here, including those of the Minister, show that this really should be taken into account. There is no time here, in this House and at this moment, for all these advantages, but also perhaps some doubts that should be resolved in the legislative process... The project should be directed to work in committee. Unfortunately, I regret that our strength authority, I am talking about math in the Sejm, does not want to lean on it, and that with such a lightness the Member who represented the PiS club, says that we will not accept this law, we are filing a motion for rejection because we are planning to rewrite the law. I don't know who we're planning on doing this as a parliamentary project. I hope, Minister, that you will not pass on any government laws to Members because they will not be able to deal with this, really. I hope that the State from the Ministry will pilot all these laws, which are intended to improve the functioning and create even better conditions for entrepreneurs, but that you will be piloting, because I have much more confidence in you than in the Members who take up projects and then are unable to respond to them and, preferably, to submit a motion for rejection. Ladies and gentlemen, another argument. She said that there would be a serious project in the Sejm soon, i.e. it was as if she had made it clear that this project was not serious, and I am convinced that she does not know at all what it contains, that she does not understand the project at all and does not analyse it, because if it were not so, she would have given it even a little more time, out of respect even for herself, to present herself differently to this House. I no longer require respect for us, because the second year in a row of this respect, Members of the opposition, respect for the rights of Members, unfortunately, do not receive. I'm gonna get to the questions right now. The question was, ladies and gentlemen, is it the fact that there are so many parliamentary projects. The Minister here referred in various ways to the reports, but, Minister, I merely supported myself in the explanatory memorandum with an analysis of the organisation of an independent, Citizens' Legislative Forum operating at the Batory Foundation, which has been doing such analyses every year for many years. I'm sure by the end of this year there'll be an evaluation of the passing year. These data, which I quoted, covered the period from November 2015 to November 2016. These are facts, data calculated, checked, and certainly true. The same is true of all the other shortcomings I mentioned not only from the analysis of entrepreneurs - because it can be said that entrepreneurs may have some lobbyist interest in making the law in their own way. No, these are experts, these are bank experts, these are scientists, law firms. They're really people who aren't, so to speak, very often involved. There was a question of consultation as to whether this project had been consulted. Finally, the Minister was gracious to note that if we are involved with such a project, an impact assessment should be carried out. Minister, I have done what we have done in this law as a minimum of the requirements we have addressed to the parliamentary projects, i.e. I have consulted the project, because in this project á about the parliamentary projects we are proposing that information or the results of consultations with the organisations indicated in the act be presented in the explanatory memorandum. I have consulted with those organisations that have called on your legislators to finally speed up their work on lawmaking for entrepreneurs, because they are waiting for this because they cannot develop, they cannot invest. And they can't work well. So it's done. In this law, we propose an impact assessment on activities so that the government does so in relation to non-governmental projects if it supports them in whole or in part. This is very logical and obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way we are really going to stop this bad business, which is that if it is so easy for a government project to hide behind a parliamentary one at an express pace, I suspect that it can be so that in many resorts or departments - I absolutely do not refer it to you because I know your expertise and reliability in what you do, what you do - officials will not and certainly are not mobilized to work honestly on such a project, since it is so easy to pass it on to a Member and at one meeting, and it has happened even without some readings, which is already criminal, but it has been done so. All the safeguards in this law are to improve the quality of the law, which is addressed to the group that invests, is to invest, is to develop Poland, which is to have the effect felt in the pocket of every citizen. The second question was similar to the consultation. I think Mr. Meysztowicz also asked for consultations. The question was whether this project would limit the parliamentary initiative. It will not limit, because the parliamentary initiative is enshrined in the Rules of Procedure. There are 15 Members, there are signatures and the project is made up. The fact of obtaining or not the results of the consultation will not affect whether this project will be rejected. If this is vaguely formulated, then, of course, in the course of the work on this law - if we were to work on it, which I doubt, because unfortunately I do not doubt that this good change will make a wrong choice tomorrow and this project will reject, although we will appeal that this is not the case... These projects would not be analysed because there is no evaluation. It was about helping, including Members, to prepare the project that they are working on so that it is aware that the voices of the environment to be taken into account are already being taken into account, because later it is also much easier to work within the committee. I know this from the autopsy, because that's what I did for both the projects I submitted in that term and for the projects that we are currently doing in the committee. It's always worth knowing. Even if the results of consultations are not included, which are now very often not done, etc., then I'm asking for information myself. That should be the system. It shouldn't be like that, good or bad will, but it should be a system and a duty for us. Speaking of consulting on this project, ladies and gentlemen, I can only express my surprise that Mr. Marshal at the stage of work on this project... After the impact of this project, it could be read on the website that it was addressed for consultation. But we don't know who to, we don't know how. I asked employers' organisations if they had been given this project for consultation. No, they weren't given this project for consultation, so it's a big mystery who consulted him whether it happened at all, and to what extent, if it was just such information, to get him off the hook. There was a question here about the time to consult on whether it should be extended. Of course, we should be discussing this in concrete work on this project. If that's the case, we'll definitely be discussing it. Professor Nykiel asked whether it is normal, from the point of view of my parliamentary experience, that the project is parliamentary and that the question is answered immediately by a ministry official. This is absolutely not normal, nor is it a rule, because if the project is actually parliamentary, then the Member should be so involved in preparing a project that shows that he really does not need any support in response to the most common simple, prosaic questions. Let me put it this way: At the moment, on the example of these parliamentary projects, we can say that we are dealing very often not with the legislative process, but with the legislative process. And I think that's all the questions, ladies and gentlemen. I will refer here to the words of the Minister. Minister, this project is not only about the way in which the law is made and how you and your department approach this issue. In the context of the creation of this project, the work of all resorts was analysed. And in order not to be naked or accused of some subjectiveism, I will only quote the final part of the report, which Wilczyński's colleague already mentioned here: Therefore, the whole activity in the area of entrepreneurship regulation does not look very pink. It is particularly sad that even flagship deregulation initiatives - and here is praise, sir, for some - Mon. A package of 100 changes for companies did not bring significant relief to entrepreneurs. Why? Because the positive effect of the numerous changes contained in this package has been diluted with a whole wave of bad for the business of law. And that is exactly the point: that this bad, diluted law should finally be stopped, so that you can have your support, also in the law in other resorts, in other departments and here, in this Chamber. That's the idea of the project. I'm honestly surprised there's no support for him here. You also said a lot about the OSRs. It is clear to us that the OSR will not replace any decisions and should not be done so that Members simply push buttons and do not have to think. It's obvious, sir. Then I'm going to present the second pole of this reflection: it's not normal that there's no analysis that there's no consultation that there's no results and we're going to press buttons. So, you know, we need to middle up what it's like in science, extreme statistical rejection, and choose this golden measure, and that's all I'm asking for in this project, nothing else. We've talked about a lot of specific solutions, the pre-consultations you've done in your department. I know them because we meet in committees in many cases, but you also remember our discussions and conversations about in-haus, the effects it has had, you know. In some places we will probably talk about this on the occasion of reports that will be examined in committees, etc. Finally, I would like to quote from the position of one of the employers' organisations who consulted this project: This document deserves support. It is expected to be processed as soon as possible, as entrepreneurs expect to improve the quality of the law, to ensure the stability of the legal and regulatory environment today. The amendments contained in the amendment to the Law on the Freedom of Business could then be incorporated into the Government's draft Act on the Law of Entrepreneurs. We probably don't have time for this right now, but we'll also be asking it on the committees. Because I think I have the right text of Entrepreneur's Law after the meeting of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, chapter. 6, in which there are rules for drafting draft normative acts in the field of economic law, and I do not know if I am wrong, but I have the impression that he is more stingy and contains less necessary regulations than his original version. And that's all there is to it. And we could join forces and we could really make a good bill that will serve entrepreneurs, investments and development. But there's no will, ladies and gentlemen. Why don't you think about it by tomorrow and change your will, as I call for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u238	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. [[Marshal, why don't we vote now?]] We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges (Print No 1877). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a government bill amending the law on local taxes and charges contained in print no. 1877. The project aims, starting in 2018, to introduce an obligation for the tax authorities of municipalities to report annually to the Minister responsible for public finances selected information on real estate, agricultural and forestry taxes which are not collected in the framework of the budgetary reporting of local government units. The draft report will contain aggregated information on the tax bases of these taxes and tax bases exempt from these taxes under the resolutions of the municipalities' councils. Information will also be provided on the amount of real estate tax rates, the average price of rye and the average selling price of wood used for agricultural and forestry taxes in the municipality concerned. At the same time, the draft proposes to divide the report into two parts and different deadlines for its transmission, as is apparent from the different dates for the availability of the data covered by the report. Information on tax rates will be provided by the end of the first quarter of the tax year at the latest, while information on tax bases and tax bases will be provided by the end of the third quarter of the tax year at the latest. The information contained in the report shall be communicated only electronically through the Regional Financial Chambers. The detailed scope of the information covered by the report, the model of the report, the deadlines and the manner in which it is transmitted and the manner in which it is drawn up will be determined by the Minister responsible for public finances by means of a regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the proposed project is the implementation of the demands of the local government. The joint government and local government committee has given a positive opinion on this project. The data collected on the basis of the proposed report will significantly increase the capacity to analyse current tax arrangements for real estate taxation and municipal tax policy. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! By passing the bill to the High House for consideration, I hope that it will be welcomed and that work on it will be carried out smoothly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u240	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Małecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement concerning the government's draft law amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. This scope of the draft law fills a specific gap in the area of budgetary reporting of local government units and meets their demands. At present, municipalities are not required to report on real estate tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax, they only provide basic information on the amount of income from these taxes, the effects of lowering the upper limits of tax rates and the benefits and exemptions granted in these taxes under the resolutions of the municipalities' councils. Other data are obtained by the Ministry of Finance through voluntary surveys carried out every several years. This method involves a considerable amount of work, e.g. with the preparation of forms, the development of a way to collect data, which is a great burden and entails the need to bear high costs. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, the proposed rules respond to this situation. They provide for the obligation to provide the Ministry of Finance only by electronic means, through the RIO, information on the rates of property tax, the average purchase price of rye and the average selling price of wood accepted for tax purposes in the municipality during the tax year. It is useful to assess the fact that, thanks to the data collected in this way, the objective will be achieved in order to increase the capacity to analyse current tax solutions and assess the tax policy of municipalities in terms of using the income potential of real estate taxation. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law on amending the law on local taxes and charges and advocates it being directed to continue to process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u242	Thank you. Gos has Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges, print No 1877. The draft amends the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. They consist in supplementing the provisions relating to property tax, although the amendment concerns not only property tax but also agricultural and forestry tax, maybe not as much as the tax sphere. The draft requires the competent tax authorities to report or report on real estate, agricultural and forestry taxes. This report is to be drawn up, from 2018 onwards, through the Regional Financial Chambers. It will be addressed to the Minister responsible for public finances. According to the draft, the report will contain information on the amount of real estate tax rates, the average rye purchase price, the average selling price for wood - i.e. very relevant data on agricultural tax and forestry tax - as set out in the municipality's resolution and adopted for the purposes of the assessment of those taxes in the municipality, but also information on the tax bases, on tax bases exempt from tax. The reports will be transmitted only in electronic form, as I have already said, to the Ministry of Finance via RIO. The existing IT system is to be used for reporting. The Minister has been authorised to issue a regulation laying down the technical details relating to the drawing up and transmission of the report. The project deserves approval, although it means imposing new obligations on municipalities. Furthermore, Mr PiS said that these surveys were labour-intensive for the Ministry and meant costs, so it is easier if it is done by municipalities and not by the Ministry. But it must be understood that the Ministry of Finance, which is to initiate a policy, even in the field of local taxation law, should have full material in this regard. I believe that it is also important to ensure that this information can be used widely not only by the Ministry but also by local authorities, for which it will also be important information about what is happening in other local government units to such an important extent. I think that this is a request that can be met in the manner of issuing the relevant provisions, but also without such a mode. Like I said, this project deserves approval. We believe that it is important in this respect that local authorities should also be able to use this data. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u245	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think I can fit within 1 minute with such a short project, but of course I respect all of you. Print No. 1877 this, seems, expected regulation, very simple, showing another kind of reports, which were submitted to local government units, i.e. municipalities above all and cities on the rights of the county, imposed. Indeed, this lack of reports has so far been difficult, for example. running a multi-annual policy, so this is actually a good idea. There are no reports on the tax base, area or value of exempt items. Here's the interesting thing, indeed. We don't have timelines. Although it was tried to move it to 2019, we think there is absolutely no reason to move it here. I'm curious to react to parole, because I do this kind of thing in my district, and I'm asking about tax exemptions, not basics, but, above all, legitimacy. It is a good thing that we have a regulation in this document right away. Contrary to appearances, this does not burden the local authorities too much. These are relatively simple things. Let me remind you, these taxes don't have that much. Now I'm going to get to the thing that makes me particularly happy. If you call it, ladies and gentlemen, a good change, then the Kukiz Citizen Club is a super good change. And I'll show you why. Because it's... Citizens, we as citizens, parliamentarians from the Kukiz movement, are creating such tax maps of municipalities. Besides, we're doing this for the whole country on the self-government website. And I'll show you what it looks like - phenomenally, broken down into municipalities and all local taxes. So we've done it before, we've done it. In a word, we're ahead of the government, which we're very happy about, like, a year or two, [[Applause]] Because these projects are made by us. The fundamental question here is, of course, whether it is necessary for this law to regulate it a little differently. Of course, I understand that there must be a certain scope here, because the scope of the regulation cannot be wider than the scope in question. In any case, the Kukiz movement sets good directions for the government, and we are very happy about that. Please continue to copy our ideas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u246	Thank you very much. You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's bill on taxes and local fees. The proposed law requires the tax authorities competent for property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax, in this case local authorities, to submit an annual report to the Minister responsible for public finances. At present, there is no obligation to do so. As the Minister has also said here, this data is obtained in the form of voluntary surveys, which, according to the Ministry of Finance, is not only time-consuming but also cost-consuming, and in addition does not give us the opportunity to use this data properly, because not all data can be extracted from this. Such a situation, according to the Ministry of Finance, makes it difficult to conduct a rational tax policy, in particular to design changes or to estimate the effects of these changes. We do not question the need to introduce an obligation to submit annual reports. It is clear to us that such data should be collected for the management of each system. On the other hand, due to the admission that on the basis of data that are publicly available, it is impossible to use them, to draw the right conclusions, it is necessary to say very clearly that this is a bad indication of the state of computerization of the Polish administration. If we are talking about publicly available data, then if they were introduced into the system, then we should simply manage such databases so that various types of data can be extracted, information, including those mentioned by the Minister, such as the level of tax rates per municipality by type. As far as these data are concerned, each of us is aware, by abstracting from tax data, that access to data and drawing correct conclusions from data is always very important. And we are in favour of that, of course. I firmly believe that the data received will be the source of information that will enable and, of course, manage the information effectively. There is no doubt that the introduction of such an obligation is an additional task for municipal authorities. Therefore, this will probably generate some costs. I hope that without any regulation, local authorities will improve this work so that they will be able to minimise these costs radically and that the benefits they will achieve will compensate for these costs. This is crucial because everyone also wants to compare how politics is conducted. The idea is to make good use of patterns, manage data efficiently, so the ability to compare data is crucial here. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern information is that we are in favour of further work on this project in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u248	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the draft law amending the Act on tax and local charges from print no. 1877. Immediately, in order not to repeat what my colleagues have already said, I will say that almost an integral part of this project is a regulation of the Minister for Development and Finance on the tax report of the tax authorities on property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax. This Regulation sets out the detailed scope of the information covered by the tax report of the tax authorities in respect of property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax, the format of the report, the time limits and the manner in which it is to be transmitted and the manner in which the report is to be updated. This is practically an integral part of the change to this project, so I will not repeat the records. In conclusion, I will not say that this is, maliciously speaking, within the framework of cutting red tape, because information is needed, but obtaining it and knowing what is a very good phenomenon... Although, to be honest, I'm having second thoughts. Whether this information will ultimately be used to discipline local governments, that their resolutions are reprehensible because they lower tax rates, that somebody there is relieved of procedures, I am not quite sure. Given the current experience of the government making good changes, I do not know that this is not going to have that purpose. Even in the numerous laws that we make here, which come out to prosecute fraudsters, that is their goal, as if everything is right, but nevertheless we discipline decent entrepreneurs, we tell them to explain themselves, we tell them to present more information than we should. I have such a doubt that the government will not use this project for this purpose. Although the project is logically good, we should have information, it is about using this information later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u250	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan presented her position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the government: Why did you fail to take into account the attention of the metropolitan union, which requested that this report be extended to indicate the tax bases exempt from property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax under other laws for which municipalities do not receive a refund of lost income? [[Applause]] This is a small regulation, I think it would not disturb the legislative process, because I do not accept that in this respect the amendment could not be tabled during the work of the committee. Unless the government doesn't want to know how much money... [[He's cheating.]] ...is pulling, as you say, local government units. I think that knowledge could be useful both for the government and for all the local authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u252	Thank you. You're welcome, Mrs. Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I don't think so about this project. I wonder why the Ministry of Finance wants to expand the reporting of local government units. It is a further centralization of local governments and further burdening unnecessary bureaucracy. After all, the local governments have been given competence regarding the property tax and the legal framework in which they operate. I don't see any reason to check how much real estate has been taxed or not. and what rates are applied in the municipality. The correctness and collection of local taxes are controlled by regional accounting chambers and the Supreme Audit Chamber. Are we going towards the Polish People's Republic, where everything was subject to reporting? I think it's a big exaggeration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u255	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, It follows from the justification of the draft law that some of the provisions were agreed with local authorities, e.g. that the taxable base data are reported in accordance with the state of the real estate tax records kept by the tax authorities as at 30 June of the tax year in which the report is submitted. Minister, have there been other requests in the context of the public consultation? Is it true that so far there has been no data from individual tax authorities on the tax base of individual taxes in the areas or values of objects exempted by the resolutions of the municipalities' councils, as well as data on the tax rates applied in individual municipalities? Is it true that the lack of information so far makes it difficult to conduct a rational tax policy? Last question: Is it true that the collection of this data was also requested by at least some of the local authorities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Communes and districts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you to be polite to develop a topic on the scope and direction of the use of such collected data, an extended catalogue or a range of data, because it must be stated that there is indeed some concern that the new data obtained will be used e.g. to certain maneuvers related to the compensatory subsidy. Self-governments fear such a state of affairs. At this point in time, we have an integrated tax system where tax exemptions actually translate negatively into subsidies. However, this should not be the case, because a common problem e.g. In rural areas, it is only because a person no longer carries on farming or other activities that needs to be freed up, and this results in the fact that the buildings that are subject to tax are simply destroying - they are destroying, because at some point this tax stops paying when the building does not have a roof. So, Minister, I would very much like to ask you to develop this thread, to indicate to what extent you will use this data, and perhaps a little on behalf of the Minister for Regional Development, because he should be very pleased with what you have proposed here, because here there is some potential for a deeper regional policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] based on a new set of data. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u258	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, too, believe that the Ministry of Finance should have knowledge of the real estate tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax that the municipalities collect. Frankly, I am surprised that so far this knowledge of the Ministry of Finance has been fragmented, only because reporting was voluntary. We hear here from the opposition the charge that it could be some cost, an extra cost for the commune. So I wanted to ask you what the cost would be, whether there would be any extra cost at all and whether, in connection with this reporting, the municipalities would have to hire a new employee, whether she would be that large and so on. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u260	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Catherine Czochara, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Currently, the budgetary reporting of local government units covers a range of basic data, unfortunately, concerning taxes which constitute the income of municipalities, including inter alia. tax revenue and income lost as a result of tax exemptions or reductions. At the moment, with regard to this tax reporting, there is no detailed and very important data that influence rational tax policies. Minister, my question is: Will the procedated bill with its records cause that the above-mentioned bill. will the tax reporting also include the data I mentioned earlier? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u262	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u263	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister whether he shares the view that municipalities should have access to the materials thus collected and in what forms, in the Minister's opinion, if the Minister shares this view, municipalities or local government units should have access to this information and material at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u264	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Member of the Commission and Member of the Commission. I have one question: What is the purpose of this reporting? This is another burden on officials and offices. We're creating another bureaucracy. Instead of simplifying procedures, we are introducing changes that bureaucratise offices and are completely unnecessary. I also see a second bottom in this case. It is associated with one - the centralization in which you are so fond of each other. I am also afraid that you need discernment, so that perhaps in the future you can do well to reduce subsidies. I really urge you to leave the local authorities alone, because you're always spoiling things in them. Let the local governments grow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u266	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Małecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to my club speech and I would like to know the position of Minister, because it is said from my speech, according to the professor, that the municipalities will have to increase as if the costs of functioning by introducing this report. From what is read in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, this is not the case at all. And the confirmation of my words is that several times it has already been raised here, that it is also at the request of some local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u268	Thank you very much. Minister Wiesław Janczyk will answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for leaning on this government project. In a discussion that began in a very stable way, we reached the point where a number of important questions were raised, which should also be answered in order to free you from concerns about the aggregation, acquisition, use and sharing of these data. These are very valid questions. Firstly, Mr Gosievski's question about why this happened and whether there were such requests to extend the proposal to include statistical data on statutory exemptions. We are, you can say, in this regulation very synchronized with expectations arising from the position of local government units presented during the work of the local government committee and the government. And for today, the statutory scope that we are presenting could be defined as the first stage for which there was consensus and which was widely agreed. In fact, he will not be able to obtain such information. We do not currently have aggregate data on tax rates or tax bases, sir. With regard to who initiated this change, this is the outcome of these discussions in the joint committee of government and government, to which we attach great attention. This question has been expressed in many words. Local governments want to know how their neighbors manage, how other local governments manage. They want to objectify their parameters, their tax size, especially when it comes to the stakes when it comes to the surface. I think that this is also an argument that shows how in the Council we make the optimal, best decisions within the framework of tax law, for which the authorised local government is used under tax laws, especially the law we are discussing here, about taxes and local charges. An interesting question was raised by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński: What can such data be used for and how can they be valuable to the Ministry of Development? These data will certainly allow the assessment of the work of the local government in applying preferences and reductions in the area of its business activity in relation to the taxation of substances of natural persons which do not, for example, lead. that kind of activity. You can imagine that if this data is made public, it will be possible to aggregate it properly and draw conclusions of this kind, to examine the structure of income from real estate tax, from local taxes. Questions were raised, e.g. Mr Owl of Modernity asked about the state of computerisation. Indeed, the Government of Law and Justice attaches great importance to this. We want to go here with progress, using IT tools. This question has been raised in many speeches - concern about whether or not we will deliver, if the bill is adopted and signed by the President, additional work by the local governments. Looks like it's gonna be a small job. You can estimate it, I don't want to simulate it here, really for one hour or a few hours. This is filling out a form that occupies three pages of A4 format. I am also immediately calming down here, not answering the questions individually, whether it will be an expensive operation, that if we look at the number of hours and the necessary involvement in providing these data, we really do not expect much work here, and the form and format we will simply make available, so that we avoid everything that has happened so far. Data collection and survey collection have forced each time as if to absorb the attention of local authorities when administered occasionally. Here we will have a certain habit, a certain automation and a new quality in the use of these data, also to count the specific effects of individual draft laws prepared and prepared by the government. We want to have in the impact assessment - each time you expect it - very reliable, as best as possible, which notabene then are tested in calendar terms very quickly. The Minister of Finance as one of the few is accounted for every month for whether or not he is forecasting correctly. The Sejm also, if the forecast of revenue and expenditure is good, does not have to work the budget law, and it is a time-consuming occupation. And the government of law and justice is really very predictable today. Apart from the issue of amending the Budget Act last year for the early payment of direct payments in the area of agriculture, which was done for the first time and resulted in a large allocation of funds to rural areas of 9 billion, an increase in the so-called. the deficit of EU funds and the early payment of direct payments, we generally do not come to the Sejm asking for a modification of the budget law, which in the past was a highly absorbing and heavily exploited practice. To get back to the point - the data we present in the OSRs and the effects of the regulations with which we come to the High House must be reliable, and that is why good analytical data, good output data is needed. And I hope that's the way in that direction. Mrs Tokarska asked if we would discipline local governments. You could say no, there's no such prospect here. It must also be acknowledged, in answer to Mrs Henczyca's question, that we are not centralising knowledge here, there is no such process. The Rb-27S report today gives the finance minister considerable knowledge of subsidies. Actually, we're here. we are not entering any new parameters that would be used to obtain new data in this area. As I say, the main principle is to try to get a complete picture of the impact of individual decisions taken by municipalities, cities and districts with regard to local law and the extent to which they have on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also reassured because there were such terms that we would deliver work to individuals. Don't worry, this regulation doesn't mean that anyone who is asked individually will have to work, will have to do something. In fact, I would like to stress here clearly and firmly that these data, these reporting in no way have a specific character, do not have an individual character. I think this is how I will answer Mr Nykiel's question, that we are about to issue reports. If there is demand, we will also aggregate these data, precisely so that local governments are able to make good use of them and observe the situation in their surroundings, not acting alone, but using those arguments that will function easily in the information space that the Ministry of Finance, having this data, will provide to them. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's all on my side. If I haven't answered any questions, we'll possibly be sending the answer in writing. Thank you very much, and I ask that you continue to proceed with the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u270	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. The draft amendment provides for the introduction of a mandatory annual report by the tax authorities competent in matters of property tax, agricultural tax and forestry tax. Information on these taxes will be provided in the form of an electronic report to the Minister responsible for public finances through the Regional Financial Chambers. The reports currently being prepared relate only to the budgetary revenue relating to these taxes and the effects of the reduction of the upper limits of tax rates, the effects of the reductions and exemptions granted on the basis of the resolutions of the municipal council and the effects of the decisions of the tax authorities, which are issued on the basis of the Tax Ordnance Act. Until now, the Ministry of Finance has not had access to data on the tax base of individual taxes, areas or exemptions from charges on the basis of resolutions of the municipal council. There was also no updated information on the tax rates in each municipality. These data were collected only through surveys at intervals of several years. On the basis of such collected data, it was very difficult to conduct a rational tax policy. It was also not justified to design changes in the property tax system because such collected data could be false, falsified. The annual report will include, among others, the amount of the property tax rate. I believe that the amendment of the law will increase the possibility of analysing current tax solutions. It will be easier to estimate the structure of revenues by type of tax entity and to determine the average rates of taxes per municipality. This will allow for a more rational tax policy, so it will benefit all of us. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u272	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on local taxes and charges, contained in print No. 1877, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I now declare a time-out. 16.30, because we are waiting for the Minister to consider the 12th item on the agenda. Time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 21 hours 16 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals (print No 1878). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Personal Income Tax Act. It is a complex of provisions aimed primarily at sealing the income tax system. Over the last term of office, we have seen a significant drop in income from this in relation to GDP. The aim of the Act is to restore this relationship to adequate levels and in accordance with the European standard. The gasification of the income tax system proposed in this Act is carried out by implementing a number of provisions created specifically for the situation in which our economy is in place, but also by implementing a European Union directive, called the ATAD Directive, which also goes towards sealing the income tax collection system. Our proposal also includes a number of business facilitations, mainly aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises. The Act also amends the tax-free amount, i.e. those who are not engaged in business activities, and changes aimed at enabling taxable persons to submit a number of notices and declarations by electronic means. We are also changing - we can even say that we are simplifying - the clearing of provisions for bad loans in banks and adapting the rules already technically to the new classification of fixed assets. With regard to the main trend of changes, namely the sealing element, the first basic thing that this law introduces is the separation of the calculation of the company's performance account, the VAT taxpayer, into two baskets of revenue and costs. Unfortunately, the operations in the field of capital transactions, whether real or created by the company, often with negative results, were compensated for by operating revenues. The effect of these activities was that the operating income company, by creating losses in the capital account at the end of the day, showed zero or minimal income from its operating activities, thus reducing the tax base in the income tax in an unauthorised manner. In many European countries, it is possible to risk that most of these baskets are distributed, which makes companies pay income tax on the value of their real operating income in a manner that is appropriate to the scale of that income. On the other hand, losses or gains in the equity account relating to shares or other equity instruments compensate and this account is conducted separately, and there, of course, revenue, possibly losses, can be shown and accounted for on a general basis. It can be said that this is an accounting similar to what we observe in ordinary taxpayers, individuals, where if I earn in the form of a salary, on an account, but lost on the stock market, I have no right to compensate for these two economic events and I pay PIT tax on my salary, regardless of the fact that in the tax, so-called. Belka tax, on capital gains I have a loss during this settlement period. Thus, this basic separation aims to eliminate capital costs, which often reduce the positive economic result of the business operations. Another thing is to modify the provisions on interest on loans. Today's legislation, which has been amended so far many times, seems to have failed to meet expectations and, unfortunately, have proved ineffective due to quite simple methods that have allowed these restrictions to be observed. Following the OECD recommendations, we introduce restrictions that seem to be more effective. This is another element, so-called. thin capitalization, but there is also a specific provision for limiting the instrument that allows the transfer of interest costs from the financing of acquisitions of companies or holdings to those operating activities downstairs. It also seems that this possibility unfortunately causes abuse and illegally reduces the tax base carried out by companies in Poland. We also modify the regulations for a controlled foreign company. These rules were introduced a few years ago and it can be said that they did not meet their expectations. The amounts resulting from this were disregarded. It also seems that the expectation of the preventive advantage of these provisions has not been met and has not led to the fact that the domicil of these companies is back in Poland. It seems that the provisions we propose will be more effective in preventing significant assets from being transferred to foreign companies. We are also modifying the tax rules on capital groups. There are several detailed solutions that we propose. On the one hand, we loosen up a little bit the corset of these provisions in order to enable taxpayers to use this instrument more frequently. On the other hand, we eliminate an extraordinary gap that persisted, despite the signals about abuse of the so-called. donations within capital groups, this is about completely fictitious transactions that allowed to avoid taxation in Poland. This gap is also eliminated by these regulations. We also introduce a limit on the cost of obtaining income related to certain intangible services: as we limit interest, so we believe that certain categories of intangible costs should have their limit and be referred to the category of economic profitability of the company. We introduce a minimum income tax for entities with commercial and office real estate above the threshold of PLN 10 million. We believe that the mechanism allowing for crediting this minimum tax on ordinary CIT tax causes us to seal the taxation of profitable properties, which so far, as experience teaches, to a very limited extent bear the burden of taxation in Poland. We have a number of provisions concerning, for example, an increase in the flat rate for real estate rented by individuals. Unfortunately, we have observed a situation in which - a small but yet - percentage of people who benefit from flat-rate taxation of this income abuse this preference by repeatedly renting out many apartments, which already brings this activity closer to full-scale business activity and it seems that this privilege 8,5% the rate of taxation of these revenues is not entitled. We also have a number of rules on taxpayers, individuals, and specifically we are increasing the tax-free amount to 8 000. zł. We also have a doubling of the cost limit for creators. Returning to business: we have an increase in the value or limit of a fixed asset subject to one-off depreciation. This is an important increase, because you can say three times: out of 3.5 thousand. PLN currently up to a round sum of 10,000. zł. Let me remind you that in another law we also allow one-off depreciation of up to 100,000. PLN fixed assets, production, modern robots. Therefore, it can be said that in some space we have very pro-investmental tax treatment of expenditure. We exempt the payment of an advance on income tax when the advance does not exceed PLN 1000. This is such a technical simplification. We have a simplification regarding transfer pricing documentation. We remove the obligation if the only condition for the preparation of transfer pricing documentation is a capital link through the State Treasury, which in principle does not lead to restrictions or erosion of the tax base, which undermines the sense of applying transfer pricing documentation in this respect. We also foresee a revision of the rules on the costing of bank reserves by aligning the reserves prepared for accounting purposes with the tax treatment of those reserves in certain categories. We predict that the sum of these changes next year will bring about PLN 1 billion and a hundred and several tens of millions to the state budget for local authorities. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u274	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Lech Szbek, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. This is another project that is the answer to what the PO-PSL coalition did not do or what it did badly. The Law and Justice Club welcomes the project with great recognition, as it is a project involving a very large number of beneficiaries. With regard to these six groups of provisions which are making very significant changes to those laws which are in the title of the project, I would like to pay particular attention first to increasing the tax-free amount. This is another stage in the implementation of the announcement expressed in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. It points to an increase of up to 8,000. the amount of tax-free. The draft law therefore provides for a further increase in the tax reduction amount from PLN 1188 for the basis for calculating the tax of not more than PLN 6600 up to PLN 1440 for the basis for calculating the tax of not more than PLN 8 000, while maintaining the progressive tax reduction amount for the subsequent ranges of the tax base. The introduction of these solutions maintains the diversity of public burdens taking into account the tax capacity of the individual. At the same time, it balances the needs of taxpayers, on the one hand, and the opportunities of the public finance sector, including local self-government units, on the other. In particular, people with the lowest income from work and the vast majority of pensioners will benefit from the tax-free increase. This increase will result in a gradual increase in income available to most taxpayers. Another important element in this respect is an increase of 100%, i.e. up to PLN 85 528 per year, limit for the application of 50% the cost of obtaining revenue for the creators. Another element in this group is the increase in tax exemptions. A significant part of the proposed changes will contribute to reducing the tax burden on benefits received by employees. Designed changes are necessary as employees' income is relatively most burdened by public debts. It must be stressed that the proposed changes will increase the income of households with the lowest incomes, as it is the members of these households who are relatively more likely to benefit from additional social benefits and job support. The second group, the one the Minister was talking about, is a group of regulations sealing the corporate tax system. The main objective of the proposed law is to seal corporate income tax so as to ensure that the amount of tax paid by large companies, in particular international companies, is linked to the actual place where they earn their income. The proposed law is a further step towards the recovery of tax revenues, in particular CIT revenue. The direction of the changes adopted in the project is in line with the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy by 2020 with a view to 2030. The project is also an important implementation in the implementation of the ATAD Directive. To conclude, I would like to express once again the very positive opinion of the Law and Justice Club and request that the proposal be directed to further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u276	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u277	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On the contrary, I can start by calling on the government to finally, after 2 years, present the overall concept of changes in the tax system, because somehow we can't wait to do so. In exchange for this every couple of weeks, and in fact every week, various kinds of tax-related proposals by the government, Members, are coming to the Sejm. In fact, they all combine the fact that it's a thick threading. This is not entirely thought out, and it is not known why the subjective legislation will be repaired. In this case, we're dealing with this kind of darning too. On the one hand, it is under the seal of taxes, on the other hand, we have an adaptation to the directive here. It is good that at least part of the change is aimed at facilitating the business of small and medium-sized enterprises. In particular, we welcome an increase in the limit allowing 50% to be deducted. We are pleased that our provocation in this regard has been successful. You have rejected our project, but fortunately you have reflected that certain decisions need to be taken on this issue. I have very little time, not enough time to address this very extensive project in detail. We've got a couple of cases here. The first concerns the sealing of the tax system or the prevention of aggressive tax optimization. I note that in fact these changes concern international companies that have invested their capital in Poland, creating really hundreds of thousands of jobs. I do not deny, we do not deny the need to counteract aggressive optimization by using derivative financial instruments or profit transfers, but I also note that today the Minister of Finance has instruments such as transfer prices, such as CFCs, such as the circumvention clause. Among the solutions that you have included in this submission is at least a few that raise our doubts. The first concerns the separation in the Corporate Income Tax Act of the source of income in the form of capital gains and the separation of income derived from that source from other income of the taxpayer. It is also a matter of introducing rules limiting the cost of income arising from intangible services contracts, as well as the introduction of a minimum income tax on taxable persons with commercial real estate of significant value. I'll explain briefly why. We will probably be the only country in the Union that will stigmatise all foreign investors without exception, which will lead to a drain of capital and will also hinder the movement of new technologies. The changes will lead to taxation of invested capital. As for the essence of this minimum tax, it is essentially, as I understand it, in the intention of quasi-commercial taxes, but it does not really touch only commercial networks. What about the flow of new technologies, which are often made available to Polish entrepreneurs in the form of intangible services? In my view, in general, these changes will not translate in a measurable way into an increase in the State's income from corporate income tax, and in fact will result in a transfer of capital to the Czech Republic, Romania or Bulgaria. This will also have a negative impact on the functioning of Polish companies. The project also provides for preference for banks to recognise as costs of reserve revenues and write-downs for expected credit losses. And here's the question of where he came from. Aren't SKOKs the inventors of such a solution? How much can this be associated with government action to mitigate the effects of banking tax and buy the favor of banks with regard to STIR, today's project under consideration? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will not be able to commend these solutions, which are beneficial for doing business. I'm sorry, but we really expect much, much more in this respect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u278	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Stefan Kisielewski used to say that socialism is a system in which problems unknown in other systems are overcome heroically. This is well reflected in the government's proposal by the Minister to amend his tax laws. The problem is the existence of these taxes, i.e. PIT and CIT. They should be replaced with much simpler and lower taxes. I move on to the concrete proposals contained in this package of amendments. I very much regret that this is not a systemic change of the entire tax system, that we have a lot of minor changes instead. It is difficult to assess the whole of the bill in a situation where some minor changes are good and others are bad. Some of the provisions, as justified by the project, aim at the so-called. sealing the tax system by combating aggressive tax optimization. It's amazing how nicely and beautifully you can call actually raising taxes. Aggressive is the fiscal policy of the government which encourages companies to pay taxes abroad. Does the government propose to fight the cause of this situation, which is too high taxes? Not in this case. Instead of fighting the cause, the government only wants to fight the symptoms. Worse still, it deepens the causes by raising taxes. Thus, entrepreneurs who will own buildings worth at least PLN 10 million will pay a tax on the value of these properties of 0.035 per cent. In addition, rental revenues above 100,000. PLN per year instead of 8,5% to be subject to a tax of 12.5%. In addition, let's add a limitation on the possibility of depreciation or the inclusion of income costs. What's the effect? Higher prices of services and goods, reducing the attractiveness of investments in Poland, but tax firms already blur their hands, after all, we will need to find new ways to avoid taxation, avoid paying taxes in Poland, and we know that foreign corporations have money for tax advisors. We would all like companies to pay taxes in Poland, but we do not think this is the way. We should reduce taxes and this will guarantee that taxes will come to us, even from companies operating outside Poland. An example is the case of recently introduced water charges, when one of the entrepreneurs from the Lublin province announced that he is a Swiss citizen personally, pays taxes in Poland, but due to tax optimization he will have to do so that taxes in Poland do not pay, pay them in Switzerland to recover this increase in the cost of water charges. Another part is devoted to facilitating business activity. In our view, freedom is the best tool for starting the economy, and it certainly deserves approval. However, one issue cannot be ignored here, namely the government acknowledges that the muzzle of regulation imposed on entrepreneurs unduly impedes business activity. At the same time, this draft law has nearly 100 pages of the normative text itself, with a justification of 500 pages. How is an entrepreneur supposed to act effectively, account with the tax office in this law thicket? The best way to make it easier for entrepreneurs is not to create new regulations, but to simplify the current tax rules as much as possible. Another part of the bill is to increase the tax-free amount. This is action. purely marketing, it is really about citizens thinking that the government has fulfilled its promise, and the truth is that it will only cover people earning 550 zlotys a month. How many people like that in the country? Not much. So there's no big increase in the tax-free amount here. Still, according to us, according to the citizens, the electoral promise was not fulfilled. And another postulate of Kukiz15, i.e. raising the limit to the application of 50% the cost of obtaining revenue for the creators. This is also the request of Kukiz15, we in general wanted to eliminate these limits, notabene imposed by the government of Donald Tusk. Too bad it's only 100%. In conclusion, in my view, as the person who has always declared that she will vote against raising taxes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project increases the level of taxation as it brings an additional PLN 1 billion per year to the state budget. We will not apply for rejection because we hope that 3/4 of these ideas will be rejected in committee, but if the project stays in this form, we will have to reject this proposal at second reading. Because despite small, small issues...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u280	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u281	...it raises taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u282	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u283	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modernly, I am presenting my position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals, print No 1878. The draft Corporate Income Tax Act is intended to implement the ATAD Directive, which aims to counter the transfer of profits to other countries for the purpose of more favourable taxation, namely the pursuit of respect for the principle: taxes are paid where profits are generated. This objective is to be achieved by the implementation by all countries of the European Union of solutions to counter tax optimisation. Although the deadline is quite distant, because 1 January 2019, therefore it is not understandable why you are in such a hurry with these solutions right now. The solutions for sealing CIT tax were already mentioned today, and I will allow myself to focus on issues related to personal income tax, but also CIT. During the exposé, Prime Minister Beata Szydło promised all Polish entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises to reduce income tax to 15% . We have the third budget, the third year of the PiS government. Where is the fulfillment of this promise? Once again you lied, this time the Prime Minister lied to Polish entrepreneurs. Yesterday, from this stand, Mr Morawiecki assured that the PiS did not raise taxes and that in 2018 these taxes would not be raised. And what do you call the introduction of new taxes in this Act in the form of a minimum income tax for owners of commercial real estate worth more than PLN 10 million? A minimum income tax of 0.035 per month will be levied on the tax base thus established. This is a new tax burden. Finally, whether there is a change in the rules for the taxation of rentals: a reduction in the flat rate of 8,5% rental revenues up to 100,000. PLN, more than 100,000. zł you are introducing a new, higher tax rate 12.5%. It's nothing more than raising taxes. Another element is that farmers will not be able to tax income from non-agricultural activities which have so far been allocated to agricultural activities. It's also an increase in taxes. Nor is it as you put it in the explanatory memorandum that you are fulfilling the promise made by Prime Minister Szydło of the exposé concerning the tax-free amount, raising it to 8 000. zł. It's obviously manipulation and it's not true. The Prime Minister promised a free amount of 8,000. PLN regardless of income earned, she promised this to all Poles who pay personal income tax, and the State limits it to income of 13 thousand. zł. Above all, we have a reduction in this tax-free amount. But in order not to be so strict for this bill, of course some changes deserve approval, among others. increase from 3.5 thousand PLN up to 10,000. PLN of the amount in respect of which it is possible to include expenditure on the acquisition of fixed assets directly to the cost of obtaining income. I will remind you that this was one of the elements of the changes in corporate income tax submitted by the Modern. I am glad that you have used this because for many, many years this amount has not been raised, so this should be regarded as an asset of this law. I also believe that raising the cost of obtaining revenue or the annual limit for creators to 85 thousand. zł should be used at all without a limit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It also deserves attention to increase the limits of some redundancies... The limits will increase, among others. with regard to the exemption from tax in the field of assistance, social funds, etc. It's a lot, it actually required Realizations, details.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u284	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u285	In view of the above, the Posel Club The state-of-the-art proposal to refer the bill to further work on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u286	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, I am pleased to express my position on printing no. 1878. The project is very extensive, largely an implementation, at least partial, of an EU directive aimed at combating tax avoidance practices. The objectives of this Directive are based on work in the OECD international organisation. This directive expresses the desire in the income forum for corporate companies to pay taxes at the place where profits are generated and value is generated. In this part, the project concerns large international companies. Within the framework of sealing activities, the project envisages combating tax optimisation, here, among others. Separation in CIT tax of sources of income in the form of capital gains from other income of the taxpayer, also new tax, introduction of so-called "tax." the minimum income tax for commercial real estate of significant value. The project also modifies the tax rules for capital groups, PGK. Here there are certain facilities for reducing participation, hence tax groups will be able to create smaller entities, and certain mechanisms and rules for the operation of these groups are introduced. Banks that apply the international accounting standard will be able to deduct reserves and write-offs into tax costs for expected credit losses. Minor facilitations have also been introduced for small and medium-sized enterprises. My predecessors already said, out of $3.5,000. up to 10 000, the limit on fixed assets, the possibility of one deduction, i.e. depreciation, the exemption from advances up to 1 000. PLN, a very significant increase in the tax-free amount. Here I would like to say that the judgment of the Constitutional Court is being enforced, but to be honest, this is not a simple settlement. I don't know if it could have been easier. Up to 8,000, from 8 to 13 digressively, then from 13 to 85 a fixed rate, above again digressively, and over 127 thousand. without deduction. I have no substantive objections to this, but it is extremely complicated. As far as the others are concerned, for the creators, my predecessors have already said, it's a good thing it's been picked up. There are also uniform rules for taxation in gambling, minor deductions of donations for blood donation, minor rehabilitation allowances for disabled people, among others. you can use a passenger car to carry these people, not necessarily proving that it's rehabilitation. It's just a little change. A new classification of fixed assets has also been introduced. As far as disability is concerned, it was raised from PLN 9120 to PLN 10 080 - and thus a small difference - income per disabled person as regards the deduction of rehabilitation expenses. So it's so small... Tax exemptions have also been increased. Small business, quite important. The exemption has been waived, and this is also a novel, from the non-taxation of income from economic activities in the case of their intended use for agricultural activities. This thing, which had been in operation since January 1994, was intended to stimulate the development of agricultural activities. The government no longer cares about this. In conclusion, I will say that this is, as I said, an extremely extensive project. 5 minutes is definitely not enough to actually focus on at least a few proposals for solutions. There are a lot of changes, there are new taxes, but there are also such good ones, maybe small ones, but still amenities. So we're in favour of redirecting the project to committee work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u288	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals, print No 1878. In our view, the bill submitted after the entry into force will have a positive impact on the conditions of operation and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular those carried out in the form of individual activities and personal companies. Essentially, the ability to do so will be limited. aggressive tax optimization, which is currently mainly used by large operators. Thus, large companies will not be able to obtain an unjustified competitive advantage over other market participants. This will bring together the conditions of competitiveness for all companies operating on the Polish market. The bill is quite extensive and contains solutions that can be divided into six groups of rules. The most important issue regulated in the project is the sealing of the corporate income tax system, so as to ensure that the amount of tax paid, especially by large multinational corporations, is linked to the actual place where they earn their income. Studies are known to indicate that the so-called. Luxembourg optimization cost Poland PLN 20 billion per year. The subject of the European Parliament's proceedings in 2014 was the so-called scandal. tax optimisation by more than 340 large global companies, which could cost 27 other Member States as much as €150 billion per year. In order to prevent aggressive tax optimization, the proposed project provides for solutions such as the separation in the Corporate Income Tax Act of the source of income in the form of capital gains and the separation of income from other taxable income or the modification of provisions limiting interest deducted in the form of debt financing costs. In addition, the draft law introduces the required provisions governing the write-down of banks' reserves and write-downs to potential credit losses and to the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises, provisions aimed at facilitating business activities, including those which simplify and clarify current regulations. The Act will implement the announcements expressed in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło concerning the increase to 8 thousand. PLN of the tax-free amount will therefore no longer be subject to taxation of an amount below the minimum existence for a single household. It will be increased by 100% , up to PLN 85 528 per year, the limit for applying the rate of 50% the cost of obtaining revenue for creators and favourable provisions will be introduced to extend the titles of exemptions and deductions from income. Thus, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło implements the idea of social solidarity. It should be noted that for the proposed positive changes to the bill to prove sustainable, with a tendency to improve for the benefit of citizens and at the same time for the state budget, they need to be introduced gradually. Therefore, the suggestions made by the opposition Members showing that these solutions are not going too far are unjustified. I think it is important to act effectively, gradually reaching a level that can be implemented for the state budget. In addition, the draft law submitted also contains technical provisions enabling PIT taxpayers to submit electronic statements and notifications using designs announced by regulation and to adapt the provisions of the PIT and CIT Act to the new Classification of Durable Measures 2016. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle will strongly support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u290	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. You are the first question to be asked by Mr Jan Warrzecha, the Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The revision of tax legislation on the sealing of the corporate income tax system, as well as on the implementation of facilitations for small and medium-sized enterprises, is reasonable and necessary. Minister, I wanted to ask you: How is the bill being applied to ensure that large companies, in particular international companies, relate the amount of tax paid to their actual place of income? Can the contested law increase the amount of investment that boosts innovation, productivity and productivity of the Polish economy, and if so, by what regulatory mechanisms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u292	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First question. It has been more than a year since the adoption of amendments to the Income Tax Act concerning optimization. I have a request for an answer: How many tax optimization decisions have been issued by the Minister? What amounts have been recovered for those decisions issued by the Minister? I understand that you may not be prepared for today and therefore I ask you to answer the question in writing. And the question about commercial real estate: Where did the amount of 10 million come from, why not 5 million, compared to commercial real estate? Because nowhere: neither in the explanatory memorandum nor in the OSRs did I find any indication that from this amount of 5 million of the value of the building it would be necessary to pay this minimum income tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the difference between income tax and property tax would be explained by the professor, because this is where you're wrong. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u294	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Catherine Czochara, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u295	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to CUS data, most companies with foreign capital do not pay CIT tax in Poland. The European Commission's report on this issue is also frightening and not only for Poland. I am very pleased that the main purpose of the bill is to seal the corporate tax system in order to ensure that the amount paid by large companies, especially international, is linked to the actual place of income. Minister, I have a question: Does the Ministry have an estimate of the financial losses to which the Polish State's CIT tax budget is exposed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u296	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Lech Szbek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposal contains six groups of rules, two I have already mentioned in the club's speech, and the third important group is a group of rules aimed at facilitating business, in particular by small and medium-sized enterprises, including simplifying and clarifying the current regulations. The question is: Which of these entries do the Minister think is the most important and what will be the result? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u298	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project, which we are discussing, contains a lot of proposals for amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act, namely CIT, which concerns international companies. In my speech, I told you about the changes. My question is this: Isn't the government concerned about the outflow from our country of precisely these international companies, additionally tax-pressed? The second question concerns the tax on individuals, mainly the financial consequences for local government units, as PITs in total will be at a lower level and thus there will be a deficit. How will the loss of income be compensated in the case of local government units? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u300	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about a new tax, so-called. minimum income tax for taxable persons with commercial real estate of significant value. Taxpayers will be required to pay monthly taxes for this purpose and additional obligations in the tax return. I would like an example of what it means to be a minimum tax on one gallery. That's one thing. Secondly: Will this minimum tax at the same time represent the cost of obtaining revenue? And thirdly: What will be the consequences, what influence does the government expect from this very minimum income tax? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u302	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In that law, point 21 of Article is deleted. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 4e of the Act which exempts taxable persons from non-agricultural activities, including agricultural production, from tax. If they were, they were still meant to support agricultural activities. This was for the benefit of agricultural cooperatives and State Treasury companies and all legal entities producing agricultural products. It follows from the justification of the Act that this exemption resulted in the absence of tax on non-agricultural activities, since in the case of revenues from these activities increased by special agricultural production units above 40% revenue in general, this income was subject to full taxation. This is a bad change that will make all [[♪ The bell ♪]] legal entities, including State Treasury companies, carrying out minor non-agricultural services will pay monthly income tax on these activities. This is outrageous...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u304	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u305	...and restricting the exploitation of potential for development. You say you're not raising taxes, and yet it's obvious that you're raising taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u306	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think in the heat of these changes, the huge changes that are in this thick act, in this bill, you're missing your attention, and I'd like to come back... It is the same thing as the colleague said, about the deletion from the Corporate Income Tax Act in point 21 of the article. 17 point 4e, which exempts taxable persons from non-agricultural activities from tax. Minister, it will be a pity if you do not include this in the amendments for the entire agricultural world. It's been in operation for over 20 years. It's a test. After all, these non-agricultural services - this is an orca, this is sowing, this is the use of specialized machinery and equipment - these are services that these small farmers use. I think it's gonna be a brake on modern services, that it's gonna be a brake on development, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Brake when it comes to the use of excess power in connection with new machinery purchased. Minister, lean on this one more time. This is a bill... I don't want to use the words "bad change." It's not a good change.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u308	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u309	I think, after a long analysis, you'll come to the conclusion that we need to get out of this.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u310	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u311	That's all I'm asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u312	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a more specific question because I want to ask them on behalf of families where there are disabled children. Currently, a dependant taxpayer may deduct from his income expenses incurred for rehabilitation purposes of those persons if, in the tax year, income does not exceed 9120 PLN. This amount has not been valued for many years, so it is justified to raise it, and this is the case - 10 080 PLN. I would like to ask if child support will be included in the income of a dependent person. This is important to these families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u314	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u315	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the theory that commercial property tax is a income tax. So far, they've taught me that income tax is income tax, which is revenue minus costs. That's income. We read that this is income tax, in justification. In another place, it is said that this is a tax on income. But is that a income tax? It's about the initial value of the building. The initial value is not an income category at all. This is a category that is at least close to the property category. So I wanted to ask the Minister if you were a minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He really thinks it's income tax, as it says in the explanatory statement, or income tax. That's all I want to know. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Your questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Paweł Gruza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all your comments and - in this first part - statements on behalf of the clubs. I also noted the warm words about our project, specifically two. As to the questions: firstly, sealing the income tax system is not our fault. This is an international trend. We are involved in changing the perception of these problems by public opinion in individual countries, international public opinion, international institutions. These solutions are dedicated to our problems, present in the settlements of our great entrepreneurs and taxpayers. We see these specific problems and respond specifically to them through these, sometimes going beyond typical mechanisms, sealing methods. The question was whether these changes were compensated for by the privileges of the Act, whether they were linked to an innovative economy or pro-investment. Here I admit that apart from this bow, increasing the limit of one-off depreciation to 10,000, precisely in this law these elements are not present. These elements are in two other parallel projects on innovation and the universal investment relief that has been abstracted from special economic zones. These sealing elements will be mitigated and balanced by changes, only in other projects, paralleled by the government and the Sejm. Therefore, we have no concern about any negative impact on foreign investment. Nevertheless, we would like to say that this law really changes proportions and really changes financial flows in favour of the budget, and that we will not escape this conclusion. The fact is that certain ways of doing business in Poland will be burdened with a higher tax cost, and that is also in a sense the purpose of this law, therefore these regulations really change economic, financial relations. How many decisions were issued under a clause? Let me answer this question in writing. Where did the limit of 10 million value of the minimum tax on commercial real estate come from? This seems to be the limit below which aggressive tax optimisation simply does not have an economic justification. There was a question about an example. It can be assumed that a given commercial property costs, say, 100 million PLN. It seems that transactional valuations of this type of property suggest that this property brings 5% profitability, which, of course, amounts to PLN 5 million with the amount of PLN 100 million. 19% normal CIT on this profitability is the amount of PLN 1 million, while we propose a minimum tax of less than half of the classic CIT tax, which with the assumed profitability of 5% He should have performed. With regard to the consequences of the PIT changes for local government units, they are also positive, and therefore we have no concern that there is a loss for local authorities in this respect. With regard to the elimination of income relief from non-agricultural economic activities, of course, Parliament is the legislator, so we will obviously discuss these rules and we will lean on them, but I would point out that these specific provisions were also used illegally when under the heading of agricultural activities there was activity, I do not know, consultative, advisory and this has caused distortions of competition in this area. These rations will be presented in the course of further work, I hope, in the Seym. As regards disabled families and the inclusion of child support on this threshold, as I am informed, child support will not be included in this threshold. It's a design question. Is the minimum real estate tax Is it income tax or income tax or property tax? I would like to say that the classic tax theory goes to lameness and the complexity of economic life in the world makes individual countries and international organisations introduce unusual taxes, which is an example of France's recent initiative, which is precisely due to the problem of non-payment by IT corporations and the e-economy of income taxes. It is clearly said that this is a levy replacing income tax in this respect. Poland is in the avant-garde of these changes through the introduction of income tax calculated according to the assumed statistical profitability from the selected class of commercial real estate by enabling this tax to be charged on income tax traditionally calculated, which differs from other solutions known e.g. in the UK or in any other country where there is a kaster, where we are simply counting the property tax. It is paid and treated as a tax cost. We are going to make further concessions to the taxpayer because we treat this tax not as a tax cost, but as an element of the tax alone, i.e. its size or privilege is much, five times, more intense than in the case of classic property taxes, which entitles us to include this instrument in the Income Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u318	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[Parliamentary Club Law and Justice]] [[The explanatory memorandum states: The main purpose of the proposed law is to seal the corporate tax system in order to ensure that the amount paid by large companies, in particular international companies, is linked to the actual place of income. The proposed law is a further step towards the recovery of tax revenues, in particular CIT revenue. The direction of the changes adopted in the project is in line with the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy by 2020 (with a view to 2030) and adopted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2017. 84 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland - principles of tax justice and the universality of taxation in the field of business activities.]] [[Dear Minister, What revenue is estimated from the introduction of this amendment of the law? Will these measures already be in effect in 2018?]] The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporation tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, contained in print No. 1878, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax (Print No. 1879). Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Wiesław Janczyk, to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present a government bill amending the Retail Tax Act, contained in print No. 1879. The Act of 6 July 2016 introduced a new tax on retail sales into the Polish tax system. Its adoption was preceded by a broad public consultation and met with the acceptance of most traders. The purpose of introducing a new tax, in addition to increasing the tax revenue of the State budget, was to compensate for the budgetary damage resulting from the optimisation practices of large retailers in corporate income tax. However, by decision of 19 September 2016, the European Commission initiated a detailed investigation into our tax. The Commission was concerned that progressive revenue-based rates confer a selective advantage on low-income entrepreneurs over their competitors, in breach of EU State aid rules. At the same time, the European Commission issued an order requiring Poland to suspend the application of this tax until the Commission has completed its analysis. In order to avoid the negative financial consequences of the application of the Act in the event of a unfavourable settlement of the dispute with the European Commission, temporary arrangements were then taken. On 18 October 2016, the Minister for Development and Finance issued a regulation on the withdrawal of retail tax, covering the tax due from September to December of that year. The Act subsequently adopted by the Sejm on 15 November 2016 suspended the application of the Retail Tax Act until the end of 2017. We anticipated that the possibility of collecting tax under the rules laid down in the Retail Tax Act would be definitively resolved by that date. We were then in the process of making a complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union for the Commission's decision on the Polish retail tax, which was finally submitted by Poland on 30 November 2016. It therefore appeared that 31 December 2017 was a realistic deadline for the conclusion of the dispute as to the possibility of collecting the tax in question. On 30 June 2017, the European Commission issued a final decision on the Polish retail tax and decided, contrary to our expectations, that this tax infringes EU State aid rules. The Commission concluded that, thanks to progressive tax rates based on the size of the low turnover company's revenues, it had an advantage over its competitors. In the Commission's view, Poland did not demonstrate that the progressive tax rates were justified by the retail tax objective in terms of revenue increases or that companies at a higher rate would be more able to pay the tax. Poland disagrees with the European Commission's assessment of the Polish retail tax in the context of State aid rules. On 13 September 2017, therefore, an action was also brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union for a decision of the European Commission of 30 June 2017. There is a risk that Poland's complaints will not be recognised until the end of the period for suspending the application of the Retail Tax Act, i.e. until the end of 2017. It is therefore necessary to extend the suspension of its application for the following year. Without a ruling by the European Union court, the collection of retail tax under the rules laid down in the Retail Tax Act could put the State Treasury at risk of loss. The solutions proposed in the project will continue to suspend the application of the Retail Tax Act for 2018. As a result, this tax will only be levied on retail sales revenue achieved from 1 January 2019. We expect the court to decide within this time limit, which will allow for the collection of the suspended tax. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! By passing the bill to the High House for consideration, I hope that it will be accepted with understanding and that work on it will proceed smoothly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u320	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Stefan Strzłkowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a continuation, definitely a continuation of certain events that have already taken place. I am glad that measures have been taken to safeguard the interests of Poland in such a way that we do not expose ourselves to the return of the paid tribute, plus interest, of course, which would be a very important event, burdening quite heavily our budget. By force, the parliamentary club believes that this is a necessity at the moment, because we must bring the matter to an end, I think, and try to fight to bring this tribute back, because, let me remind you, this applies primarily to large and medium-sized players. The Minister, I think, has said everything here, as a parliamentary club, we feel very much the same, and we are wholeheartedly in favour of making this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u322	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u323	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not only do you suspend until 1 January 2019, but I'm sure you can guess, I would recommend that you eliminate this tax at all. We believe that an additional tax is paid not by anyone else, but as a consequence by citizens who purchase, in this case in larger shops, as my predecessor said, or medium-sized ones, will simply have to pay more. Where's the money coming from? In the end, it's always money from a client. So we're in favour of extending this, for suspension, and preferably for liquidation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u324	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the government's draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax, print No. 1879. The project concerns an extension for the entire year 2018 of the suspension of the retail tax law. Maybe I won't go into details anymore because we're repeating ourselves. The previous speakers have already talked about it, the Minister has explained very thoroughly what it looks like. In fact, on 30 June 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European The Commission has decided that this Polish tax violates EU legal principles - we do not agree with it - which must result in the suspension of the application of the law, i.e. it cannot, do not need to make declarations or obligations or pay this tax. That is why we take this project as a kind of formality and obviousness. We will, of course, be in favour of this amendment extending the suspension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u326	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask any more questions? If not, we have three people saved. You are the first question to be asked by Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The construction of the tax, as the Minister said, was consulted with Polish entrepreneurs and, in my opinion, a solution was developed which was the best possible. It actually showed that large players, who have the greatest power on the market, who have the ability to negotiate prices of goods, etc., are slightly more burdened with progressive tax, and our smallest companies are protected from high fiscalism. I have this question: Has the government really considered such a strategy to introduce tax until the Court has determined whether the tax is correct or incorrect? It would be like returning it later, but at this point on some sub-account, that money would be. Would that be possible? Because, in my opinion, this is really the solution, and it is necessary to introduce it as soon as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And were there any other jobs, or is there a plan B, if this tax does not actually enter? Are there any jobs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u329	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Any tax in addition to the fiscal function, the function which makes the budget run, also has certain market functions, in this case adapting the situation of individual operators to the competitive situation, creating a level playing field on the market. It seems that this tax would play a very important role if it could be introduced, because, in particular, as far as agricultural production is concerned, there is, on the other hand, no suitable partner in large-area stores who could talk with them, with these shops, with these networks as equals with equals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there therefore be any action to compensate for the differences in this bad market situation? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We were just discussing income tax, among others. with a minimum income tax on large commercial buildings, mainly commercial galleries. Although the Minister has not answered any of my three questions, my question now concerns the fact that this tax, the minimum income tax, is a substitute for retail tax, because it will be paid by merchant galleries. It's not the same tax, of course, but... I have a question: Wouldn't the introduction of retail tax be contrary to the functioning of the tax I am talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u332	Thank you very much, Member. The questions are answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There's literally a few questions. I would like to thank the clubs for their unanimity on the action that the government is applying today in relation to this tax structure, which is to extend the period of suspension of the effects of this law for 2018. I would just like to remind you that Mr Mateusz Morawiecki also informed the High House yesterday that, with regard to the revenue from this tax due to the plan already arising from the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the area of complaints to the TS EU and after the decision of the European Commission, it was anticipated that this suspension must be extended and that this revenue was not included in the draft budget presented at first reading yesterday to the High House as revenue of the state budget for the coming year. I can only remind you that they were originally estimated in the impact assessment for 2017 to amount to more than 1.2 billion, but this year they were supposed to be slightly higher and this year, 2018, for which the budget of the draft submitted by the government is being examined in the Sejm, was to be more than PLN 1.5 billion, but they were no longer written down due to the actions we are taking and due to the firm decision of the European Commission, which issued a final decision on this tribute. Now I'm gonna answer a few specific questions. The question is, couldn't we have taken it and assumed a positive outcome? First of all, we are responsible for downloading public-law danins and we want legal certainty, we do not want unclear situations, we do not want to limit turnover for companies. In a good state budget situation, there is no reason for that. At the same time, the need to pay interest on such accumulated money would be an additional item of costs, which could then be tested as breaking the discipline of public finances. There's no reason to use this practice. For this reason, we have not decided to make such a move after the decision to suspend this tax by the European Commission. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski's question. It actually lay here, on the table, from the very beginning, trying to introduce this tribute, for which there is no pattern in the current tax system of any European Union country, in such a way that it is a political decision. And since we are entering this pattern, Poland has boldly tried to develop such a model, we are sure that at least the countries of Central Europe would have entered into it, would have used such a model if it had been adopted without protesting the European Commission. And it was just a step in this direction, very expected, required. The government of Law and Justice with Prime Minister Beata Szydło has done everything in this regard to listen to the opinion of the public and industry, and has proposed not a large stakes, but two, let me remind you: 0,8 and 1,4 depending on revenue. In fact, this tribute would be subject to only over 100 entities. This was the element that we believe could even out some business opportunities and, as if it were to report on the use of economies of scale by large entities that actually have different potential and, for example, in advertising, reach a large group of customers, they could advertise the huge potential of their supply, product or sales assortment. Of course, as far as the range of food is concerned, this is more of a question for the Minister of Agriculture. I know he's done this kind of work. I wouldn't want to inform you about the extent of their progress. Our role here is rather to stimulate tax elements, which we have tried to take, and we are still in a phase where we do not give up in this dialogue, but we are acting consistently. Ms Zofia Czernow's question. I now recognize here two - one law and one project, which you have just discussed Minister Gruza. It drew attention to certain common features concerning whether the ideas for the taxation of galleries are another edition of the attempt to impose a tax on large-scale retailers. I can only point out that the tax, which was discussed in the previous point in the plenary room, is not aimed only at shopping galleries, but is also aimed at large office buildings, for large facilities, so it is difficult to have a clear association here. He has a completely different structure, although we are also dealing with a certain scale of capital commitment of the owners of these facilities. That's a significant scale. And in this sense, a project is being created which aims to eliminate certain tax optimizations and to use certain ideas in Poland to generate business revenue without feeling obliged to pay taxes in our country. That is all I can say here, answering the question of the Member. I think this association is legitimate, but for us it is a completely separate sphere of action and ideas which the Ministry of Finance presents to the High House in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u334	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u335	High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! I present on behalf of the club a position towards the government draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax, print No 1879. In fact, we should start by asking: Why doesn't the government postpone this tax ad Kalendas Graecas? Only the PiS government can be so incompetent as to charge consumers with one and the same tax for the third year in a row. Do you really want this tax to be included once again in the price of products sold in hypermarkets? For the first time, stores discounted this tax in 2016. Is inflation of 4% in the so-called. A shopping cart isn't enough for you? Do you want to increase the cost of young pensioners who are about to be affected by starvation pensions? How many times do you have to say that business tax is always passed on to a customer? That's what happened to the bank tax, all those who have accounts and use payment cards, they felt it, and car owners pay 50% extra. more for OC, in some cases several hundred percent, because you also paid this tax to insurers. It doesn't take much imagination to figure out that stores in 2018 will want to discount ahead of time a possible tax that hangs over them like a whip and is about to hit them in 2019. Really, trade tax is a model example of financial management by the PiS: the budget did not earn and people lost. Yesterday one of the Members of the PiS said that there is no longer a state committee in Poland regulating prices. Well, there isn't, but there is inflation, Mr. President, which is growing in an uncontrollable way, as the government is incompetent, and you are on your way to such a scenario. The Civic Platform is against this tax, but the way you withdraw it is far from normal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u336	I present the position of the Poselski Kukiz Club15 vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Retail Tax Act, which concerns the extension of the suspension of the retail tax Act until the end of 2018. The provisions of the Act, which apply to revenues from retail sales, are to apply from revenues achieved from 1 January 2019. The provisions of the Act entered into force on 1 September 2016. The European Commission initiated a detailed investigation into the Polish retail tax, i.e. the impact on competition between sales entities on the Polish market. Poland has undertaken to suspend the application of this tax until the Commission has completed its analysis. The Retail Tax Act raised doubts, in particular as regards the formula for the application of turnover tax on sales in the context of conditions of equal opportunities for market competition. Club Kukiz'15 made a lot of comments on the bill. Retail sale under the law is the exercise in the territory of the Republic of Poland, within the context of the business of the seller, of the sale of goods to consumers, and the retailer is a natural person, a legal person, a civil company and an organizational unit which does not have a legal personality selling the goods to the consumer. Purchases from an intermediary in the sale of goods, e.g. An agent or a police officer is also to be taxed. The retail tax represents the cost of obtaining income in personal income tax and corporate income tax. The retail tax obligation applies to retailers who achieve revenue in a given month exceeding PLN 17 million. Income above this amount is to be taxed. The amount of the tax is to depend on the entity's monthly turnover: -0.8% for revenue up to PLN 170 million, - 1.4% for surplus income over PLN 170 million. The Ministry of Finance itself pointed out: With such a structure defining a taxpayer, a company with a high income in order to bypass the retail tax or lower its rate may attempt to divide into several smaller entities. And we're already dealing with that fact. Further, according to the opinion of the Ministry: The entry into force of the new public service tax, which is the retail tax, may result in a search for the possibility of optimization by taxpayers, which may be manifested inter alia. development of online trade as not regulated by law or legal separation of retail entities. The tax on retail sales will not be included in the revenue generated from sales made on the basis of a distance contract, i.e. via the Internet. The solutions finally adopted in the Act do not provide for taxation of franchise networks. The fact is that the introduction of the so-called. turnover tax for online commerce will affect the formal side of sales. Foreign companies - other than those registered in Poland - will offer their products from outside Poland without transferring their warehouse and logistics facilities. In conclusion, it is expected that when the law is suspended, this situation will affect the transfer of place of business abroad. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 is in favour of extending the suspension of the retail tax law until real concerns about the possible reduction of revenue from the tax on goods and services and income taxes as a result of the application of that law are resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u337	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax. This project extends the period of suspension of the retail tax law for 2018. As the applicants point out, in view of the recognition by the European Commission that this tribute, by increasing the competitiveness of smaller enterprises, infringes EU State aid rules, it is necessary to suspend its introduction. The retail tax was to apply in Poland from September 2016. It was to be covered by entrepreneurs whose monthly turnover exceeds 17 million PLN. Unfortunately, due to the European Commission's proceedings and its decision, the introduction of this tax is increasing. We do not agree with the Commission's decision, which is why I am pleased that our country is taking further steps. I hope that Poland's complaints to the Court of Justice of the European Union will defend our right, will be positively considered and the European Commission's allegations will be overturned. However, for obvious reasons, near Free and Solidarnia will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u338	The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the bill. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at second reading? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud (print No 1880). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a bill dedicated to tax fraud, in particular VAT fraud. The project counters this pathology, builds on the side of the tax administration the potential, tools and resources of data that will prevent the flow of money from these crimes abroad. Despite the follow-up of the checks and the identification of the tax offence, this exit is irretrievably depriving us of our chances of recovering lost public finances. The Act creates a system for the exchange of information between the banking sector and the tax administration, which allows the tax administration to carry out analyses of financial flows so that, through appropriate mechanisms, the analysis of the financial flows themselves, as well as data from other sources and databases of the Ministry of Finance, identify such flows which are symptomatic for tax fraud, identify them and react in advance. STIR, i.e. the IT system of the clearing house, is intended to enable the National Tax Administration to provide relevant data for timely responses. On the other hand, the Act allows the banking system itself to carry out analyses that aim to clear the system of bank accounts from bank accounts established by the so-called "bank accounts." poles, i.e. fictitiously created entities, only for the purpose of carrying out a tax offence. Therefore, already in the first stage of preparation for fiscal crime, these preparations will be hindered. The Act also provides for the publication and full transparency of entities deleted from the list of active VAT taxable persons, so that each trader is able to verify whether his counterparty is currently not deleted from the VAT list and, on the other hand, if the trader has previously been deleted from the VAT list, it will be a symptom to increase his diligence or to increase his caution on the part of the trader in carrying out transactions with this type of entity. The STIR system or just this act creating the STIR system is a key element of sealing the tax system outside the invoice register, which will enter from 1 January next year outside the split payment mechanism, which is to enter from 1 April. The STIR system complements these sealing instruments because no single system or single seal design is fully functional and efficient and the state must seek parallel complementary instruments to eliminate VAT fraud pathology. This is an outline of the STIR project. Its basic functional layer is the technical provisions on how to prepare, collect, transmit and process information at two levels, both in the clearing house and on the state side in state systems. Another group of rules concerns the possibility of blocking transactions or financial flows that have potential here and where there is a risk of non-returning money flow abroad. Of course, the rules on blocking these flows are mitigated with appropriate appeal possibilities. The third group of regulations, of course, creates the appropriate supervision of the head of the KAS over the entire information exchange process. And, of course, we have a group of rules that allow the finance minister to publish a list of deleted entities. So that this is from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance one of the key laws leading to the sealing of the system and the execution of the assumed budget revenue for this purpose next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u340	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Iwona Michalek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present a position on the Act amending the laws in order to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud, print No 1880. The main objective of this draft law is to reduce the VAT gap caused by fraud. The project introduces a system that eliminates the economic turnover of businesses that deceive honest entrepreneurs and thus strengthens the security of VAT taxpayers in the economic trade. The project will translate into improved business conditions for all taxpayers by restoring fair competition on the market. The simplification to the VAT gap consists of the value of fraud and the shortage caused by non-notified sales, so-called "tax." It's a gray area. The value of fraud represents a real loss of the VAT budget in the form of amounts reimbursed for artificial transactions called carousel transactions. The only purpose of these transactions is to request unjustified VAT refunds. Carousel transactions are organised by criminal groups and involve committing a number of fiscal and criminal offences. There are different methodologies for calculating the value of VAT fraud. It is certainly possible to determine its lower value. It currently amounts to not less than PLN 10 billion per year. According to the figures of the tax services for the years 2015 and 2016, the amount of VAT fraud identified by these services amounted to almost PLN 20 billion, but this amount only reflects the scale of identified and documented fraud. Therefore, it can be assumed that the actual scale of fraud is much larger. The VAT gap is largely due to organised criminal groups, which deliberately exploit legislative shortcomings or the weakness of law enforcement by law enforcement and justice. The effects of the tax gap, among others, The loss of revenue of the State Treasury, which is a consequence of tax fraud in relation to VAT, is borne by all citizens of the Republic of Poland. There is no doubt about the need to urgently and decisively counter the use of the financial sector for tax fraud. The expected impact of the project is to increase the activity of banks and cooperative savings and credit banks in the area of risk analysis of the use of their systems for illegal activities, in particular VAT fraud, the sealing of the tax system, the reduction of the grey and black zone, the deletion from the VAT registers of entities whose main purpose is to fake business activities in order to extort VAT returns, to identify others outside tax areas at risk of committing financial crimes, to increase cooperation with other countries in the fight against cross-border crime, including organised crime, and, of course, to prevent money laundering. This is a very necessary law, one of the most important, in my opinion, legislation, which seals the banking, tax system. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the draft submitted and proposes that it be further examined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u342	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, it is my pleasure to present the position of my club in relation to this project. We already know what the essence of the 1880 print project is, we know it's the IT system of the clearing house. We also know that the goal is commendable and certainly supported by all parliamentary clubs. The question remains whether even the highest purpose sanctifies all means. In this project, the Minister of Finance obliges banks to provide the National Settlement Chamber with data allowing for the identification of the trader - address, REGON, account number, not later than 24 hours notification of any changes, and thus open, closed accounts and, as I understand, all financial flows, and the head of the KAS authorizes you to block the suspect account for 72 hours. And my first doubt is this. In the light of recent reports of the Director of the Tomas Dragon of the Tax Selection Department, the question remains open: Who will have access to this data? Will this data not become the prey of dishonest persons? Because we are dealing not only with breach of banking secrecy, but also with business secrets, business secrets. This is also the question expressed by entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice did not fulfil its basic obligation - you did not consult with entrepreneurs. That is why the Civic Platform's shadow office did this for you and we have asked for this opinion from business circles. I will mention the doubts and concerns of this environment. The proposed law carries risks associated with the possibility of applying a bank account lock in a bank or SKOK not only a taxpayer, an informed participant in tax fraud, but also a taxpayer who is unaware of this participation, acting in good faith and with due diligence. The same treatment of fraudsters and unaware frauds of participants in transactions should be considered inadmissible. The reasons for the use of bank blocking should be precisely indicated in the provision, which will enable judicial administrative control of the activities of tax authorities. Indeed, the conditions of this blockade in the Act are unclear. I hope that, in the course of the Parliament's work, we will develop solutions to ensure that fair taxpayers are able to ensure the safety of trade. I also hope that the Minister will address these concerns of the business community. The Minister spoke about the need for complementary action, we agree. Besides, the Minister certainly knows that such complementary solutions were in place in the report submitted to the State, and there were many of these solutions. Besides, you admitted that sealing the tax system, contrary to what your superior, Minister Morawiecki, says at every moment and in every speech... You know perfectly well that these actions have been initiated by the Civic Platform. I have a question for you. Does the Minister believe that the solutions introduced by this law will complement the central register and the invoice register? Did you leave behind the idea that we left you as a system solution that you even called a special purpose company outside the Ministry of Finance, Critical Applications? I'd like the Minister to take this into account. Of course, the Civic Platform supports this project, like all projects sealing the tax system, but we will always ensure that an honest taxpayer, an entrepreneur, is not the target of an overly obstructive fiscal attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u344	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u345	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club on printing no. 1880, this is a government bill amending laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud. As a result of the proposed changes... As a result of the entry into force of this law, the National Tax Administration is to be able to analyse the data of the financial sector from banks, but also SKOKs, in order to analyze risks and prevent the use of banks and other financial entities for tax fraud and tax fraud. Moreover, such cooperation is supposed to already exist, but between other actors, between financial entities and the general inspector of financial information on the Anti-Money Laundering Act. And in fact, while certain data are transmitted, the effectiveness, time of analysis and efficiency of this analysis often leave much to be desired, which is probably the reason why some criminals have never succeeded, and in fact more maybe their money, never managed to stop. There is no denying that the whole scope of the law and its subjective scope raises some doubts because the information provided would also concern quite important data from the point of view of data traders, data currently covered by secrecy, both banking secrecy and commercial secrecy. This may give rise to great doubts about who, by processing these data, will analyse these data, in what area and how broad the data will have an unanonymised way. Indeed, this may give rise to the risk of leaking information, especially in recent arrests, doubts about people's intentions for office workers, often even at high levels; this may raise such doubts. In addition, the Act is to introduce an obligation to disclose a list of entities deleted from the VAT register in order to make available information on active VAT taxable persons to all traders in order to prevent them from accepting an invoice issued by an entity not registered as a VAT taxable person. In this respect, the law was also imperfect, and in practice it was so that often the entrepreneur, who is not guilty of anything, who is legally acting and pays taxes on a daily basis, was the victim of his ignorance, his lack of time checking or the lack of complete information about the fact that he is trading with an entrepreneur who has illegible and ill-intentioned intentions. Its aim is to avoid taxation or even extortion of VAT. As a result, under joint responsibility, all responsibility fell on him, because the chief offender and culprit was already elusive, and his accounts and bank accounts were empty. We have already mentioned this in the recent VAT amendment that punishing people, third parties who often act legally outside the grey zone is too often harmful. Such interpretational doubts appear quite often under this law. The conflict with the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, the possibility of abuse of rights and use of data for purposes contrary to the law exists, while the Modern Club, of course, as always in the case of laws which are directed towards the fight against financial and economic crime, is in favour of directing this project to committee and undertaking further work, among others. dispersal of these interpretational doubts [[♪ The bell ♪]] or to make appropriate changes to safeguard the interests of legally functioning, active enterprises as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u346	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u347	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to express my position on the project from print no. 1880. The proposed project is quite extensive due to its scope of impact, brings changes and regulations to a very large number of provisions of the applicable law. The need for these changes is due to the existence of tax fraud, particularly in the tax on goods and services, using banks and SKOKs, the possibility of a rapid flow of funds and the possibility of them being carried out, i.e. tax fraud. The matter of this bill is quite difficult and complicated also due to the protection of personal data, banking and fiscal secrecy, as well as the need to comply with the constitution. You have already expressed doubts about this. However, VAT fraud is a fact and its size results from numerous reports analysing the situation in this area. Depending on the source, the value of VAT fraud in Poland is estimated at PLN 10 and this figure corresponds to the average in the European Union. Currently, the importance of electronic transactions is increasing. The area of these transactions is also in the interest of crime, especially organised crime. Electronic transactions also pose risks to the public sector by using banking systems even to legitimise activities that are actually intended only to extort tax. The proposal proposes that the identification of risks be based more than previously on an analysis of the risk of using bank accounts and SKOKs for purposes related to tax offences, in particular VAT, and other related offences, e.g. by issuing empty invoices. The project involves an analysis by the Head of National Tax Administration of the risk of using banks or SKOKs to commit tax offences. The risk analysis will be carried out taking into account the risk ratio established by the clearing house in its electronic system, called STIR. In the current state of technical, information and social development, the analysis of financial flows is one of the most important methods for identifying risks. In VAT carousels for VAT refunds, transfers of funds through subsequent accounts are most often carried out using the banking system. Thus, the project provides for the head of the National Tax Administration to carry out analyses of the risk of using banks for extortion purposes, to automatically establish in STIR a risk indicator for the use of banks, to require banks and cooperative credit and savings banks to report data to STIR, including those that constitute bank secrecy or professional secrecy respectively, in order to establish a risk indicator, to provide information by the clearing house on the risk indicator to the head of the National Tax Administration, as well as to banks and SKOKs for the purpose of carrying out certain obligations, inter alia. resulting from the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, electronically keeping lists of entities which have not been registered as VAT payers or have been removed from the register ex officio without having to be notified of this or have been reinstated as VAT taxpayers. The so-called VAT fraud is often used in criminal cases. A vanishing taxpayer. In such situations, it is crucial to take immediate action to secure the means to be used to pay the tax due. It's a project, as I emphasized, very extensive. Other countries at European Union level also address similar issues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the costs of these solutions are quite high, but this may already be in a series of questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u348	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u349	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud, print No 1880. The most important objective pursued by this draft law is to reduce the VAT gap caused by fraud. The project will lead to a significant sealing of the VAT system through an analysis of the financial flows that occur in the setting up of bank accounts by various entities, including those aimed at extortion of VAT, without adversely affecting the operation of a fair business. There is no doubt about the need to urgently and decisively counter the use of the broadly understood financial sector for tax fraud, in particular VAT and other related offences, e.g. consisting in displaying the so-called "exhibition." empty invoices. The fight against this problem has been going on for many years, but for various reasons its effectiveness is not sufficient, as confirmed by, among other things. NIK report on empty invoices. In 2016, VAT revenues amounted to PLN 127 billion, this year they can reach up to PLN 150 billion. In 2015 and 2016, the tax control stated a reduction in budget revenue by about PLN 19.8 billion as a result of VAT fraud. One of the popular mechanisms for VAT fraud is so-called. tax carousels. They rely on the fact that the goods in a series of transactions are circulating many times between often fictional companies, and each time a disappearing taxable person is involved in the transaction, who charges VAT but does not pay it to the tax office. In such situations, it is important to take rapid action to secure the means to be used to pay the tax due. In order to end this criminal activity, two solutions have been proposed in the draft law: the mechanism for blocking the account at the request of the head of the National Tax Administration - measures secured in this way will be released if the tax due resulting from the invoices issued is paid - and the refusal to register and the removal from office of the entity as a VAT taxable person without the need to notify that entity. As technology develops, the role of banks is increasing as the number and importance of non-cash transactions, including by electronic means, is increasing. Currently, financial systems allow for rapid financial transfers of significant amounts, which can be used to create appearances of doing business. These circumstances are used by organised criminal groups to commit tax offences and then to legalize the money unduly obtained, so-called. money laundering. This increases the role and importance of risk analyses on the basis of data obtained from the banking sector, including cooperative savings and credit banks. The proposal proposes that the identification of risks in both sectors should be based more than previously on an analysis of the risk of using banking systems for purposes related to fiscal offences against tax obligations. The risk analysis will be carried out by the head of the National Tax Administration, which will use two tools for this purpose: own analysis carried out by the office of the head of the KAS and its subordinate entities based on data from banks and SKOKs and data from tax returns and other publicly available sources and analysis prepared by the clearing house, which will establish in its electronic system called STIR a risk indicator based on data from banks and SKOKs and other publicly available data. In addition, the project provides for a number of other mechanisms, including: providing information by the clearing house on the risk ratio of the head of the KAS, providing information by the Board on the risk ratio of banks and SKOKs in order to comply with the obligations under the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, etc. It should be considered that the proposed law provides the basis for a more effective defence of the fiscal interests of the State, so that the State Treasury's tax claims will be better protected against fraud, which in the last 10 years have been at a level of up to PLN 40 billion per year. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle will strongly support this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u350	Thank you very much. Members joined the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? You're welcome to do it. I'm closing the list. First - Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u351	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true, as he claims in his opinion on the draft law of the Legislative Council at the President of the Council of Ministers, that the adoption of a decision to block an entrepreneur's account is an interference in the freedom of business, art. 22 constitutions, and property rights, art. 64 constitutions? An account lock restricting the entrepreneur's ability to use his capital is also an interference with the basic content of ownership rights. Is it true, Minister, that the Act assumes full freedom on the part of the public authority in taking measures that deeply interfere with the situation of the entrepreneur? I am referring here to the decision of the head of the National Tax Administration to block an entrepreneur's account on the basis of not entirely clear and classified criteria with which the entrepreneur cannot get acquainted. And more questions. How many additional posts within the National Tax Administration structure will this bill generate? What's the annual cost? How many additional posts will be due to cancellations from entrepreneurs [[♪ The bell ♪]] necessary for the establishment of administrative courts in the Voivodship and the Supreme Administrative Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u352	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. There is no Member. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u353	I still have a question because the cost of introducing this whole system is relatively high. I would like to ask: Who will cover the costs that are on the side of the banking system? The Polish Bank Association estimated the entire cost of this system for cooperative banks and their associations, i.e. those small banks, at 3,200 thousand. PLN and the annual cost of maintaining the changes to around 625 thousand. zł. For SKOKs, this is the amount of approx. PLN 1 million, and for other banks - PLN 15.20 million, i.e. quite small amounts. The National Settlement Chamber estimates that the annual costs of STIR, i.e. depreciation of investments and maintenance costs, will amount to about PLN 3.5 million. I would like to ask: How would banks and SKOKs be financed? Will they really bear these costs? It's kind of unbelievable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'm talking about finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u354	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u355	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! VAT is a tax which favours tax carousels, as it leaves virtually no trace on any turnover of this carousel. However, the damage caused by this type of carousel does not only concern the state budget but also affects counterparties, especially the latter, often consumers of the product concerned. And there's a huge threat here, too. How are these actions going to help those final contractors who have often been victims of these carousels? The second question concerns the law of the European Union, which very often concerns all such cross-border transactions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does this law help to combat these tax carousels? Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u356	Thank you very much. You're welcome. The last question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u357	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like you to explain this situation: the head of the KAS is blocking a suspicious account for 72 hours, but it turns out that this time is too short to explain whether this blocking had real grounds or not. And what happens then? What are you doing? It's been 72 hours. So I'm asking you to answer that question. And I will repeat this which I asked in my speech: Does the Minister think that these two tools, i.e. the central register of invoices and STIR, are needed, whether this will be in some sense duplicate, not it will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] unnecessary budget costs? If this central invoice register existed, functioned, functional, would this STIR be needed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u358	Thank you very much. I ask that the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Paweł Gruza, answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking. As regards the question of the appropriateness of such drastic measures - I agree that the measures provided for by this law are drastic - I would like to say that they are adequate to the situation we are dealing with, and they are adequate to the challenges which are related to fraud and to the operational efficiency of fraudsters achieved over many years of improving these techniques and to the means that these criminal groups have at their disposal, yes? So they often have much more efficient teams, more computerized, faster internationally than the tax administration, which, for example, encounters difficulties in communicating with other tax administrations, because this EU information exchange system is not optimal or far from optimal or adequate to the rate of economic turnover used by criminal groups. So this project is hitting this asymmetry by building a symmetrical tool for both data processing and blocking instruments in a situation where we are sure that there is extortion. I am therefore convinced that this is an appropriate tool, proportionate to the challenges we currently have. As regards the consultation layer, the project was consulted, we have many comments from entrepreneurs and business organisations, and NGOs, which deal with information from the citizen. The project was probably presented three times in the RCL and we have these comments. Of course, there is also room in the Sejm to listen to these voices and to modify the project accordingly. As for the reports of the Civic Platform left in the Ministry's drawers, I will admit that I have not read these reports or intend to read them. I read the reports when it developed between 2006 and 2007. The most important report was in 2010 and practically nothing new has been invented since 2010. I know the authors of the reports of the Civic Platform for many years, I know their views and I know what can be expected from the content of these reports. [[But you're doing what's in those reports, so I don't understand.]] I don't want to enter into dialogue, but these things don't require reporting, because the reports were prepared 10 years ago. Government isn't about ordering reports because either you know what you're doing or you order reports. And that's the fundamental difference. As regards access to data within the tax administration, it is clear that we attach great importance to the security of private data of citizens and entrepreneurs... [[And that's why Thomas S. was the principal.]] ...and this access is limited to central analytical functions. Only the result of the analysis is distributed further within the tax administration, there is no general access of a serial official to the transfer data. I'd like to rule that out. If the law needs to be clarified in this respect, it should, of course, be clarified, but it has never been our intention that a private tax administration worker should have universal access to data on transfers of taxable persons under his supervision. We are therefore not afraid of this charge. With regard to the question of whether the interference of blocking funds on the bank account is an interference with the right of ownership of the entrepreneur and the citizen, the answer is: of course, yes. This is the most drastic of possible interferences that can be imagined, apart from the execution from the bank account, and we believe that this instrument is proportionate to the intended effects of this law. As far as jobs are concerned, we have 95 analytical posts planned for the tax administration. As far as the courts are concerned, a dozen or so jobs are planned. It seems to me that these analytical posts are something that is absolutely necessary for these services to be professionalized for a long time. As far as costs for the financial sector are concerned, it must be said here that clearing the banking system from these poles accounts and clearing the banking system from this pathology is to the great benefit of the banking sector not counting in millions of zlotys of implementation costs, only in much larger amounts, thanks to which banks can save on lending activities that seemingly seem fair and ultimately turns out to be a crime, loans disappear. It has often been the case that the carousels were also financed by the financial sector, so it can be said that both in the economy and in the banking sector itself, the security of trade will increase. And this will compensate for any costs associated with the implementation of these new solutions. As far as the cooperative banking sector is concerned, we are in a dialogue, there is no one here, I think, any threat. The cooperative banks sector will be adequately addressed with other solutions, so I think there will be no problem here. However, the cooperative banking sector faces a challenge of more efficient IT management, because the smaller scale of banking characteristic of the cooperative banking sector is simply inefficient and obsolete on several separate IT systems. The cooperative sector needs to be helped to take this bold step forward so that the cooperative sector deals best with what it does, i.e. lending local entrepreneurship, not modifying information systems, which will only deepen, because these are not only national requirements, but the directives are changing in this respect and these IT changes will only come. And not just because of our decisions, it's just the way it is. Therefore, the operation of this smaller banking activity on separate IT systems is simply ineffective and can be improved, and we are also in dialogue with the sector in order to improve this. How will this mechanism help honest taxpayers? The main element of this system is that there will be a faster elimination of those involved, which is intended to increase the safety of trading throughout the economy. And an honest trader will simply, after sealing the VAT system, have a much easier and safer contract with tenderers he does not know and we will facilitate business activity in this sense. [[But the Member left, so I don't think he wanted to hear it.]] As far as the locking mechanism is concerned, it is quite complex and based on risk analysis. We estimate that this type of blockage will be several hundred throughout the year. I assure you that each of these blockades will be based on an analysis of both the STIR data, the central invoice register and other databases of the Ministry of Finance. It will be done in the preparatory phase automatically. Any decision to block shall be taken under the responsibility of the relevant official after manual checking. This system is designed to improve the efficiency and efficiency of the blockades, so that these locks, where today there is a smaller source resource causing the lock decision, are better hit. In fact, we believe that this system will lead to more efficiency and fewer errors, which, of course, have to occur statistically with today's mass of cases. Of course, we write laws on appeal because we do not assume full, 100% correctness of the decision. Unfortunately, this is never the case, of course. After 72 hours on the basis of other conditions, more qualified, we can extend this blockade for a further period. At each stage we guarantee an appeal with a very short time of reaction of the courts counted in days, which will secure, we hope, the interest of the taxpayer. Nevertheless, I believe that the integration of the Central Register of Invoices system, STIR, will result in a high precision of these blockades. Is the system needed? Let me put it this way: this kind of system would not have been necessary if we had introduced as a country, at least those safeguards that our neighbouring countries, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, introduced 5 and 6 years ago. I agree that this system would be unnecessary. In this situation where we are, this system is needed. The costs of its implementation on both the banking and administration side are promil compared to the scale and scale of the problem. It therefore appears that this idea is highly justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u360	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Personally, I am very pleased that the government has submitted a draft law on amending laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud. Entrepreneurs came to my parliamentary office who pointed out the legislative shortcomings used by dishonest entities for tax fraud in relation to VAT, including fraud, i.e. unjustified refunds, estimated in Poland at at at least PLN 10 and 15 billion. An important problem is the lack of effective barriers to the use of banking systems for tax fraud purposes. Risk analysis on financial flows will be a key element in the fight against this. Thus, the system will be able to detect VAT carousels for extortion, for example. amounts of money repeatedly changing owners in the short term. My question. The system will be based on obtaining information from banks. Is our banking system ready to transfer the information needed and how long would it take to implement the proposed solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u362	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on amending the laws to prevent the use of the financial sector for tax fraud, contained in print No 1881, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Parliament's and the Immunity Offices on the application of the private prosecutor Marcin Kierwiński of 10 July 2017 to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Dominik Tarczyński (print No 1859). I would like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity, I have the honour to present a report on the application of Mr Marcin Kierwiński's private prosecutor of 10 July 2017 to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Dominik Tarczyński. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, submitted a request to the Rules of Procedure Committee on 10 August 2017. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Commission, having considered this request at its meeting on 27 September 2017, pursuant to the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, shall submit a proposal for the adoption of the application of the private prosecutor Marcin Kierwiński of 10 July to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Dominik Tarczyński. I would like to remind you that the issue we are talking about today, whether the request for the waiver of formal immunity is related to the fact that on 17 and 21 May 2017 on the Polish Television air, Mr Dominik Tarczyński requested an answer from Mr Marcin Kierwiński to the question whether his interest in the tender on helicopters is due to the fact that he worked for Airbus and whether he is in contact with the employees of this company. The same questions later were repeated on Twitter. Therefore, a request has been made for the waiver of immunity because the Member considers that his personal interests have been violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u364	Thank you very much, sir. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 11 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Simon Giżyński, First Member, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Stefan Niesiołowski, comparing one of the Members of the jellyfish recently, risks someone putting together his or her or Niesiołowski, with a jamochłon, using its mouth hole also for excretion purposes, or with an ostrich whose eye is bigger than the brain. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u366	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. There isn't. Katarzyna Czochara made a written statement. Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. In that case, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u367	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Sandomierskie Collegium Gostomianum is one of the oldest and most prestigious Polish high schools. Its beginning dates back to 1602, hence on the last Saturday, 6 October 2017, the celebrations of the 415th anniversary of the school connected with the 10th anniversary of its graduates took place. It was attended by nearly 500 people from all over Poland, but also from many other countries around the world. The Collegium Gostomianum was founded as a Jesuit school, and its name is due to the founder, who was the Poznań Voivode and at the same time the castle of the Sandomierz Hieronim Gostomski coat of arms Nałęcz. It was thanks to him that a large monastery team was erected in the years 1602-1615, consisting of two wings: the eastern one, intended for the school, and the southern one, containing the monastery clausz. After several years, the monastery became a very dynamic educational and economic center. The Jesuit college here had a rich library, a school theater functioned, and the monastery vineyards functioned splendidly. However, the development of the school stopped the Swedish flood, during which both the college and Sandomierz were badly destroyed. It took years to rebuild the school because of lack of resources. Despite this, the school printing house was opened in 1712 and by 1774, it had issued as many as 167 items. After the Order's cassation in 1773, the monastery went to the Board of the National Education Commission. The preserved east wing was constantly occupied by the school, while the south, destroyed by fire in 1813, despite several attempts to adapt, fell into ruin. During World War II, the building of the Collegium Gostomianum was occupied for military purposes, and after the war until 1986 there was the First General High School. However, the poor technical condition of the building caused that the study was held in another place at ul. The carpenters. In September 2001, the high school returned to its headquarters after several years of renovation. A year later, a gym was put into service, located in a partially reconstructed south wing. Today, the building of the Collegium Gostomianum is one of Sandomierz's most valuable monuments, and it is a great dominant feature in the panorama of the city from the Vistula side. The Sandomierz Collegium Gostomianum boasts many outstanding graduates. You can't name them all, so I'm just gonna limit myself to a few names. They graduated from the school, among others. General Franciszek Kaminski, Chief Battalion Commander, Minister Adam Bień, Deputy Government Delegate to the country, sentenced in the 16th trial in Moscow, b. Fr. kmdr propor. Władysław Miegoń, Aleksander Patkowski, father of Polish regionalism, Mieczysław Frenkiel, outstanding actor, famous for his role as a molester, as well as prof. Adam Myjak, outstanding sculptor, Wiesław Myśliwski, writer, Prof. Andrzej Schinzel, outstanding mathematician specializing in the theory of numbers, and numerous groups of prominent priests, among whom I will mention only the dead. bp. Mariana Zimalka. High Izbo! I'm glad to be able to take part again in both the reunion and the prom. This was due to the great kindness of the 1980 seniors who accepted me as an honorary graduate. It was in 1980 that my wife graduated from the Collegium Gostomianum and her friendships not only survived the test of time and distance, but also became my share. My fellow Members, dear friends, thank you very much for this. On the occasion of the anniversary of the 415-year anniversary of the school, I would like to pay my respects and congratulations to the employees of the Collegium Gostomianum, headed by Director Krzysztof Zieliński. It is thanks to your work that students achieve such excellent results, and the school occupies high places in rankings. For the years to come, I wish you many further successes and joys and pride in working in such a wonderful facility. Let the words of the school anthem always sound strong: You walls of the ancient school, you white for many years/ Release the young falcons, let them fly into the new world/Collegium, Collegium [[♪ The bell ♪]] You with the story were for Mr. Brother Collegium, Collegium You're a Polish flower. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u368	Thank you very much, sir. And I am sorry, because Catherine Czochara has not made a written statement, she is simply absent. Now Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u369	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! People of Krosnieński County on Lubuskie land! I wouldn't have been myself if I hadn't stood before you today with this statement, because the circumstances are at least extraordinary and certainly very satisfying for me and for the residents of the county. At the very beginning, I would like to thank Prime Minister Beata Szydło, whose decision was transferred today to the district hospital in Krosno Odrzański. zł from the budget reserve. Of course, the fathers and mothers of this success will be without a doubt now, but let them put their breasts out there after the decorations, for me it is important that my fight for this hospital has been completed today too. A few years back, as Chairman of the Krośnieński County Council, I pointed to a pathological form of agreement with the hospital company. For my efforts, I was punished with a penalty of $10,000. zł, because I was talking about thieving commercialization and smart guys from PO and PSL who legalized this dysfunction. Today, as a Member, I feel satisfied. During the work of the Parliamentary Group on Privatized Hospitals we held numerous meetings and met with the Minister of Health, the President of the National Health Fund, and this, it seems, effectively involved them in the fight for the hospital of Krosnień County. Mr. Robert Paluch joined us as well, which resulted. I'm going to mention that you, the people of the county, should be aware of that. The key decision was to include the hospital of Krosnieński County in the hospital network. This is a key success in our situation, without this there would be no further progress, namely support from the voivodship headquarters of the National Health Fund for the network of clinics, satisfying lump sums for running the hospital and today that 1200 thousand. from the reserve of the President of the Council of Ministers. So, the honorable council of the county and the old men, you've picked up the entire convenient pot, now it's time to show that this support made sense. I trust that none of the political groups will be insolent enough to claim this success, because if it were not for the determination of the Member who is currently speaking, the Law and Justice, the voivode of Law and Justice, the ministers and the Prime Minister of the Government of Law and Justice, we would not have seen it. However, it is worth recalling an important episode before the year when the chairman of the district council of Danuta Angel made a request to the prosecutor's office against the previous company for one time. This has given the matter new dynamics and, you can say, turned the river back. Danka, congratulations and thank you. I know you got your ass kicked for having a hard time, but today it seems like it was the right thing to do and it was worth it. Finally, I will repeat: you old men, the joy, have received everything that is necessary for this hospital to grow and work for the health of its inhabitants. Just try complaining now or ruining what so many people have earned by their efforts. Now is your time. All your credit cards are in your hands, so let's do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u370	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are events in personal, professional, social or political life that not only leave a lasting mark in our memory, but - which, in my view, is a much more serious issue - decisively determine the future of people. We must not forget such events Just to warn them never to repeat themselves again. Such events should be remembered to build the future on their experiences. Unfortunately, Poles cannot complain about the lack of bad experiences. In our Polish history there are many dates that could decide about the existence of the Polish state, so it is our duty to constantly remind them. Today I would like to recall the date of 17 September 1939, on which 78 years ago - despite the important pact on non-aggression between Poland and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of 1932, which was applicable until 1945 - the Soviet troops entered the eastern territory of the Second Republic. The decision to withdraw from the findings contained in the non-aggression pact and to enter the territory of the Republic of Poland was the consequence of the so-called non-aggression pact signed on 23 August 1939. The Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, by which the fourth partition of Poland and the division of Central Europe into the zones of influence of two countries began de facto. With a great deal of knowledge today about the behaviour of European politicians before World War II, we can safely say that Soviet aggression against Poland was planned much earlier in 1939. This is evidenced by a meeting in Moscow on 4 October 1938 - i.e. a few days after the signing of the Munich Treaty - the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union Vladimir Potimkin with the French ambassador, at which the Russian government said: I see no other way out than for us the fourth partition of Poland. After such words and disregardful treatment of the behaviour of the politicians of Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics by states that mattered in the political market of the world, it had already to be assumed that no political agreement would be honoured by the aggressors. Poland was not only to disappear from the maps of the world, but also to become a Polish socialist republic between the Vistula and Bug. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The entry of the Red Army into the territory of the Second Republic of Poland on 17 September 1939 and the violation of the Polish-Soviet non-aggression pact was surprising enough for the Polish government that he did not, however, decide to declare war to the aggressor. Nor did such a decision be decided by an hour's notice. 3 on the night of September 17, 1939, by the Deputy National Commissioner - Minister - Foreign Affairs of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics Potemkin to the Ambassador of the Republic of Poland in Moscow Wacław Grzybowski diplomatic note, in which the Russian party unilaterally stated the cessation of the existence of the Polish state. The consequence of such an absurd assumption - as it was written, justifying its behaviour, in a note - was entering Polish eastern lands to protect the property and life of Ukrainians and Belarusians living there. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The September campaign ended in a defeat of Poland. The consequences of this disaster are known. Therefore, let us constantly remind about its effects, because we see how similarly the Russian authorities justify each of their present armed intervention against nations wishing to develop their independent national culture. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u372	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u373	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I want to share the impressions I took from the ceremony of swearing in the Territorial Defence Army, which took place on 23 September this year. In Nisko. Over 140 soldiers, 32. The Battalion of the Light Infantry, which is already stationed in the Transnian garrison, was the day it vowed. This celebration impressed me very much. She was incredibly worthy. I think that's the word to be used here. The four verses of the hymn were sung with all strength not only by volunteers, not only by soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, but also by guests and residents of Niska, parents of these soldiers. It is really rare, because, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that it is in such a dignified way that these young people enter into such a serious service, a service for the Republic of Poland. This event merely confirmed my conviction that the Territorial Defence Army was needed in Poland, but convinced those who had so far been skeptical about the creation of this new type of Armed Forces. I later spoke to the people of Niska, who now appreciate this formation very well. Moreover, from national research it appears that the Territorial Defence Forces are well-connected and Poles asked whether they should be created, confirm, say so, that in every voivodship the brigade should be created. And that is the intention of the Ministry of National Defence. From this point on, I want to thank all those who form the Territorial Defence Army. I thank Minister Antoni Macierewicz for his idea and for his consistent implementation. Thank you, General Kukule, who is the boss and who is in charge of this formation. The general has served in the Special Forces before, so that I am convinced that his experience and skills in this field will be able to pass on to these young people, so that they will be really very professionally trained. The territorial defence forces are intended to serve the local community in times of peace, help in the elimination of natural disasters, but also cooperate with local government in various situations, and in the event of war - and I hope that this will not happen in Poland - of course they are to defend the local population. By 2019 there will be 16 brigades in every voivodship. That's over 53,000. soldiers. It's a huge force, mostly young people, who will build our defense potential. Once again, I encourage all those who love the Republic who feel up to serving our country to engage in the Territorial Defence Army. I know that in WCU Low recruitment is still ongoing, so that I encourage all those who would like to try their strength here. As I say, I am convinced that these troops will fulfil their function and will be a very strong reinforcement of our professional army. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-10-11-sejm-49-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 12 October 2017, no later than 12 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 16]]
