ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u1	I open the forty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Robert Dowhan to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Robert Dowhan. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the first 40 minutes of the sitting, I declare that the minutes of that meeting have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by two points: the Act amending the Anti-drugs Act and the Act on Refund of Medicines, Foods Specially for Nutrition and Medical Devices and consider this point as a third point; the Act amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices and consider this point as the fourth. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. I would like to inform you that today at 12.00 a half-hour break will be arranged for the opening of the exhibition under the leading star of science. In the century of Marian Smoluchowski's death. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, if there are no legislative proposals for the draft resolution on Marian Smoluchowski to vote on this issue, we will proceed immediately after considering this point. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform the High House that we will consider the information point of the Institute of National Remembrance after 4 p.m. today. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Marian Smoluchowski A brilliant Polish physicist. I would like to warmly welcome the guests present at the meeting. I very much welcome Mrs Anna Smoluchowska, a relative of Marian Smoluchowski. I very much welcome Mrs Teresa Jaroszewska, also a relative of Professor Marian Smoluchowski. [[Applause]] I would also like to welcome Mrs Katarzyna Chałasińska-Macukow, President of the Polish Physical Society, Faculty of Physics at the University of Warsaw, and Mr Bogdan Cichecki The Faculty of Physics at the University of Warsaw. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Welcome to Mr Mariusz Dąbrowski, Member of the Management Board of the Polish Physical Society, Institute of Physics of the University of Szczecin; Mr Henryk Figl, Member of the Management Board of the Polish Physical Society, Faculty of Physics and Computer Science of the Applied Mining and Steel Academy; Mr Mirosław Karpierz The Committee of Physics of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Dean of the Faculty of Physics of the Warsaw University of Technology; Mr Franciszek Krok, Chairman of the Committee of Physics of the Polish Academy of Sciences... [[From White...]] ...the Faculty of Physics of the Warsaw University of Technology; and Mr Andrzej Ślebarski's Committee of Physics of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Institute of Physics of the University of Silesia. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by Senator Kazimierz Wiatr and is included in print No 502, and the committee's report In print No 502 S. I would ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Wiatra, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We have prepared a resolution to commemorate and remind the character of Marian Smoluchowski, a brilliant Polish physicist who fits into a beautiful relay of outstanding Polish scholars. Let us remind Mikołaj Kopernik, Maria Skłodowska-Curie, Olszewski, Wróblewski or Professor Czochralski, who built the foundations of modern electronics and computer technology, and many, many others, such as cryptologists and mathematicians such as Banach and Kuratowski. At this time of extraordinary and rapid technological and civilizational changes, in which science plays a great role, when the information society and the knowledge-based economy is being built, it is very important that Poland and Poles take the right place in this process. This is, of course, a task for scientists and entrepreneurs, but also for young people who will continue this work in a few years. We want this resolution to show her a beautiful role model of a scientist, patriot, enthusiast, climber and tatterer, a beautiful and very true figure. Marian Smoluchowski was born on 28 May 1872 near Vienna. He's had extraordinary abilities since he was a young man. Graduated from physics at the University of Vienna with honors. At the same university, he defended his doctoral work with honors. He worked in science centers in Paris, Glasgow, Berlin. After returning to Vienna he became a docent, received the right to lecture, but it was the law he transferred to the University of Lviv, which justified this, among others. possibility of conducting lectures in Polish. In 1913. Marian Smoluchowski accepted the invitation of the Jagiellonian University and took charge of the Department of Experimental Physics. In 1917 he was elected Rector of the Jagiellonian University, but he did not take up this function. His outstanding scientific successes are related to the co-creation of kinetic theory of matter, explaining the phenomenon of Brown's movements, regardless of Albert Einstein. He was among the precursors of the use of stochastic methods as a tool for describing physical phenomena. The 3 Nobel Prizes in the 1920s were closely related to Marian Smoluchowski's achievements and if he had lived at that time, he would have received at least one of them. After Marian Smoluchowski's death, Albert Einstein wrote about him. But not only was physics an important target of his research and scientific activities. He worked closely with the philosophers of the Lviv-Warsaw School, but he was also the leading European climber of that time. He was the first Pole to win Matterhorn and many other peaks, for which he was awarded many times. He was also one of the pioneers of Polish skiing and tathering, he made a difficult first pass through the western wall of the Little End. He was chairman of the Tourist Section of the Tatra Society. Today we put this beautiful figure as a pattern and encouragement, but also a reason to be proud. Last year in July, during World Youth Days, Pope Francis spoke to young people about good memory, i.e. to remember the beautiful events of family life, society, nation. We too rarely recall these extremely boastful cards of our history, including especially concerning the contribution of Poles and Poles to world science, to civilization. I would like to thank Professor Katarzyna Chałasińska-Macukow, President of the Polish Physical Society, for her great contribution and participation in the preparation of this resolution, but also in the preparation of the Smoluchowski Year. Thank you so much to all the guests today. I thank the Senate Legislative Commission for working on this resolution. I would like to say that the treatments of the Polish Physical Society were numerous and extensive. I'll say there was a meeting of a group of professors with Marshal Karczewski. Mr. Marshal took the patronage over national celebrations organized by the Polish Physical Society, the University of Warsaw and the Jagiellonian University. They will be in Krakow in September. In the Senate we make a resolution and there is a prepared exhibition. There will be a conference in the Senate on Friday. Thank you so much for all this activity and for the kindness of our guests today. Turning to the formal part of the report, I would like to say that the Legislative Commission on 31 May 2017 examined at first reading the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate's support for the uniform text of the resolution which I will read. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the death of Marian Smoluchowski A brilliant Polish physicist. Marian Smoluchowski, a brilliant Polish physicist, died prematurely on September 5, 1917, when he was only 45 years old. He was one of the world's greatest scientists at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. He was awarded the Commander's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland posthumously in 1936. Marian Smoluchowski was born on May 28, 1872 in Vorderbrühl, in the vicinity of the town of Mödling near Vienna. He's had extraordinary abilities since he was a young man. He graduated with the highest honors in physics from the University of Vienna. His teachers were Franz Serafin Exner and Joseph Stefan. He married Zofia Baraniecka, daughter of a professor of mathematics at the Jagiellonian University Marian Baraniecki, with whom he had a daughter Aldona and a son of Roman, also a physicist, a graduate of the University of Warsaw, and then a professor of universities at Princeton and Austin. At the University of Vienna in 1895, he was awarded a doctoral degree. For several years he worked in various scientific centres in Europe (Paris, Glasgow, Berlin). After returning to Vienna in 1898 he became a docent and was given the right to lecture, which he transferred to the University of Lviv, which is justified by the possibility of conducting lectures in Polish. At the age of 28, he took the position of professor of extraordinary theoretical physics at the University of Lviv, and at the age of 31, he was the ordinary professor, then the youngest professor in the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Between 1906 and 1907 he was the president of the Polish Society of Naturalists. Santa Copernicus. In 1913, Marian Smoluchowski accepted the invitation of the Jagiellonian University and took charge of the Department of Experimental Physics after Augusta Witkowski, who had already predicted him as his successor. On July 15, 1917 he was elected Rector of the Jagiellonian University. He did not make it because he died of dysentery on September 5, 1917. Marian Smoluchowski was one of the co-founders of kinetic theory of matter. In 1904, contrary to the common opinion, he presented arguments confirming the possibility of observing the fluctuations in physical size caused by the grainy structure of matter. Independently of Albert Einstein, he explained the phenomenon of Brown's movements, which contributed to the final acceptance by the scientific community of the real existence of atoms. The introduction of these fluctuations also allowed him to explain the mysterious phenomenon of critical opalescence, as well as (regardless of Albert Einstein's research) to give a correct answer to the question Why is the sky blue? Marian Smoluchowski was one of the precursors of use... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, gentlemen of the Senators, please. Quiet, please.]] Marian Smoluchowski was among the precursors of the use of stochastic methods as a tool for describing physical phenomena. The three Nobel Prizes in the 1920s were closely related to Marian Smoluchowski's achievements: in 1925 in chemistry (Richard Zsigmondy), in 1926 in physics (Jean Perrin) and in chemistry (Theodor Svedberg). If he lived a little longer, he would probably have received (for theoretical works concerning colloids) the first of them. After Marian Smoluchowski's death, many excellent scholars published memories of him. Albert Einstein summarized his memoirs by saying: "Too early cut the fate of his inspired work as a researcher and teacher... Let us lease his pattern and work high. But it wasn't just physics that was the meaning of life for him. He collaborated closely with the philosophers of the Lviv-Warsaw School, introducing them into the arkana of physics, while in the field of philosophy he was dealing, among other things, with an analysis of the concept of chance and probability. Marian Smoluchowski and his brother Tadeusz were also among the leading European climbers of that time. Only in the years 1891 and 1893, without guides, they made 16 new entrances to the peaks and tournaments and set out 24 new routes. Smoluchowski is one of the few Polish climbers who have the first climbing to the Alps. He was the first Pole to win, among others, Matterhorn, Zinalrothorn, Dent Blanche, Finsteraarhorn and Breithorn. For his high mountain achievements he was awarded many times. Marian Smoluchowski was also one of the pioneers of Polish skiing and tathering. Since 1909, he has been skiing and climbing the Tatra Mountains. In 1911 he and his brother Tadeusz made a ski trip to Marmaroska Carpathians, which was unknown to Poles. In the same year, together with Janusz Chmielowski, Ignacy King, Józef Łukaszewicz and Wacław Zakrzewski, he made the difficult first passage through the western wall of the Little End. In 1911-1912 he was president of the Tourist Section of the Tatra Society and worked in ski organizations. He wrote in magazines on mountain and ski topics. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland reminds us of the character of a brilliant physicist about a great contribution to world science. Let it become an inspiration for subsequent generations of Polish researchers. The young age of Marian Smoluchowski and his great scientific successes should be a great inspiration especially today, when the information society and the knowledge-based economy are being built. His love for Poland, including especially respect for Polish language, Polish nature and Polish culture, deserves special attention. The Senate of the Republic of Poland is convinced that recalling Marian Smoluchowski's figure in the 100th anniversary of his death should become an opportunity to introduce his person into public space Especially for schools and universities. Closer knowledge of His life story and achievements will be an important lesson of Polish contribution to world science. The beautiful attitude of Polish patriotism presented by a world-class Polish scholar, let it become an inspiration for the young generation and society as a whole. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much to all those who contributed to this resolution. Please accept this important resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u3	Thank you very much, Professor. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also the applicant. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Andrzej Biesiołek to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This special resolution... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...which we are going to take today, prompts some reflection. I think it is worth noting here, in what circumstances and where Marian Smoluchowski made his scientific discoveries and built the position of Polish physics. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Marian Smoluchowski was a professor at the University of Lviv. It was the very end of the 19th century. At the same time, in 1895, another outstanding Polish intellectual, Kazimierz Twardowski, comes to Lviv, who decides to build a Polish philosophy school. It focuses around itself extremely important for intellectual life not only of Poland, but also of Europe, and it can be said that even the world of personalities. Just mention such philosophers as: Kazimierz Ajdukiewicz, Tadeusz Kotarbiński, Stanisław Leśniewski, Jan Łukasiewicz, Alfred Tarski or Władysław Tatarkiewicz, who also functioned in this group. This group received the name of the Lviv-Warsaw school. It was one of the world's leading philosophical schools at that time. It had, like, two orientations. The first is the logical orientation in which Leśniewski and Łukasiewicz were led and their disciple Alfred Tarski, who is considered one of the most outstanding logicians of all time. His name is mentioned next to Aristotle, Frege and Kurt Gödl. Later, a math school was established in Lviv with Stefan Banach and Hugon Steinhaus. And there was Marian Smoluchowski, who formed the foundations for great, great physics there. These environments weren't indifferent, they weren't side by side. Lviv philosophers were interested in mathematics, they were interested in physics. In the world of mathematics they were introduced by another outstanding Polish mathematician Wacław Sierpiński. Many of them received their physical education from Marian Smoluchowski. Twardowski had a program for the development of philosophy and science in Poland. His program assumed that Poles should find their own way to philosophical meditation, not to use only German, French or English thought. He was a great promoter of knowledge and science and a great teacher. But Marian Smoluchowski, apart from being a great physicist, also had a philosophy. The proof of this is the inclusion of his texts in Kazimierz Aydukiewicz's work entitled: Main directions of philosophy in exceptions from the works of their classic representatives. In this work Aydukiewicz placed the text of Smoluchowski from 1917 entitled: Do natural teachings give us a glimpse of the real world? So he wrote Smoluchowski into outstanding philosophical texts. On the basis of this, I would like to draw attention to one thing. Namely in the first half of the 20th century, or actually until the outbreak of World War II, Lviv and its scientific community was one of the most dynamic scientific centres not only of Europe, but also of the world. And I think it is worth emphasising this anniversary of Marian Smoluchowski's death. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Family Representatives! Ladies and gentlemen! There is Mariana Smoluchowskiego Street in Warsaw Powiśle. It must be admitted that unfortunately for many inhabitants of Warsaw, I think that also for many Poles, it is a bit forgotten today, albeit as worthy of attention, and above all for memory and proper honoring. That is why I am very pleased that, at the initiative of Professor Wind, this resolution will be adopted in a moment and we will be able to celebrate an outstanding Pole, a scholar and a patriot. I would no longer like to invoke Marian Smoluchowski's merits, but I would like to concentrate on the environment from which he originated and which shows a great deal, because it was the Polish intelligence of the turn of the 19th and 20th century, which, in fact, thanks to its activity, thanks to its commitment, patriotism, education and skills gained a very high social position under the conditions of partitions, but also thought about the homeland. Marian Smoluchowski did not live to regain his independence by Poland, but he was from the year 1872. Most of his peers were in the flower of life when Poland gained independence. They were professors, ex-generals, MPs, senators, teachers, prominent clergymen, lawyers, doctors. It's from this generation. It was later the core of the independent Republic of Poland, it was a generation which raised the act of independence and which thanks to its wisdom, its talents, its commitment, also social activity allowed to recreate and build from the basis of the independent Polish state in the interwar period. I would like to point out that among the immediate family of Marian Smoluchowski's wife were such outstanding figures as Jan Szczepański, a conspirator, an engineer. It was the grandfather of Marian Smoluchowski's wife. His biography is placed in the Polish Biographical Dictionary, i.e. a publication describing biographies of outstanding people who deserved in the history of Poland, throughout the panorama of Polish history, over a thousand years old. The great-grandfather of Marian Smoluchowski's wife was Antoni Popliński, who was born at the end of the 18th century, educator, bookseller and editor, also included in the Polish Biographic Dictionary. But also from the side of Marian Smoluchowski himself... It is worth mentioning his brother, Tadeusz Smoluchowski, an outstanding mountaineer, an outstanding tavern, a person who is extremely well deserved. I recall these names of outstanding representatives of Polish intelligence of the breakthrough of our difficult history, period of partitions and regaining independence for this reason, to show how these environments thought about Poland, about engaging in social affairs, in public affairs, and at the same time trying to use these sometimes difficult conditions to achieve social status and to be able from the position of their professions, their skills, the knowledge they obtained... to use it not only for their own benefit, but especially for the social good. As I understand, the resolution discussed here also pays tribute to the generation of outstanding Poles and shows how our history is a message of generational traditions and best achievements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Antoni Szymański made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Marian Smoluchowski A brilliant Polish physicist. Who among you is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 72 senators voted in favour, 72 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Marian Smoluchowski A brilliant Polish physicist. I ask the relatives of Marian Smoluchowski, Teresa Jaroszewska and Anna Smoluchowska to approach the presidential table. We would like to present the Senate's resolution to the ladies. [[Here, please.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the exhibition dedicated to Marian Smoluchowski will be opened at 12.00. Now, we're just gonna wait for the guests to leave the sitting room for a while, and we're gonna proceed with the next item on the agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Quiet in the O.R. because we're on our way back to work. We proceed with the second agenda: the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities. The text of the Act is contained in print No 529 and the report of the Commission In print No 529 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Health Committee the position of the Committee on the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medical entities. The subject matter of the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities is how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities, taking into account the type of work carried out and the manner and schedule of the investigation to the target level of basic salary thus established. The proposed law will introduce provisions for workers engaged in medical professions to ensure the protection of the basic salary, and for groups of workers who are least earners it will ensure that wages are gradually increased over a certain period of time. The purpose of this law is not to establish the conditions for remuneration for the work of medical professionals in such a way as to create the so-called. the wage net, but setting the lowest basic salaries, i.e. the minimum level below which the employer cannot set the basic salary. Therefore, the proposed law does not set the upper basic remuneration rates but only the lower limit. The establishment of a lower basic salary limit for medical staff will allow a gradual elimination of the phenomenon of savings in medical entities, as indicated by employee organisations, by reducing remuneration. The proposed law will serve to increase the interest in training in medical professions, promote employment within the country and encourage already employed staff to improve their professional qualifications through specialisation. As a result, this process will translate into the number and professionality of healthcare professionals employed in medical entities and thus result in a higher level of health safety by improving the quality and availability of health services and a higher level of health safety. In addition, the proposed law is intended to provide a systemic solution leading to the elimination of inequalities in the level of remuneration of basic groups of medical workers employed in medicinal entities in the years 2017 to 2021. From 1 January 2022, the basic salary of a medical professional shall not be less than the lowest basic salary fixed at 31 December 2021. According to the assumptions made, the proposed law covers only medical professionals in the context of their employment relationship with the medicinal entities referred to in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Law of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities. The proposed law covers the above-mentioned medicinal entities regardless of the source of funding, the type of entity that has set up the therapeutic entity and its ownership structure. Exclusion from the scope of regulation of a specific part of the staff of medicinal products, e.g. employed in the non-public sector, could expose the draft law to a charge contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of differentiation of similar entities. The proposed act includes, among others, the following: staff of medicinal entities acting in the form of a budgetary unit. At present, the lowest rate of monthly basic salary for this group of workers is regulated by the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 17 July 2014 on the conditions for remuneration for the work of staff of medicinal agents. Following the entry into force of the proposed law, the regulation will have to be adjusted on a case-by-case basis to the lowest basic salary determined as specified in the proposed law. Medical professionals are, according to the proposed law, persons employed in the context of the employment relationship in medical entities engaged in the medical profession, as defined in Article. 2 (2) 1 point 2 of the Law of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities, as well as persons employed in the context of a relationship of work in a medicinal entity, which are directly involved in the performance of the tasks of the State Sanitary Inspection consisting in preventive and ongoing health surveillance and the conduct of preventive and anti-epidemiological activities in the field of infectious diseases and other diseases caused by environmental conditions, as well as in the pursuit of educational and health activities. The remuneration of the intern's doctor and dentist will continue to be determined by a regulation of the Minister responsible for Health issued pursuant to Article. 16j paragraph. 5 of the Act of 5 December 1996 on competitions for doctors and dentists. However, it will not be able to be set at a level lower than the lowest basic salary for that professional group set out in the proposed law. A group of non-specialised doctors and dentists has not excluded resident doctors whose salary, as so far, will be determined by the Minister responsible for health by means of a regulation issued pursuant to Article. 16j paragraph. The 5th Act of 5 December 1996 on the Competition of Doctors and Dentist Doctors will have to take into account the lowest basic salary for doctors without specialization resulting from the proposed Act. The introduction of specific rules on the establishment of the lowest basic salary is justified only in relation to an isolated group of employees with a common characteristic, i.e. to medical professionals in medicinal entities. These rules are intended to protect the interests of undoubted importance, i.e. the constitutionally guaranteed right of the citizen to health protection. In order to ensure the fulfilment of this right by the State, it is necessary to take measures aimed not only at training professional medical personnel, but also at encouraging them to enter the profession in medical entities in the territory of the Republic of Poland. One of the main factors influencing the decision of those with medical education to take up employment in the profession is the level of earnings which, according to the health community, should correspond to the particular importance of their work. According to the proposed law, the lowest basic salary will be the product of the average monthly gross remuneration in the national economy in the year prior to the determination announced by the President of the Central Statistical Office in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland, and the labour factor specified in the annex to the Act. In the period from the date of entry into force of the Act until 31 December 2019 the base amount was set at PLN 3 000 900 gross. This amount corresponds to the average remuneration in the national economy in 2015, announced in the Communication by the President of the Central Statistical Office. This means that when adjusting salaries in 2020 and 2021, employers will be required to apply the annual amount of the average monthly gross remuneration in the national economy in the year preceding the determination. The adoption of such a solution was due to the need for a precise determination of the indicator subsequently used in assessing the financial consequences of the implementation of the proposed law. The lowest basic salary will be paid to a full-time medical professional. A part-time worker will be entitled to the lowest basic salary in proportion to the employer's working time in the employment contract. The draft law provides that by 31 December 2021 medicinal products will be required to guarantee each medical professional the lowest basic salary determined in accordance with Article. 3 draft law, i.e. based on the product of the labour factor resulting from the annex to the Act and the amount of the average monthly gross remuneration in the national economy in the year preceding the determination. The lowest remuneration will only have to be achieved on 31 December 2021. After that date, the basic salary of medical staff shall not be lower than the lowest basic salary fixed at 31 December 2021. For the period from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2021, medicinal entities shall, by means of annual talks, set a gradual increase in remuneration with the trade unions. Ms Marshal, High Senate, it should be pointed out that the increase in average monthly salaries over the previous 5 years was 14.7% From PLN 3 thousand 399 and PLN 52 in 2011 to PLN 3 thousand 899 and PLN 78 in 2015. The minimum wage increases provided for in the draft law will already significantly exceed the actual historical level of the average monthly salary increase for the last 5 years. In accordance with the draft law, by 31 December 2021, medicinal entities shall, as a result of the gradual increase in the basic salaries of healthcare professionals, achieve the lowest wage levels assumed by the various occupational groups. In other words, from 1 July 2017 to 1 July 2021, the Act is intended to guarantee a gradual approximation of the annual increases made at 1 July to the actual basic salaries below the target levels. A process for these groups to achieve the basic remuneration at a level not lower than the lowest levels resulting from the Act is to be carried out by 31 December 2021 at the latest. The bill assigns medical staff employed in medical entities to 10 professional groups. I'm not going to list these groups, it's a pretty long list starting with doctors and dentists who have a second degree of specialization or a medical specialist, and end up with a physiotherapist or another medical professional. According to the bill's draft... For example, I can say that a doctor or dentist who has obtained a second degree specialization or a degree of specialist in a particular field of medicine, according to the annex to the bill, will be... Its lowest remuneration will be calculated taking into account the labour rate of 1,27. Thus, on 31 December 2019 the lowest basic salary for this group will be PLN 4 000 953 and in 2021 PLN 6 000 351. E.g. for an intern's doctor or dental practitioner, the intern's salary will be PLN 2 000 847 in 2019 and PLN 3 000 651 in 2021. E.g. in the case of a nurse or midwife with a master's degree in nursing or specialising midwifery, the working rate is set at 1.05 and the lowest salary at 31 December should be PLN 4 000 95 in 2019 and PLN 5 000 251 in 2021. The proposed law does not set the remuneration of medical staff, but merely sets the lowest legal level of basic remuneration for those workers. At the committee meeting, proposals for amendments to this law were considered. The amendments mainly concerned the inclusion of the law in addition to medical professionals also of other staff employed in medicinal entities. There were also amendments to the increase in labour rates. Senator Grodzki has tabled an amendment which has increased these indicators for practically all groups of workers. The Nursing Group has tabled proposals for amendments to increase working rates for groups of nurses, but after an examination of the financial implications they have not been supported by the committee because they would have a very high financial impact on the state budget. Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, the committee requests that the bill be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u10	I refer to your report, in which you say that amendments have been tabled during the work. Question one, did you... Well, not only have improvements been reported, but also the position of hospital pharmacists has been taken into account, who, as you know, have a status similar to that concerning the profession of doctor, because they undergo the same training cycle, also includes their need for continuous training, and the tasks they perform exceed the scope of work in normal pharmacies. - You're It knows perfectly well, so I'm not going to expand this thread because I'm limited by 1 minute. And they were treated in this legal hierarchy at almost the lowest level, or 1.05 wages. However, in the opinion of the committee, in the opinion of the majority, should not the qualifications, requirements and justice be taken into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u11	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we didn't talk about this in committee, but the employment rate attached to this law shows that the pharmacist is equal in terms of working rate, with a doctor without specialization. So I think it's somehow... [[How many...]] 1.05. It's the same as a doctor without specialization. [[It's not the same because the doctors are 1.22...]] Senator, I repeat, the doctor without specialization is 1.05. Yeah, well, so is the pharmacist.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u13	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Tomasz Grodzki a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I just have one question. It is no secret that the committee meeting took place Before the previous Senate meeting, and since government proposals met with very cold, to put it mildly, the adoption of medical circles, they tried to work for a week at least a little bit on changing labour-value factors. Is it clear to Mr President whether this has had any effect, or is the so-called zero effect?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u15	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Yes, it was. Mr. Marshal has withdrawn this item from the previous agenda so that we can... In fact, so that the Senate Legislative Office can determine the financial implications of the individual amendments that have been tabled. I can say, for example. what the groups of nurses proposed, i.e. an increase in the rate of work, could give rise to about PLN 60 billion, so it is very large money. I think, unfortunately, in this situation, the budget... Although I myself, as a doctor, am strongly in favour of these amounts for lower wages being significantly higher and for this labour ratio to be greater for individual groups, I think that at the moment, in this budgetary situation, we are unable to bear this financially.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u17	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u18	Mr President, tell me how a large group of medical staff today receives salaries below those indicators that are designed. That's one thing. Secondly, where will the money come from for these raises? And how much longer will the funding of hospitals increase, which will now be funded on a flat-rate basis? Will the contribution increase or will the state budget increase? Because it's known that today this money is missing, and hospital directors aren't so low-paying that they're bad guys, just because they're bad guys. As the President said in his statement of reasons, That it costs money and that it doesn't have the money. So where will they come from, and how much will they need? Mr President mentioned this a little bit, but I would like to ask if there were representatives of medical corporations at the committee meeting. And what was the position of the union of nurses and midwives, as well as the Chief Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u19	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, why don't I start with the second question. Indeed, at the meeting there were representatives of the chief nurse's chamber who tabled the draft amendment so that, in the case of a nurse with a master's degree and without specialization, this working rate from 0.64 to 1 for a master's nurse with a specialty from 0.73 also increased to 1 and for a nurse without a master's degree and without specialization From 0,64 to 0,73. Those were the nurse's suggestions. This, of course, has a powerful budgetary impact. As for the first question, I do not have these details, but I know that there is a minister here who will surely present these data to the senator and show these budgetary implications.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u21	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Maciej Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have two questions. Mr President, do you not think that this law does not fully cover all the medical professions that are being performed in the country? We're talking about medical facilities here today, but actually nurses are also functioning, for example. in social assistance homes And they're completely out of the question in this bill. And today, the situation arises... Did you ever talk about it? Because today, the situation is that old age saves very much on nurses and is being demedicated, at the expense of the social workers' homes. And whether there will be a large difference between nurses employed in medical establishments and those employed e.g. In social services? Did you talk about it? And then there's the second line. Between 2017 and 2021, salary increases are to take place and discussion between trade unions and employers is taken into account. And what happens when there are no trade unions? E.g. private operators often do not have trade union committees in their structure. And with whom will this discussion be held then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u23	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll start with the second question, of course. If a trade union organisation does not operate in a medicinal entity, the agreement shall be concluded with an employee chosen by the staff member of the medicinal entity to represent their interests. And it's specified in the bill. About why not all the groups... This is simply due to the regulation that came out and which determines what are the medical professions and indicates all these groups in this law taken into account. Of course, we would like this solution to be spread out also to workers who do not perform medical professions, and at the same time we are working in medical provision units, we are talking about medical secretaries, salons, other employees. But this law will only apply to professions that... people who pursue a purely medical profession. [[Can I add one more question? Because we didn't understand each other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u25	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u26	I mean people who do a medical profession, i.e. Nurses, but working at a social worker's home. Why doesn't the law include this group, but only medical facilities?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u27	I think the minister might be able to answer that, because we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u28	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, it's just a quick question, 'cause we have a recess at 12:00. You're welcome. I take it you want to ask?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u29	Senator, Doctor, you're right when you compare pharmacists to doctors without specialization. My question And in this case you missed the intention of my question about hospital pharmacists, i.e. specializations, who differ significantly from the relevant specialist doctors in the table. And the second question. Was this project... It has an opinion of the Social Dialogue Council, and in particular of the Solidarity Council. What are the differences in these opinions between the position of the government and the position of the Council of Social Dialogue or the relationship between "Solidarity" and "Solidarity"?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u30	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, of course you could also raise that factor for pharmacists working in the hospital. But that's how this group is ranked right now, and this factor is just the same as for a doctor without specialization. Well, there's a discussion about whether it should be lower or higher. We didn't really talk about it at the committee meeting. Indeed, this project was consulted very widely. At the meeting of the committee, there was a representative of the trade union, who proposed amendments to include this law also non-medical workers, i.e. those working in hospitals, performing auxiliary professions without which, in fact, doctors or nurses in their work would not have managed. But as I say, this bill only applies to medical professions. However, in the article. 5 it is mentioned that the agreement or order also lays down the rules for increasing the remuneration of a person employed in the context of the employment relationship in a medical entity who is not engaged in a medical profession, so that this remuneration corresponds in particular to the type of work performed and the qualifications required for the performance of the work, and takes account of the quantity and quality of the work rendered.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u32	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? Mr. Marshal wants to ask you a question. But, Mr. Marshal, it's over. I will now announce a break, and after a break we will return to the questions of the Chairman of the Health Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 12.30 a.m. Thank you very much. Welcome to the opening of the exhibition. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u33	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the second agenda: the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities. We continue to ask the rapporteur's questions to the committee. Marshal Borusewicz wants to ask you a question. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, tell me if the medical lifeguard profession is a medical profession.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u35	Yes, of course. [[I see. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u36	Are there any more questions for the President and the rapporteur of the bill? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented at the moment? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Yes.]] Welcome to the meeting of Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u37	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of medical professionals employed in medicinal entities is a government project presented to the High House. The government of the Republic of Poland, when working on this law, was mainly based on such an assumption that injustices and inequalities in salaries which arose in the course of many years in health care were compensated. In recent years, various regulations have been adopted for individual professional groups, which resulted from various types of protests. This caused the wages to widen. The fact of unequal pay has created a sense of injustice among health care professionals, as well as a cause of non-employment, especially in deficit competitions, i.e. in the profession of doctor, nurse and paramedic. This bill was meant to play an important role here. Of course, it had to be applied to the financial capacity of the State. I would like to stress that the total cost of the proposed regulation by 2021 will be PLN 16.8 billion. The expenditure of the public finance sector will increase by this amount. As far as the sources of compensation are concerned... These types of questions have been raised in previous questions. In the case of employees in the sector financed by public funds, i.e. the National Health Fund, this will be covered by these funds. The simulations carried out for subsequent years, which take into account the indicators taken into account in the establishment of the budget plan, show that the amounts that will affect the National Health Fund's budget will, in relation to the previous years, be covered by 16%. , in various years, expenditure related to this salary increase. The Act also covers the regulation of the remuneration of trainees' and residents' doctors. As you know very well, these salaries are financed directly from the state budget, as are expenditures to cover the increase in salaries of workers employed in sanitary inspections or blood establishments. This appropriation will be allocated from the State budget. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 Acts are calculated the effects of this increase on the state budget. The State budget shall guarantee individual amounts per year. So that the legislator's intention was to compensate for these inequalities in terms of salaries in particular professional groups, as well as to encourage medical workers, medical professionals, to remain in the country and pursue this profession in the country. I would like to stress that the regulation applies to medical professionals employed in medicinal agents, the Minister of Health in this area may regulate the lowest salaries. On the other hand, it does not apply to medical professionals employed in another area, e.g. in the area of social policy or specifically in the DPS. The funds for these salaries are transferred from the state budget by a completely different mode I would also like to inform you that work is currently underway at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy to develop a comparable model of pay for workers who are employed in the social assistance sector. The Minister of Health could not settle this issue. So much for entry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u39	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I suppose you listened to the questions I asked after the speech of the rapporteur, Dr. Kraska. I will repeat this question because, as I understand it, you have just said that this change concerns the compensation of certain inequalities. I'd say maybe even hurt. And that's what pharmacists and medical pharmacists report, whose pedagogical path, as well as career during work, is, as you know, similar to the path and career of specialist doctors. Meanwhile, in this table they were treated as ordinary doctors. The question is, are you familiar with their position? How do you feel about these roads, their careers being comparable in this table as well?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u40	Thank you very much. One moment, Minister. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u41	I didn't understand exactly what the Minister said when it came to securing the funds. As far as the NFZ budget is concerned, this gap is surprising. So how much is the NFZ gonna be? 13% , a dozen percent or a dozen percent will cover... 'Cause the minister says a dozen to 80%. So, what's it gonna be? That's one thing. Secondly, whether this difference, which is, will be covered entirely by the state budget or only by the formula mentioned by the Minister, i.e. by the Labour Fund and by the money allocated e.g. To maintain the sanitation service? What's it really like? And then there's the third question. It's a little bit like what Senator Rulewski asked. That I've already asked Senator President. Because if the bill is going to equalise opportunities, then why so many complaints from medical communities that it is the opposite, and that instead of evening out, you differentiate it, and that is unfairly, for example. underestimating the workload of certain professional groups, especially nurses and midwives? How do you relate to this? Because if it's true what we get in the writings, then... [[But the question, Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. [[Now it's a comment. The question has already been asked.]] No, no, I'd like to ask you one more question. Because if there is... [[Yeah, but we have a minute to ask, and it's taking a little longer for sure, although I'm not measuring the time.]] I'm just gonna finish my sentence. [[It's been a long time for me.]] I'll finish my sentence. [[Not yet, Mr. Marshal,]] [[What else? Hasn't it been a minute?]] Because if... [[Well, it didn't. Your colleagues say it's not gone, so please.]] Thank you, that's really just one sentence. Because since it is that some medical environments to all senators I suppose they send letters to all, claiming that this law wrongly, so to speak, values their work, will the purpose of this law be achieved?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u42	Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u43	Ladies and gentlemen! I answer the senators' questions about putting in this table particular categories of medical professions physiotherapists or pharmacists. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the categories themselves and the catalogue of these categories, this was determined. Let's just say that this was the subject of negotiations with the social side. These categories were accepted at the beginning of work on the bill. This is a 10 category division, but in the first version of this project there was another category, notified by the trade union.Solidarity, which later, in the course of further work on the law, was unfortunately abolished due to the comments of the Government Centre for Legislation. These categories, as I mentioned, were the subject of negotiations, while the differences between the social side and the government side concerned the level of individual indicators. And here I have to say with regret that there was no common position, because social expectations in all professional groups Whatever category the employees were assigned to, they were much, much higher. Given the financial impact of these expectations, the current government in the current situation is unable to meet them and, therefore, these categories have been created to which appropriate indicators have been assigned. As for pharmacists and comparison of them to doctors with specialization, ladies and gentlemen... [[Hospitals...]] Yeah. Hospitals. I understand you, and I also understand the expectations of this professional group. I very much value the work of this professional group, but comparing the scope of tasks carried out by representatives of this profession and specialists, we see that it is slightly different. We also take into account the process of acquiring qualifications. Senator, when it comes to the process of obtaining a specialist's qualifications in the field of medicine and pharmacy, it's a little different. Well, a specialist doctor gets this specialization in the course of training at least 5 years old, for some types of specialization we are even dealing with a 6-year procedure for obtaining these qualifications. In turn, this takes much less time for pharmacists. The scope of competence of both persons varies considerably and has therefore been qualified in this way. We might wonder why we don't talk, for example. about a rehab student who also has a specialty, only about a pharmacist. It is also a person with a higher education and specialization, and it is also in this category, which has a ratio of 1.05. So that's how I answer that question. Now it's a cost-covering issue. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have mentioned, as regards the cost of raising the salary of trainees' doctors, residents, health professionals and blood establishments, it is in the article. 6 are precise calculation of the effects. This will be covered by the state budget and is also reflected in the measures planned for the following years. These measures are guaranteed by the State budget. Increases for other health care professionals will be financed from revenue increases over the years. I said how it would be financed. Maybe I'll give you some specific examples here. In 2017, the increase in revenues of the NFZ compared to revenues in 2016 is 737 million 802 thousand. With regard to the effect of this salary increase for staff employed in medical entities this year, this is 200 million. So out of over 700 million, 26%. will be consummated for a salary increase. Other funds may be used to increase other costs. The decision here will depend on the director of the medical facility. In the following years it will look like this. In 2018, the simulated revenue increase will amount to more than PLN 5 billion and the costs associated with wage increases will consume around 13% of the amount. Come on. In the next year, in 2019 it will be 33% and the largest... Given that the revenue increase of the NFZ will be based on the indicators adopted in the State budget and in the multiannual financial plans, the highest consumption of the budget increase will be in 2021 and will be 66.8%. But given that the Ministry of Health is working on changing the way health care is financed, these issues may look a little different in the final years. I would like to stress that there is coverage in the resources that are in the NFZ to finance these increases in the amount that the government is currently presenting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act enters into force 14 days from the date of the announcement, so it will not enter into force before 1 July of this year. The first raises are due on 1 July of this year. Will this mean that they will be overpaid, i.e. Will they be refunded backwards? Is that how it's supposed to be read? Because there is no transitional provision, so why don't we calm down the people who will be subject to the rigor of this law or the beneficiaries of this law. And second question. In 2017 the state budget allocates 0 PLN... Does this mean that interns won't get raises in 2017, or do they already have enough that they don't have to get it? Maybe this is how I'm gonna ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u46	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u47	As regards the date of entry into force, the Act actually enters into force 14 days from the date of publication, but with effect from 1 July. That is to say, if the entire legislative process related to this law is completed, the rules will apply from 1 July, i.e. hospital directors will be required to sign agreements which will relate to the period from 1 July. This change was introduced during the work in the Sejm and the Act is specified by when these agreements are to be signed with the directors. So that the increases will be from 1 July provided that the bill passes the whole legislative process. And another question about budget increases. Of course, these increases will be in the budgetary sphere after a detailed analysis has been carried out. As we do not have a lot of employees in this sector, we have carried out detailed analyses of the use of the budget this year for the first six months. It turns out that there are measures that have been guaranteed in this year's budget, and these measures allow to cover 100% of the costs of these increases. Yeah, that's in the article. 6 we have entered 0 PLN because these funds are secured in the budget law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u49	After listening to your speech, I would like to ask a philosophical question: what is true in the speech of the government Because, as I understand it, this is a government project, subject to various consultations... Is it true that the budget is difficult, that there is no means to meet even the necessary needs, which in a moment, or is the Minister's weekly speech in the so-called. The national media, who says the budget is bursting with surplus? And that's the first question. Well, let me add that another minister says every now and then: we caught a thief from whose pocket we pulled 200 million zlotys... which is as much as these raises could provide. And second question. It is a fact that you confirm that there is a dispute between the social side and the government in terms of fulfilling promises or meeting the needs of other workers not included in these tables, especially support staff. And so the first question I want to ask is whether the government has any prospect of reaching an agreement with the social side in the near future, i.e. a few months, years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u50	You're welcome, Minister... Are there any more questions for the Minister? He's not here yet. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that the solution proposed by the current government is one of the solutions... i.e. is the solution... Until now, none of the previous governments have undertaken to regulate this issue. This is a heavy burden for the state budget. The aim of this regulation is to eliminate the sense of injustice that operates among health professionals in terms of remuneration. This is the first such system regulation in health care and I would like to stress that it has a sector value. So far, there have been no such regulations in health care for medical professionals. Such regulations exist e.g. in the education where is the Teacher's Charter and the various privileges of this title. And there was no such sector-specific regulation in health care, this is the first attempt to make such a regulation. I think that it is beneficial for health workers, because it guarantees them a minimum wage. What's the minimum wage? Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have this knowledge, too. Employees, often with higher education, with specialization, currently have basic salaries within the range of PLN 2,300, PLN 2,400. We offer them over PLN 5 000 of basic salary in a few years' perspective. This is a clear appreciation of these people, professionals in health care. And that's the direction of this regulation. We are aware that we are unable at this time, at this stage of the process to provide more resources in order to meet social expectations. Well, I think that each of us has a lot of experience in this area and is fully aware that these social expectations are considerable, otherwise very right, but we are not able to meet them at the moment. I would like to stress that the agreement that the previous government has concluded with nurses and midwives is continuing in parallel and is still receiving 4 times 400, although this was not guaranteed in the 2016 and 2017 budget. At the moment, it is also made from the state budget an additional amount for increases for medical rescuers in the amount of PLN 400 already from 1 July, and these funds will be transferred to the voivodships. And medical paramedics will receive additional resources now, regardless of this bill. So that I think that these actions of the current government towards workers, the regulation of their salaries should be appreciated because they are clearly and clearly recognised by the health protection environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u52	I don't see any more people reporting. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ministers! Dear guests! The Americans say that for everything there is a season, there is a time for everything. As you know, the pressure on wage increases in the health sector from time to time is slightly lower, sometimes slightly higher. There's one thing to say right now: she's huge. And the worst part is, the government has raised hopes. Prime Minister Szydło in her exposé said that doctors, health professionals must earn decently, and aroused the hope that, in a situation where we survived the crisis, when the economy is booming and there are such words that the budget has surplus and the deficit is falling, there will finally be money for increases in health care. Meanwhile, the government spends, with the hands of PZU, PLN 6.5 billion on the purchase of shares of Pekao SA, although it has basically full control over this bank, and a few hundred million are missing for increases for health professionals. This bill was extremely expected. In general, 437 000 people work in health care and 250 000 have signed up to a civil project that proposes factors that are satisfactory for workers. This was seen as a starting point for discussion and, in the meantime, this discussion was not undertaken by the government. The Marshal delayed the debate on this important bill by a week, giving the government a chance to try to refine even a micro-compromise. We hear there's no compromise, everything stays the same. Well, that's not how you do it. In addition, we create conflict fields because we know here, there are surgeons in this room. That a great surgeon will do a great surgery, but if the OR doesn't clean up the O.R. well, then this sick guy won't be doing well, he'll heal properly. Meanwhile, those saloons, accountants, administrative staff or those who cut their lawns in front of hospitals are completely excluded from this regulation. Imagine what's going to happen in hospitals when there's a rumor that white staff is going to get God knows what raises, even though they're on a micro scale, and some workers are not going to get them at all. It's gonna be a disaster. In addition, outside the residents for which the resort pays and provided the funds for it The directors are to pay for this. Just a question: from what? The debt of hospitals goes back to several billion, and it started to decrease slowly, but it's going to be history in a minute because it's going to start to grow slowly. Young doctors, residents, their agreement, especially they expected a real increase. Meanwhile, they were deeply disappointed. I know this through both personal contacts and letters, emails, conversations. It turns out that their increases will only reach this level around 2021. It's like this, ladies and gentlemen, as if on the Ministry's building hang a banner of young doctors, leave. I am a senator from Szczecin and I know that there are already jobs for young people on the German side of Odra: 1 thousand 200 euros for residents, money for development, money for language learning. You can live in Szczecin because the hospital can be reached in less than an hour. The higher income for hospitals is to come from the NFZ. But the NFZ is to be terminated. We're supposed to do everything in the roar. It's inconsistent. The citizens' project comes back to this. Nearly 250,000 people supported the project. It's like there's a few million signatures about education. Because there are 437,000 people working in the system, and 250,000 signed. Unfortunately, this voice has been omitted so as not to use the word "disregarded." We are to educate doctors, only that if we reward them so much, we will become a doctor's factory for Europe. 'Cause they're gonna get more interesting job offers right now. The problem is, of course, broader in nature, because Poland, in terms of the strength of GDP, is in eighth place in Europe and in terms of the proportion of GDP allocated to health. On the twenty-fourth. And that's bad. Because we don't value health protection as an important branch of the national economy. We do not value health protection as one of the pillars of a modern state. And we need to change that with Parliament's forces. Because, as you can see, the Minister of Health after talking to the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Development obtained zero. He didn't do anything. The environment expected this week to bring at least a little improvement. Nothing. Zero. That's a tough attitude. I'm afraid that's going to come up with an extremely negative social reaction. And that is why, listening to the voice of the citizens, listening to those who have signed 250 000 signatures under the citizens' project, we propose this as an amendment to change these labour factors according to the factors given in the citizens' project and to take additional account of all health workers according to the following factors: for those with primary education I do not have to add that the calculations come from 2015, when the national average was PLN 3 000 900. This is also incomprehensible, because the national average is known and this year it is exceeding 4 thousand PLN. Maybe it's worth counting on the current national average. I'm summing up. The government has raised enormous hopes in the environment. These hopes have not even been met to the slightest extent. I'm afraid it will have negative social consequences. Therefore, I would ask that the High Chamber of our Parliament seriously lean on the amendments we have tabled, so that it will take this as another time to negotiate, in order to come up with a solution which, although to a minimum, will satisfy the entire Polish health system. Otherwise, things are gonna get out of hand. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u54	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Bear. Mr. Senator, these corrections... [[Got it, got it, got it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As I am a person who has also signed the amendments tabled by Senator Grodzki, I would also like to present my position. This position will mainly concern nurses and midwives, because with this professional group at home in the district or in the voivodship I met many times, we talked about their topics. Of course, one of the main topics is the topic of salary, but not just him, because we also talked about working conditions, working time, etc. And I have to say that the proposed measure of 0.64 for nurses and unspecialized nurses... And in this group there may be nurses and midwives with a professional master's degree, with a professional bachelor's degree, but also those who do not have a higher education. This coefficient of 0.64 at the accepted base amount of PLN 3 000 900 gives a net amount of PLN 1 thousand 685, so we can say that for the profession of nurse and located it is a very low salary, because it is one of the hardest professions in terms of both mental and physical burdens. It is worth recalling that over the next five years, about 80,000 nurses will be entitled to retirement, and in view of this low salary, probably these nurses and midwives will retire. So the question is: who will fill the gap? Who's gonna replace these nurses, these 80,000 nurses, if they're really getting fewer and fewer people? And if there are already people who graduate from higher education, they go abroad to a large extent, where wages are several times higher. In the Ministry of Health, a team was set up to develop strategies for the development of nursing and obstetrics, so it would seem that the health department notes this problem, which will develop over the next few years. But there's a factor in the draft law. 0.64, and that does not suggest that the solution to this problem should take any real shape. You might think that in the coming years we will have a huge shortage of nurses and locals. It can be assumed that this will cause a breakdown in the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u56	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about what needs to be done to improve the prestige of many professions, including medical, medical, nursing professions, one must say that among many different activities one is the most important one that attracts to the profession or acts the other way around, causes young people not to get caught up in this profession. It's a question of salary. In order to completely avoid political discussion, I will say this: the issue of wages, especially in health care, is a difficult subject and cannot be resolved quickly, suddenly, briefly and with large budgetary expenditures. And what is important in all kinds of activities? It's to create a program that gives some hope and perspective. And in our assessment, as well as in the assessment of the social factor that expressed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski, you've always had a lot to say, but there's a request... Because then the minister will have to read the transcript to find out what we have to say as senators. [[The Minister was just talking about your speech.]] The idea is to create elements of hope and attraction. If we look at statistics that have been going on for at least 20 years, for at least 25, 26, 27 or almost 30 years, it doesn't improve as far as the number of doctors per thousand patients or residents is concerned... Nor is the number of nurses improved because according to statistics, there are 5.8 nurses in Poland, and besides what is also important, the average age of nurses increases from 46 to 56 years. I will also say that more nurses per 1,000 patients have countries such as Belarus and Ukraine. If we look at medical records, we'll see that we have 2.2 out of 1,000 inhabitants, Greece has 6 and Germany has 4. Therefore, the element of wages and policies in this area, forward-looking policy, not annual, is very, very important. Therefore, together with Senator Biesiołek, with Senator Grodzki, we have signed the proposal for this social proposal to give them a chance, in connection with the arrival of the wave of young people in the coming years, to see that there are prospects in such professions as nurses, midwives, doctors. We are making this request, hoping, Minister, to reflect. And we don't care... After all, it can also be extended, it may take longer to think about it, because it is not just about 2017 or 2018, but about creating a perspective on the size of the investments. If, in the context of what Senator Bear said, we look at a table showing the current differences between nurses who have a higher education and those who don't have it... Of course, I am also in favour of every nurse in Poland having a higher education, this is an element that should also be paid attention to, but let's implement it in the long term. After all, today is not the case that you can say that all nurses who have tremendous experience are worse than nurses who have a 2-year internship and a higher education. Such matters should be looked at once again, listened to decisions, apologies, or suggestions from the social side, and taken into account. Also because there is such a situation today, as Senator Grodzki said, that such a good economic situation and good budgetary position is as we hear and read about. We haven't had one in a long time. Therefore, this is the moment when we should answer the question: do we want to encourage young people to come to this profession, do we want to improve their pay in health care, or do we want to pretend that we are doing something? Reading about 20 or even 40 billion PLN, as it is said, surplus or deficit reduction at the end of 2017, good prospects for the European economy, including for the Polish economy... Please consider I appeal to the Minister once again. What the social side proposes, so that the prospect of reaching a decent remuneration of these environments can be brought closer, given the economic prosperity in Europe and Poland. Once again, I am not saying that this should be done in 2018 or 2017, but it is necessary to create such a perspective that people who graduate from high school also say: yes, we choose medical professions, because apart from the fact that this is the area that we like, love, they also pay well. And that, Minister, is what we appeal for. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u58	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister! I'm a little surprised by Senator Czarnobaj's words, but maybe it's a good thing that when PiS is in charge, the economy is developing very well and there are no crises in the world, so maybe we should spread it and let PiS rule for many years. But going to the point, I will say that we will not run away from politics in this House and I think that, as doctors, but also politicians, we must be aware that spending on health care should be much higher. And I think that we all sign up for this, and those who rule, and those who are in opposition, because we really stand aside from European countries, often smaller than ours, where these expenses are much bigger. And out of these resources, I'm sure there'd be money to raise salaries for health professionals. But you also have to look back at the previous 8 years when the country, the Platform Coalition PSL, which ruled, did not have the will to set up and introduce a minimum amount of remuneration for workers in the healthcare sector similar to that introduced by the Law and Justice in this term of office. Today you are tearing your robes apart, crying about the fact that Polish health care requires these increases. Well, that's a little hypocritical of you. I try never to expose it so politically, because I am a doctor and I try, as at the Health Committee's meeting, to always talk about it in substance, but here I have to say this: well, you were 8 years old, you did nothing in this direction, even though Prime Minister Tusk has repeatedly provided this in his exposé. I'm still a practicing doctor, I'm a surgeon, and I know that before I stand in the O.R. with a patient before surgery, in order to perform this surgery, many people have to do a lot of different jobs. Sometimes they're very specialized, sometimes less, but without them this operation wouldn't have happened. And we are aware that in addition to purely medical professionals, there is also a huge group of people who are sometimes invisible. We may not even be able to see them, but someone has to bring the patient to the O.R., someone has to change him, often bathe him. They're really anonymous workers sometimes, but they're actually building up the whole effect of our medical work, in my case. - Surgical work. That is why this amendment, tabled by the social side, by the solidarity side, welcome to the president, Maria Ochman And I'll be honest with you, as a doctor, she's also very close because I'm trying to appreciate not only doctors and nurses, these two leading groups, but definitely others. So, for my part, I can assure the president that I will continue to try to ensure that the salaries of those other people who are employed in health care and who do not have medical education, but will definitely increase. There is another issue that I think is worrying about when it comes to pay in health care. At the moment, there are terrible differences between earnings, e.g. I say this, even though I'm a doctor myself. ..and the lower staff. I don't think it should be in health care, either, that some people are practically drinking cream, and a dozen people have to work on it. This is definitely related to the lack of medical staff. The directors often employ doctors on very lucrative contracts, because they have no other choice if they want to ensure the operation of the branch, to provide a contract with the NFZ. They choose to do so, and this unfortunately has such an effect that, due to these very high medical appointments, the other workers often have to earn significantly less. That is why I call on you once again to adopt this law, because at least to the extent that at the moment... However, it guarantees an increase in minimum salaries in the health sector. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u60	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, in my speech, I tried completely not to raise the political thread, because he is completely unnecessary in such a discussion, Mr President. [[But we can't avoid it.]] I know we're not gonna avoid this, so... the chairman of the committee has raised a few points, so I just have to answer, because my name is here. First of all, I didn't claim or claim And if such a request was made by the senator from my statement, it is slightly wrong that the economic development of Poland is directly proportional to the length of the rule of law and justice. I absolutely didn't think or think. And it's been too long to judge why... It's not worth thinking like that, because it's the way to nowhere. I, in order not to touch the Polish thread anymore, because I think that we are about to bring out heavy guns here, I will give examples of other countries. The Italian economy developed best when the government completely did not interfere with it. Every three months, governments changed, and then the economy grew faster because the government did not have time to deal with it. So the less government interferes with the economy and creates a stable law, the better the economy develops. If the Government of Law and Justice will create a stable political situation and the surroundings will develop, Poland has no chance of not developing. I also want to say that what is development... I'm not talking about Poland anymore, I'm just learning. If we're talking about four. - Five. - or a six-percent increase in GDP, this, Mr President, cannot be done from year to year. So the growth is at 5%. or 6%, it takes at least 4 or 5 years of preparation, working to make the economy grow. If we go back to the economic situation during these 8 years of hypocrisy, as the President said, I will say briefly: it is a completely incomparable economic situation in the world and in Europe; Poland is so integrated with Europe and the world that it can only spoil its economy if the European economy is developing. And I would also like to say what concerns the medical community, Mr President. Once there was a situation where doctors protested for a year in Israel to improve their material situation. And that was the year in which there was the slightest mortality and the least of the different types of complications. That is why it is not very elegant to make such proposals as you have put forward. I can also use other examples of misinterpretation of my words. And finally. Mr. Chairman... Because Mr President mentioned the president and himself. You said that you would support the pursuit of improving the material situation of medical, nursing, Polish health care environments. I'm gonna say I'm gonna join you, too, and I'm gonna be with you if you let me. But I want to say this: let's be together, it is enough that you will vote not for our proposal, but for the request of the social side and that we will push together to improve the material situation of people working in Polish health care. And that's what I'm calling for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u62	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: together the senators Tomasz Grodzki, Andrzej Misiołek, Leszek Czarnobaj and Jan Rulewski and Senator Jan Rulewski separately. The discussion is closed. Let me inform you that the vote... No. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u63	Mr. Marshal... [[Minister, come here. Come on up to the podium.]] Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to answer the specific questions that have been raised during your speech. Namely, the first question once again referred to the sources of coverage of this regulation. In the first part of my speech, I presented in detail what the increase in the income of the NFZ will be and how the funds will be allocated over the years to the increase in salaries. I would also like to comment on the statement on the liquidation of the NFZ and on this in your assessment of the danger or the threat of continuity of funding for this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, if the NFZ is wound up... As I said, at the moment a draft law on the National Health Service is being created in the Ministry of Health, which provides for, among other things, for. The liquidation of this institution, but also, most importantly, provides for an increase in funding, an increase in health expenditure. You've talked about this many times here. Indeed, the Minister of Health agrees with your opinion that the current expenditures that are spent on health protection in Poland are insufficient. Therefore, a draft law is being prepared to increase the financing of health care. We would like to see such a purpose in this project. In 2025, the appropriations for health protection should be around 6%. GDP. So this is a clear step towards increasing the resources allocated to this sector. As regards the issue of the remuneration of nurses and individuals from particular categories, ladies and gentlemen, let us take into account even the minimum increases that we propose under this regulation. In the case of a professional group of nurses without specialization in a 5-year perspective, there will be an increase of about PLN 1 000. This is an increase of about 60% basic salary. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that the health care worker's salary consists of a basic salary as well as derivatives. In the case of medical professionals working in a shift system, derivatives account for more than 60% basic salary, so I think that operating at the amount of PLN 1 thousand 400 or PLN 1 thousand 600 net is not entirely appropriate. Well, it can also be considered that employees have different burdens, not only statutory ones, but also private ones, and these amounts may vary considerably, so we propose using the gross amount. This is an obvious increase. As regards intern doctors, Ladies and gentlemen, as of 2012, the intern doctor receives a basic salary of PLN 2 000 7 and we propose an increase of this salary to PLN 2 000 800. This is a clear increase in the remuneration of trainees. I realize that this is a far-fetched amount, but it is a clear increase in relation to what has been maintained for many, many years. In the case of nurses with specialization and with higher education, this increase is even more visible, because now ladies who come to the profession after graduating from their master's degree and after obtaining a specialization, collide with the proposal of PLN 2 000 200, PLN 2 000 300, PLN 2 000 400. After the entry into force of this regulation of the specialist... Because we care about these people the most. This bill is of this nature because we want to motivate health professionals to acquire specialization. I don't think we need to discuss here how important specific, specialised skills are when it comes to the delivery of benefits. And this bill is supposed to motivate that. The specialist nurse will have a minimum basic salary in 2021 I repeat: at least PLN 5,000 200. Currently it is the amount of approx. 2 000 200 PLN, 2 000 300 PLN, 2 000 400 PLN. Of course, there are higher wages, but that's the problem we're colliding with. This is a clear offer for those who want to improve their qualifications. There was also information that there was less and less willingness to be a nurse. I would like to fully discredit this information, because last year we saw a significant increase in those willing to train in the nursing profession. At our medical universities Where we have nursing departments, there aren't enough places. Two people applied, and even three in Silesia in one place. In this respect, we have asked the medical university rectors to consider the possibility of increasing the number of places in universities under their own resources, and we will also ask for an increase in the number of places in training for nurses. We also spoke to the Minister of Science and Higher Education, who oversees state higher vocational schools, so that he also considered the possibility of increasing the number of places in nursing schools. We are also talking about... Well, often in public space there are signals about a gross or very significant number of medical workers leaving for other countries of the European Union. Of course, the European Union gives us this opportunity. There is free movement of people, and therefore we have the right to choose, but I would like to give you concrete statistics. According to the General Medical Council, about 0.2% of specialist doctors left the country and started their practice in the countries of the European Union. On the other hand, as regards the number of nurses who left the country at that time, there were about 20,000 since the entry into the European Union, i.e. since 2004. So it's not mass. Information to be provided, that graduates of medical universities, especially undergraduates, are 50% cases report readiness to take up work in the profession, are not quite true. Some graduates simply take a second-level course, i.e. a Master's degree, and automatically do not register in nursing chambers as people willing to take up work. Some of the graduates had already had the right to pursue their profession, for example. in high school before entering the European Union. Statistics look a little different if we look at them very closely. So much for explaining. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u64	Thank you, Minister. There will be no more questions. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Anti-drugs Act and the Act on Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices. The text of the Act is contained in print No 536 and the report of the Commission In print No 536 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I have the honour to present to the High House, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Health, a report on the work of the committee on the amendment of the Anti-drug Act and the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods Specially for Nutrition and Medical Devices (Senatian Printing No. 536, Seym Printing No. 812, 812A and 1270), adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 22 June 2017. The Sejm passed this law at its forty-second meeting on 22 June. It is a parliamentary project. The main objective of the bill is to regulate the issue of medical authorisation of marijuana. According to art. Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 added to the Law of 29 July 2005 on the prevention of drug addiction to cannabis herb other than fibrous and extracts, pharmaceutical tinctures and all other extracts from hemp other than fibrous and hemp resin other than fibrous will be able to be used as a pharmaceutical raw material for the preparation of so-called. Recipes. The authorisation granted by the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products will be a condition for the marketing of this raw material. The law is laid down in Article. 33c elements of the application for authorisation and indicate the provisions of the Law on Pharmaceutical Law, which are applicable to the marketing authorisation procedure for pharmaceutical raw materials in the form of hemp herb other than fibrous material, art. 33b. 2. Added to the Law on Countering Drug Addiction Art. Paragraph 33c. 3 shall authorise the Minister for Health to specify in the Regulation the format of the application and the details of the data and list of documents covered by the application for authorisation of pharmaceutical raw materials for the preparation of prescription drugs in the form of hemp herb other than fibrous and extracts, pharmaceutical tinctures, other hemp extracts and hemp resin other than fibrous. According to the article added to the Act. 33d paragraph. 1 the manufacture of pharmaceutical raw materials has been divided. The proposal here is to divide into two stages. The first stage is the preparation of plant material as a source of the active substance intended for the manufacture of pharmaceutical raw materials. This means the fragmentation of dried parts of plants and the carrying out of physical and chemical operations leading to the extraction of substances, including extraction, and their packaging. The second step is the manufacture of the pharmaceutical raw material itself, which includes repacking the relevant substances from the packaging for packaging in which the raw material will be delivered to the pharmacies of Article. 33d paragraph. 3. It is important that the production of pharmaceutical raw materials does not mean cultivation of plants. This is important, because this was the point of the dispute around which long-term discussions took place. The adoption of the formula that cannabis herb and its pharmaceutical preparations can be pharmaceutical raw materials means that it can be used as a means for the production of medicines, which in turn means that it is subject to the criterion of general monograph according to the Polish Pharmacopei and European Pharmacopei and is subject to supervision by the chief pharmaceutical inspector. So it is ensured that this drug available in pharmacies will be safe for the patient. In addition, the Act amending the Act of 12 May 2011 on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices, prejudicing that prescription medicines prepared from pharmaceutical raw materials in the form of hemp herb other than fibrous and extracts, pharmaceutical tinctures, and all other extracts of hemp other than fibrous and hemp resin other than fibrous will not be covered by the refund. During the committee's meeting, the following questions were asked. What effect will the price of imported cannabis have on the final price of the medicine? Because according to this bill, we are exposed to forced import. Next question: will it be possible to purchase the quantity needed, or will it not be missing? Because when it comes to purchasing, we can import raw materials from basically three countries: the Netherlands, Israel and Turkey. And the last question I remembered: will it not be necessary to return to the issue of cannabis cultivation in Poland in the future? The answer, ladies and gentlemen, was basically one, namely: time will show. You have to give the bill time to function. If it turns out that these questions I've presented are the right ones and we'll have to go back... There are promises of a parliamentary majority that this law will be amended very quickly. The Health Committee asks the High House to adopt a law without amendment. This will make the bill quickly enter into force and act by helping cancer sufferers with chronic pain, who are suffering very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u66	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. You're welcome, Senator Jacek Włosowicz. [[Mr. Marshal, I wanted to enlist in the discussion, and that's why it's my call. I don't have a question.]] It's for discussion. Good. [[Thank you very much.]] Good. Then there are no questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Is the representative of the government, Minister Zbigniew the King, willing to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There's a question. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Minister, you're welcome to the podium. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if I understand correctly, it will not be possible to grow plants from which the substance used in this medicine is derived on the basis of this law and changes in the regulations. I'd like to know why this decision was made right now. Because we will therefore be forced to import raw materials into this drug, while it is actually possible not to pay for imports, just to produce. What were the basic reasons not to include it in this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u68	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The idea of not introducing this is a kind of compromise, as it were, a condition for the introduction of this preparation as a pharmaceutical raw material at all. Presuming that if we have production, then this drug will be cheaper, more accessible... This is possible, but when we have reasonably stabilized too much of this product. Meanwhile, as an analogy to the raw materials derived from high-morphine poppy... We can see that such production, although this is also possible, is not in Poland. Therefore, applying the current law in its entirety, from registration, through indications, the SmPC, ending with the availability in pharmacies, to speed up the procedure leading to the availability of this product, a cannaboid derivative to patients, we applied this mode, i.e. We suggested because the project is parliamentary. As a result of this compromise, we want to put it this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u70	You're welcome, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u71	I'd like to ask, because you said there's no production in the same way as poppy. But isn't this production in Poland because nobody wants to produce it and it's allowed, or isn't it because it's not allowed?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u72	The Pharmaceutical Law specifies how poppy production can be carried out, i.e. here it is allowed, as I say, with certain sharpenings. Here we did not want to introduce this in a situation where it is difficult to predict how many people, how many patients will use this medicine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u73	Thank you, Minister. Minister, I want to specify, so I have a question for you about this poppy. Is production allowed, or is breeding allowed? Is that the same thing?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u74	Growing is allowed. [[Growing?]] Yes, cultivation is allowed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u75	The crop is allowed under strict conditions. I have one more question. I'm talking about marijuana-based drugs because we're discussing it. How are they to be taken? Pills? Injection? I mean, will it also be allowed, let's assume, smoking marijuana cigarettes, this kind of situation. Because pills are for sure, and as for the injection, I don't know. If you could tell me what type it's gonna be, how it's gonna be taken, I'd ask for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u76	A specific product, this final product in the pharmacy will be indicated by Regulation at the time of registration of the preparation. Drying will be the basis for the preparation in the form of granules. Most likely they will be oily bodies, therefore preparation in the form of liquid, oral fluid or tablets will be the easiest. And we stand in the position that it is necessary to limit the burning of Poles, therefore we absolutely do not want to allow the preparation to be used, so to speak, inhaled in this form.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u77	Thank you. Senator Richard Majer is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Just a quick question. The law introduces drug regulations, a remedy, I'd say, sensitive. In your opinion, will the safeguards that appear in this legislation be sufficient to rule out any abuse of this substance? What do you think? Is it even possible to provide maximum protection against irregularities in the marketing of these measures?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u79	In the case of the records presented to you here, the safeguards are maximum. It seems that we secure it 100% on the basis of records of other narcotics preparations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u80	Thank you. Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, these drugs, at least in the early stages, are to be unrefundable. Yes? Did the government do any simulations and know how much a half-litre bottle of marijuana oil would cost? I ask because this is what patients most often buy on the Internet or import from abroad. What could be the cost in Polish zlotys?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u82	We didn't do simulations like this. We can refer to the prices of the preparations available at the moment, but I do not want to specially close the data here, because the price is set for the care population, the population in which these medicines will be used. The mechanism of action of the entity that will import these medicines, fix prices with it depending on the size of the sale and determine the margin... We haven't counted it yet. I'd probably go back to... I don't want to talk here... There is one preparation at a specified price. In order not to cause undue anxiety, it is only in this way that we can relate to this matter. I think that in this formula the preparation will be much more accessible than it is currently used.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u83	Minister, what is the price of this preparation right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u84	About PLN 2,000 per package. [[Half a liter?]] For 100 cc's. [[I know patients have bigger bottles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u85	Thank you. You could say it's pretty expensive. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zbigniew King: Yes. It's an expensive drug.]] Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u86	I'd like to ask you to apply. Is it just a preparation that somehow helps to endure, relieve pain, or does it have any healing properties? If so, what is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u88	It's a booster medicine, a medicine that doesn't cure cancer, but it relieves the pain of cancer-related diseases. It's basically a symptomatic drug.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u89	There you go. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u90	Does he have a therapeutic effect similar to morphine?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u91	It is a medicine with similar effects on the central nervous system, but it has less pain than morphine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u92	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Research and discussions on the use of medicinal marijuana in the world and in Poland are ongoing and generate not only great emotions, but also high hopes. For many people this is the only hope for stopping the process of loss of health and life, and sometimes also the hope of remission of the disease. However, in addition to these positive or expected positive effects, marijuana-based substances contain a dangerous and highly addictive active substance, THC. That's why I don't think they can be as easily accessible as popular prescription medications. They require increased surveillance, as their dissemination in the event of uncontrolled marketing and non-medical use has dangerous effects on the health of a single person, as well as on the wider public, for example. by increasing crime. THC, which is confirmed by scientific research, is a dangerous drug that leads to addiction and causes mental disorders. Unfortunately, such cases of these substances have occurred in Poland recently, with negative, very tragic consequences. The case of Mr Mariusz L. from Gdansk, who killed his five-year-old daughter in 2016 after taking marijuana, may be an example. Also events from 3 years ago in Rakowiska in Lublin Voivodeship, where Kamil N. together with his friend or girlfriend killed his parents, are another such example. In view of the above, however, I believe that the health of Poles and the social interest require regulation which will prevent, or at least significantly impede, the application of these measures beyond the control of doctors and for non-medical purposes. Therefore, I propose an amendment to increase the supervision of the prescription for marijuana-containing products and the possibility for veterinarians to prescribe such prescriptions, because in the current legal state, the only guarantee of an unjustified dispensation of the medicine by the veterinarian is to issue a prescription in duplicate. In conclusion, the aim of this amendment is to introduce a strict monitoring of the use in medicine of marijuana-based preparations which are not authorised for normal marketing, in particular to issue them from the doctor's prescription to the so-called. Rpw recipes, which used to be pink recipes, used for medicines containing narcotics or psychotropic substances. The intention of the amendment is also to eliminate the possibility of prescription for substances containing marijuana by veterinarians. In my opinion, this is necessary because of the high risk of fraud and uncontrolled black market trade in marijuana-based substances. On behalf of Solidarna Polska, I submit this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will not hide the fact that I only speak because I deeply disagree with what Senator Włosowicz said. Well, first of all, I didn't accidentally ask you about morphine, which is many times, many times stronger drugs, and it's been in the drug catalog for a long time, and maybe it's time to start a stigmatizing speech or... maybe not stigmatizing, sorry, but questioning these regulations... Maybe we should start by analyzing whether, in fact, we are in some kind of trouble in relation to the turnover of morphine that applies to treatment. That's one thing. Bottom line, morphine, which is a much, much stronger drug, doesn't create such problems, as I know it. Secondly, Mr. Senator spoke of these two terrible cases of homicide. Senator, then we should stand here and say we're introducing abstinence. If you take into account the amount of crime, alcohol-related crimes, you'll see that criminology indicates that about half of the violence-related offences are alcohol-related. Marijuana on this one isn't statistically anything. And that can't be an argument for such a tightening of access to the drug you're talking about, because, I say, the social impact, when it comes to alcohol, it's a pyramid by a grain of sand when it comes to marijuana. In conversations, the experts stress that first of all, marijuana is less addictive, slower addictive than alcohol; secondly, when it comes to social consequences, everyone says that they are incomparable at all, I am not talking about the aggression of one who leads to crime anymore. But if you take into account the family problem, you'll see that statistics are incomparable at all. So eventually... If we were to follow this lead, we should talk about eliminating alcohol. And one last thing. Of course, it always is. You're absolutely right about that. There is a certain risk that there may be some abuse when it comes to supplying this medicine, e.g. not those who need it and who should be prescribed it, but a person who simply is a drug addict who needs it for a completely different reason... Of course, there is such a risk. Only in my opinion, if we put on the balance the suffering of people and the possibility of helping them in this way and, on the other hand, the possibility of using it for consumption, for pleasure, in fact, in my opinion, we should focus on how much this medicine can be done good. After all, we know that there are actually dozens of such drugs that are or can be abused, which are not classic drugs, in every pharmacy, if not dozens. We hear many times that young people discover that some drugs have side effects that are similar... And it's not just marijuana. There are drugs. I can't replace them right now, because like I said, I didn't prepare for this speech, but I know there are dozens or dozens of them that work the same or much worse. Therefore, all the characteristics that save lives should be classified as marijuana. So that I will vote against these amendments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u96	Thank you. The next speaker is Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Being in parliament for a few terms, I witnessed this tightening, it's the liberalisation of drug policy. They have always been pointed out by specialists either for this or for the opposite action. So that I think that each of us must use our own experience and above all our own judgment. The discussion on a marijuana-based medicinal product, of course, is shadowed by the fear that this would be the first step towards allowing the so-called "market." soft drugs, marijuana, hashish, so fear that this is the first step. But if it is actually an effective painkiller in very often extreme situations, although in really extreme situations it is already being used for a long time by another drug, so that those situations that are, are not yet final situations. And if this chemical relieves the pain without causing any serious side effects, long-term, it's worth going this way. I don't really understand. In particular, since this was the decision to allow for cannabis-based painkillers Why do we really need to reach for imported marijuana from Israel, the Netherlands or some other direction? In several countries, marketing is already allowed There are such countries in South America, and some states in the United States have such opportunities. So this, of course, is also the direction from which the import will take place. But why not opt for cheaper solutions? Such a disbandment would be the possibility of growing in Poland. I think the state services are able to control such cultivation and control turnover. Of course, there will always be a gray crime zone, and there is today too. Police are also detecting breedings. It's already specialized in marijuana; but these are conducted against the law and it's, of course, being prosecuted. In any case, I believe that it is necessary to be consistent, i.e. there is no need to allow this product to be marketed while at the same time creating a situation in which its price will be a barrier price. I asked you how much this drug could cost. Well, 2,000 zlotys for a small amount, 100 ml or 150 ml? This is a very high price and few will be able to afford it. So poorer families will have a problem with his acquisition. So, without a problem, those who are better placed, families are better placed, and the poor will have a problem. So in this respect, the next step should be consistently taken. But I understand that there are concerns and that this law, even very limited, had so many critics, and that it is the result of a compromise between those who believe that marijuana and its derivative should absolutely not be allowed to trade, and those who believe that, however, here we should look for some new opportunities, especially in the context of oncology diseases. These diseases are already a plague in the world, in Poland too. Our friends, our families with these diseases are in contact. It's not a specific, rare disease right now, like 50 or 60 years ago. At the moment, oncology is common. Finally, about the danger of crime or the risk of some serious drug-related crime. Well, that's the situation, but... in Poland, as I recall, there are about 800 murders a year. Mostly they're so-called. Family murders, and most of these family murders, are done under the influence of alcohol. And that's the main problem. It's alcohol. But alcohol is allowed. No one is talking about banning alcohol, although it is the cause of very many misfortunes and serious crimes. As I say, much of these family murders are done under the influence of alcohol. I'd be against it, I'd say further restricting this bill, because then she'll lose sense. I call on the Ministry to, of course, monitor this new specificity and see what is the demand, what are the possibilities. However, we need to move towards creating production opportunities from domestic production. Why? That's what I said. It will be much cheaper, which in turn will not be meaningless for those who will have to use this product, which will be prescribed by doctors. Unfortunately, not everyone in Poland has equal financial opportunities, and such a situation varies in Poland's income and financial opportunities will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u98	Thank you. Now you have the floor, Senator Stanisławek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased and congratulate you on your courage to make this decision. A broad discussion earlier, a lot of opponents, constantly talking about a threat... It has nothing to do with the pharmacy. You must all realise that this is not access to any drugs. Trafficking in narcotic drugs is strictly regulated and there are special prescriptions for this. So that access to this medicine is not common, just as it is not a problem with other medicines from cannabis herb compared to other drugs. Doctors know how drugs work, they know how analgetic ladder works, and what drugs to prescribe. I have to tell you that I haven't met with abuse in so-called for so many years. Pink recipes. There was no court case... I haven't heard anything about doctors marketing fictitious prescriptions, and on this basis, someone's buying drugs. Well, I haven't seen it in so many years. I would like to stress that this is a huge hope for the sick who have just lost it or have not seen it. Very often it was emphasized that one of the effects of cannabis is the healing effect, and I think that if we can help even a small number of people with this drug, this drug, despite the various controversy that drugs cause, the drug trade... I'm glad we make that decision. Of course, I am a little worried, as were the previous Senators' speakers, about the lack of confidence in our ability to protect cannabis plantations. We have special schools at universities. I believe that closed university plantations could be considered or within the framework of the so-called. experimental fields. The police discover illegal cannabis plantations every once in a while, which means it's not that simple. And there are legal and illegal plantations all over the world. Congratulations again, Minister, on making such a decision. I'm very happy for her. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u100	Thank you, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! With the adoption of this law, I am convinced that we will accept it. The Ministry of Health is waiting, I think, to work on a good, smart social campaign on marijuana properties. In fact, when it comes to cancer, about the treatment of cancer pain, it is a symptomatic medicine. However, there are already many scientific works showing that this is also due to the experience of patients who have so far imported marijuana preparations, whether from the Czech Republic or other countries. It is important in the treatment of severe epilepsy in children. And that's where the healing function is involved. In view of the understandable fear of patients from pain, from death due to cancer and the myth of a miracle medicine that is somewhere abroad and is unavailable in Poland, so it is worth spending every penny to bring this medicine to their patients, we must campaign for society, because people in a situation where they are sick themselves, or when it comes to their families... ♪ It's time ♪ Even more difficult for families than for the sick, we all have such experiences. It's important to tell you then not to spend unnecessary amounts of money And it's gonna be expensive, and it's gonna cost you when we have cheap, good, effective morphine. I'm in favour of marijuana preparations too. Let them be, let the patient have a choice, because even the best campaign But it still has to be done. We're not gonna make it to all of them. Let the patient not feel that in Poland he is discriminated against, that in Poland he must pay for great money and sometimes still feel like a criminal, somewhere on the black market this drug is imported. Sensual treatment is also important in prolonging life. When we're using a series of opiates, which are painkillers, narcotics, whether it's morphine, whether it's synthetic morphine, whether it's marijuana or not. We doctors are aware that we lift the so-called pain. quality of life. Patients have better comfort of life and this prolongs their lives, sometimes very significantly, by several or several months. It happens more than that. We're not gonna make the patient a morphineist because his illness... We doctors know when to use morphine. Then, when we know that it will come closer to the term of life. And improving well-being is a better patient's appetite, it's a better dream, it's participation in family life, sometimes also in social life. That's a long way to go. Especially nutrition. But to keep it out of society with the introduction of this medicine into the use of such legal drugstores, prescription drugstores... To overthrow this myth that this is something wonderful, special, a drug that will save lives... Because it's not gonna happen. But this is not the time for questions. At the committee meeting, I will ask the Minister for the amendment that the senator has tabled concerning the veterinarians. I don't know if that's legal. Because if a veterinarian is a doctor, if he has the right to write prescriptions for drugs, then I don't know if we can stop him from writing prescriptions for marijuana. But I'm going to ask the Minister at the committee meeting because if there's an amendment, there's going to be a committee meeting, and that's important. So that I am calling here for a good, smart social campaign to be prepared in agreement with the public media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u102	Thank you, Senator. And I'd like you to take the floor of Senator Jack Włosowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Pociej and your Marshal called to answer, however, I would like to present my view. Mr. Senator, for example. It's been ages since... You referred to alcohol, let's take paper, and nicotine, let's get cigarettes and alcohol. At this stage of our civilization, we believe that cigarettes are harmful, even though they have been used for many centuries, and we do a lot, we spend a lot of money on reducing their consumption. Mr. Tomasz Grodzki, our colleague, an outstanding surgeon, from the lungs. I used to talk to him and he described to me exactly what the lungs of a person who smokes and what the consequences of that... I wouldn't want to replace him. Maybe there'll be an opportunity to listen to it, how sad and tragic it is. What an alcoholic's liver looks like, I can ask my colleague, Senator Kraska. We also do a lot today not only in Poland, but also in the world... As a specialist, of course. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I was scared.]] [[Grodzki smokes, Grodzki smokes...]] He's doing it professionally. We are spending a lot of resources, not just financial resources, on reducing the consumption of these substances. So that we can see that, of course, we're not going to ban it. What ended almost 100 years ago in the United States, we know. But we're trying to limit it. It's through rational campaigns. I'd like to give you another example. Let the senators take a look at the radioactive isotopes. We need them as much as possible. We use them in many areas of life. We use them in science, we use them in medicine, we use them in industry, in technology, and we can't imagine walking away from them right now, and nobody wants that. And what do we do when it comes to their distribution, their availability? She's particularly regulated. So in my opinion these examples show that if we have no problem with something, but maybe we have Despite all the positive effects this can bring This must be countered. I think if, let's assume, I have a little leak in my house and it's dripping over my head, then I have to do everything I can not drill a bigger hole on my own and it doesn't piss on my head with piss or buckets. As a result, my proposal is to ensure that there is no black market. And this is an area where, as you know, many people with conflict with the law specialize. So I hope that this law will help, not cause our law enforcement and justice authorities to have more and more work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u104	Thank you, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to reassure Senator Krasca right away that I didn't come here to see what the liver looks like after drinking alcohol. Mr. Senator, seriously. There is no dispute between us that neither of us wants to allow a situation where this law would allow, so to speak, the problem of using marijuana as a drug as a substance that is supposed to act as a drug. Unfortunately, I am afraid that your amendment will in turn lead to a baby being fired with a bath. And only because I said I would be opposed to tightening the bill. I accept your arguments and concerns, but I will repeat: while weighing on the balance, the suffering of many people on the one hand, and on the other hand the fears that exist, I repeat, not only with regard to marijuana, because the same could be said with regard to many, many medicines that we are not talking about in this Chamber at all, I will, as I said, be against this amendment. Having listened in turn to Senator Czudowska's statements, agreeing with them 100% Having heard the argument about access to the total of cheap morphine, it remains to me only once again to call for, however, to be able to produce in Poland this dried drug, based on marijuana, because I just hope that it will be much, much cheaper. And, as many studies indicate, marijuana is much less addictive, much slower than morphine, for example. And I think what we're talking about here is a step in the right direction: to treat, narrowing down the possibility of addictive patients. So, thank you very much and I am very pleased that the Ministry has supported and supported this project. And I appeal, like colleagues, to lean on the possibility of production in Poland. It is very possible that it must be, as Senator Stanisławek said earlier here, very restrictive, in some closed academic centers. But it should be in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u106	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Jacek Włosowicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No. [[At the committee meeting...]] Good. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The text of the Act is contained in print No 534, and the report of the Commission In print No 534 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Culture and Media on the Senate Act amending the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. Today, i.e. 28 June 2017, both committees have examined the Act and are requesting its adoption without amendment. In short, I would like to say that the Sejm adopted our law in principle without any amendments, but there were only editorial amendments. Which gives the Senate a very good opinion. Today, during the meeting of both committees, it was mentioned that the Russian Federation embassy was somewhat concerned about this law. It is mainly about whether the resting places of Soviet soldiers in the territory of the Republic will be properly respected. At the committee meeting, we recalled the provisions of the bill. Under no circumstances does the law apply to cemeteries or other burial sites. On the basis of it it is unacceptable to erect monuments or worship monuments that promote the totalitarian system. We also recalled that this concept of monuments includes mounds, obelisks, columns, sculptures, statues, busts, souvenir stones, plates, plaques, inscriptions and signs. The Act provides for exemption from this prohibition of monuments which are not exposed to public sight, monuments exhibited for purposes other than the promotion of the totalitarian system, inter alia. as part of artistic, educational, collector's, scientific or similar activities, monuments entered in the register of monuments, as well as monuments located, as I mentioned, in cemeteries or other resting places. In short, the point is not to have such scandalous facts as this. took place on 1 May this year in Dąbrowa Górnicza. Today's Newspaper Poland Daily reports about this. The Communist Party of Poland, known for promoting left-Marxist ideologies, as well as slandering the Soldiers of the Relentless, organized a shocking celebration on May 1. Namely in front of the statue of the Red Flags, because that is what he is now called, former banners, among others. with a sickle and a hammer, with the likes of Lenin. I would like to point out with regret that in this, one can say, provocative clown took part the president of the city, Zbigniew Podraza, who placed flowers in front of the monument dedicated to the Heroes of the Red Flags. It was outrageous behavior, in my opinion. As far as I know, the case has already gone to the D.A., and it's at the beginning of the diagnosis. Once again, I call on the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u108	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski reporting for questioning. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have two questions. The first concerns whether the information you have indicates that the Russian party represented by representatives of the embassy in Warsaw is satisfied and convinced that according to what is written in the law, the issue of burials and cemeteries is in fact excluded from the jurisdiction of this law. And that's my first question. And second question. Please remind the public, who is listening to us right now, what time it will be to remove these symbols from public space. I'm asking you this by referring, among other things. to the situation in my constituency. Well, in one of the municipalities in northern Mazowsze there is a board on the seat of the municipality, which promotes the so-called. Folk power fixers. My conversations with the governor ended with assurances that it would be removed on the occasion of the renovation of the building, because of the cost of taking it off, and then that on the occasion of the next renovation, because there was already some renovation of the facade. And it turns out that this board was hanging, hanging and still hanging. So now I have a question: what will be the procedure for such situations? I believe that each of your senators could point out this kind of situation in the area of their constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u110	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u111	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as far as the Russian embassy is concerned, we know that we have received a letter from the ambassador. We do not have the answers, but even at a meeting which was broadcast online, the chairman of the committee turned this way to all those who might be concerned about what the law is implementing. Absolutely in the bill is a guarantee, as I said earlier, that the resting places of the Red Army soldiers, the Soviet soldiers who are in the territory of the Republic, will continue to be as they are at the moment. They are cared for and nothing changes here. As for the deadline, after the entry into force of the law, we will have a year to remove all of this kind, saying quotes, souvenirs after the totalitarian, communist system. This will, of course, be done, as the Act says, with the consent of the IPN. I think such monuments as the monument to the heroes of the Red Flags in Dąbrowa Górnicza should disappear very quickly from public space. And on his couch, massive and serious, maybe there will appear some, so to speak, a symbol of the independent Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u112	Thank you. Senator Comfort. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u113	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna start with some technical attention. The senator is the rapporteur of the committee, but you did not really speak in your report about what was going on at the committee meeting, but made quite a general ideological speech, which I think should be in the final statements. That's a point. I also have a practical question. I'm not that strong... This is a reservation concerning my question: I would not like to be a supporter of a very strong historical policy, because it always sends us, at least in my opinion, today and makes opportunities uncomfortable. Because it's just like marriage: if we talk about the past all the time, it's pretty hard to figure out what to do to make things better. So I'd like to ask you something. Very often over the last 2 years, many senators from two sides of the political scene have been present here, in this room, about the scale of the UPA crime on the Polish nation. We were talking a lot about Volyn the other day. Now there's the case of Walter's monument, who died in the fight against the UPA. There is no doubt that Walter is, so to speak, a very exemplary copy of what the Professor Senator said earlier. That's the kind of symbol you want to fight this bill with. At the same time, there is no doubt that he fought and died... I'm putting aside speculation about whether it was an internal coup or not. As far as we know, he was killed in a UPA ambush. How do you plan on decomposing these two problems? I ask because there is no doubt that there are Poles in that area today who, unfortunately, worship his memory.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u114	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We didn't talk about it at the committee meeting, but if you want my opinion on the bandit Świerczewski, we'll have coffee. [[Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Senator. I'd love to make an appointment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u116	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. I was a little surprised by what you said about the Russian ambassador's letter. Was it a letter to the committee, to the committee chairman or to the Senate marshal? Who was the letter to? I'm asking because the ambassador's letters are going through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Can you answer that? I'm asking because I'm surprised. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd do my friend's job, because he's a little misconstrued.]] I'm afraid so, Senator. You can do it, but in your speech, if the senator can't answer. [[I'd just straighten it out.]] [[He's the applicant, so he can explain...]] Oh, you're the applicant's representative. [[Yes.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u117	Mr. Marshal, you've made a mistake. It was our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, hearing about concerns presented by the Russian party, that proposed a meeting to clarify the purpose of the bill. An invitation to the Russian embassy went out yesterday. The ambassador was supposed to be at the meeting today, but we got a letter saying he wasn't coming because he wasn't prepared or something. That's the situation. It wasn't an initiative... [[I see. Everything checks out, except for the ambassador's letter.]] The Russian side wasn't the initiator at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u118	Thank you very much for your explanation. Senator Comforter's been here before. Now, Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u119	Short, technical question. On the Holy Góra of Anna there is a very monumental monument of the Silesian insurgents by Xawery Dunikowski. On one part of this monument is a soldier with a flag depicting a sickle and a hammer. Will the liquidation apply only to this part of the monument? Will there be total destruction of the monument? How about we cuff a hook and a hammer?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u120	There's gonna be a lot of questions like that. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u121	That's a very interesting question. I think today, when the president of the Institute of National Remembrance is here, Mr. Sharek, you can ask him that question. It will be up to the Institute of National Remembrance to settle such very difficult matters. There is no doubt that this will not be an easy matter to resolve.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u122	I'd have a question for you, too. Of course, there are some questions that the senator is unable to answer. There's also a Hasior installation under New... [[At the New Fair.]] ...a barge dedicated to the fallen in the struggle to consolidate the people's power... [[She was supposed to play...]] Yeah, yeah. And there's gonna be more of that. But, of course, I propose that you ask the President of the IPN, because he will have to make specific decisions. [[Maybe not him personally, but the college.]] Yes. Senator Mammoths. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to remind you that earlier, in committee meetings, it was different with the support of this law. Sometimes members of the Civic Platform did not vote at all, sometimes they had very different opinions. Now I would like to know how the committee was today and how the vote was going.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u124	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u125	Senator, the whole room unanimously adopted this report, together with a proposal to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u126	Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, here's my question: how's this gonna work with internal roads? Because I understand that right now, to change the name of the inner road... If someone owns the property, e.g. on some housing estate or something, and it's so-called. internal road, this is the consent of the owner of this property, that is, this street, is not necessary to change its name. I understand that's how it's written today. Please confirm this because it will facilitate the procedure, the handling of such situations.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u129	Well, that was also a problem when we tried this bill, and that's how we decided it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u130	Good. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the Senate. Would a government representative like to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Magdalena Gawin is here... Yes? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Minister, I see that there are questions, so that I would ask you to speak. Because right now... At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: But, Mr. Marshal...]] I'm sorry, just press the button, because I can't hear you. And talk to the mike. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: I would just like to draw attention, Mr Marshal, that this bill is not prepared by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, so I should not answer questions.]] No, no, Minister, no matter who prepared this bill, you are a representative of the government, and they will be asking you a question. So why don't you... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Even if the bill was an initiative...?]] And you can't back down. There you go. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: No, no, no...]] I'm the one who would ask you here. Senator Jackowski wants to ask the Minister a question. And what I'm trying to say is that he's not the opposition senator, so... And who else? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u131	I think that the Minister is absolutely not afraid of my question, as an outstanding expert in the issue that he is dealing with within the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. I was actually interested in this case of Mr. Hasior's installation. And I'm sure the minister will be asked. Not only by parliamentarians, but also by e.g. by journalists It's about what to do in situations like this. Because this is actually an interesting case. The case in which we are dealing with an evident work of art or some outstanding installation. And this may not only apply to Mr. Hasior's work, but also to other artists... [[What outstanding? Man!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no, I wouldn't want us to hail here... [[Let's not discuss whether it's a work of art or not, because...]] I'll correct: if we're dealing with a work of art that is considered a work of art... [[Oh, yes, it is.]] ...then what would be the ministry's position on this matter? I know that the Ministry is not involved in the decision-making process It's the responsibility of the Institute of National Remembrance, so that's the kind of question your colleagues will ask for sure to the president. But I am interested in the opinion of the Minister as a general conservator and as a prominent expert on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u132	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u133	Thank you very much. I think that's a very valid question. Indeed, it seems to me that the problems that are related to the law lie not in the law itself, but in preparation for the implementation of this law. It seems to me that in Poland we need such a place, because the museum in Kozłówka, which exists and which can accept such objects, is very small. I know that because for the last three months I've been doing this kind of reconnaissance, and in the case of the reception of monuments that have very large dimensions, the museum refuses, they say they just don't have so much physical space. So that there is certainly a huge need to find a place where these monuments will be possible. Move. The senator asked. That's how I felt about it. What to do with monuments, which are the work of famous artists and which are entered in the register of monuments. This is indeed a problem, and I believe that this solution should be applied in such a situation. So you can just move these monuments to some museum that's gonna take them, and then they're gonna be in the inventory. And since, according to the Monument Protection and Monument Care Act, the same object cannot be entered simultaneously in the museum inventory and in the register, then such an object can be deleted from the register because it is already in the inventory. And that, in my opinion, is the best course of action. Indeed, the senator is absolutely right that there are objects that have been created by some outstanding creators, so we can solve it this way. But this is probably not a question that we would have to deal with at the level of the law, but it is a matter of rather certain implementation of this law, preparing for its implementation. I believe that this is the great role of the Institute of National Remembrance to make this road more expensive, but it is legally possible, as I have already said.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u134	There you go. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I could find another way here, because the bill gives you this... Namely, the point is that the monument rules do not apply when a given object, the monument has been exposed to public view as part of the artistic activity. This is a limitation and here some of these monuments, e.g. Monument of Dunikowski on the Holy Góra of Anna, in my opinion, is located in this area. There, the sickle and the hammer have other meanings. This monument was exhibited in honor of the Silesian insurgents, and the sickle and hammer are certainly not an element to promote the communist system, certainly not, not these times, not this era. I have another question. Well, the Minister, the Minister for Culture and National Heritage, will be a higher authority than the voivodship in the proceedings, i.e. you will find cases that... Suppose the landlord, or municipality, is most likely to be a municipality, because these are public areas. It doesn't want to be dealt with because the local community says no, no, because it doesn't, because for example. the monument does not promote communism or another totalitarian system. The IPN will find that yes, it promotes and should be removed. And there will be a difference of opinion, so you will settle this dispute. So that you have to have some sort of opinion on this right now. And I have a question: what will you do then? What's it gonna be, I don't know what to call it, the main line, in quotes... [[Voice from the courtroom: The case-laws.]] ...the case-law, which is actually your decision to make in this regard? And a second question about it. Well, in the bill... I don't know if there's an I.P.N. representative in the room... He's not here, is he, Marshal? There isn't. Well, unfortunately, the Minister is dropping the answer to that question until a representative arrives today... Well, Minister, there's no definition of a different totalitarian system. And there are areas in Poland... This area is certainly Opole region, in terms of issues related to German issues. Such a region is Podkarpacie, where we are dealing with probably even more sensitive, because fresher issues of the Volyn tragedy and insolent attempts to honor those who caused this tragedy, who were the authors of genocide against Poles, honoring these people. The ones who behaved differently in Volhynia, East Małopolska... Tell me about it, because there is no definition of totalitarian system other than communism. How are you gonna handle this? Shouldn't this be specified in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u136	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u137	Mr. Senator, why don't I start with the other one. I would just like to stress that there is really a problem with commemoration in Poland. UPA, except these memorials aren't legal, so they're removed not on a totalitarian basis or, I don't know, some kind of genocide promotion, just because... For even purely legal reasons, they simply arose in Poland without any consent and... So that's a slightly different scope of action. I think if you're asking the criteria according to which... Because the minister really... That's chapter two. 3: A higher-level body within the meaning of the Law of 14 June 1960, K.p.a. in relation to the voivodship in cases for the removal of the monument, the minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection shall be the minister. And now the question was... Can you rephrase that first question so I can answer it precisely?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u138	What criteria will you follow, in particular when there is no definition of another totalitarian system in the act and there are no clearly specified elements of it, please note, this is, in my opinion, a second kind of gap, and in the case of monuments it is particularly important, because in the case of the name not Which shouldn't be in the exterior decoration of the monument? 'Cause then you could tell whether this monument promotes or doesn't promote... May I remind you, because you are not on the subject... Well, there was a discussion through Opole whether the Iron Cross promotes Nazism or fascism or not, and some tried to tell us that the Iron Cross was the same. It's a much older award, even before World War I, so for them it doesn't promote... It's the same as swastika, it actually appears in Hindu symbolism. And that's why I have this question, because the bill is incomplete to some extent and the interpretation of such an incomplete text will fall on the IPN, and then the ricochet, as an appeal body, you will be struggling with it... What do you think? Should it be detailed or left to you, and you will struggle with it?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u139	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator, first of all, I will repeat once again that in the history of Poland there were no legal commemorations of Ukrainian nationalists who committed crimes in Volyn. These commemorations were illegal in nature and can be removed as such. Second, when it comes to totalitarian systems, I think we understand it well, also in the Constitution that it is... it includes both Nazi and communist commemorations. The Communist here is actually paying more attention, but it only follows that we had a lot of these commemorations. Even during the period of the Polish People's Republic, there could be no commemoration of Nazis, and communist ones could. So it just follows, I'd say, from life, well, from such observation of everyday life... It seems to me that when it comes to the rule that we have to disable certain things done for culture, it is simply to avoid absurd situations that the theatrical art, which talks about the times of communism, cannot be challenged as promoting communism. This recipe is a cover rule so that it doesn't go too far so that this bill doesn't turn into a parody. As the senator himself noted, these symbols that we think of, and rightly so, with Nazism, have much older pedigrees, but it is about how they have been saturated with content. I think we all agree that we treat them in the way they functioned in the 20th century, when the Third Reich gave them a certain character and meaning. I think it would be really good if, however, you took the floor of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, because he is the first body that initiates the whole process, and the Institute of National Remembrance should definitely develop some criteria. Except I don't think... I would be opposed to defining totalitarian systems at the level of this law and specifying them. In fact, we are talking about Nazism and communism, and of course we are talking about genocide in Volyn, but genocide in Volyn was not due to totalitarianism, it had a completely different character. Now I'm talking as a historian. So that I think these are the questions that should be answered primarily by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. These issues should be dealt with in some way. I think we're gonna have to deal with all kinds of memorials. Here, the senator rightly pointed out a fragment of the monument that contains an element... I don't know, the promotion of communism... And that is why each of these monuments, I believe, will be treated individually by the Institute of National Remembrance. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u141	Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Thank you.]] Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u142	Thank you. [[Senator Jackowski isn't here, is he?]] Although this question is not directly addressed to the Ministry of Culture, it has happened that there is no one here from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the matter of this letter has already arisen and the expected visit, which was also mentioned at the committee meeting. Then, unfortunately, you will be the victim of a difficult question. Namely, that... This law, as rightly as possible, even by calling for a ban on the promotion of communism and other totalitarian systems, is, however, also affecting past matters, which are irresistible from history and are recognized by the world in the fight against fascism as a sign of positive alliedity. Alliedism understood so that the Soviet Union... that the Red Army participated as an ally, i.e. Poland next to Soviet Russia and Russia next to Poland. In addition, military agreements were concluded in the fight against totalitarianism. And here's the question: how will the government get out... Therefore, does the government accept the end of the Soviet alliance with Poland? How will he explain to young people the facts about the struggle during World War II and at the same time remove the signs or symbols of this participation, this alliedity?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u143	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I could turn this question the other way, which means Nazism was fighting communism... Are we to treat Nazism better? I think that the tragedy of the 20th century was that two totalitarian states were struggling and that unfortunately the world of the West had to ally with one of these countries in order to defeat the other. And that, in my opinion, is a part of this legacy of the 20th century, but that does not mean that today we are to deny the the thesis of Hannah Arendt that there were two totalitarians: communist and Nazi. These are perfectly understandable things to me, redheads. I think that the West of Europe treats communism more gently because it has not experienced it, these countries were simply not occupied by the Soviet Union, were not then dominated, and from here comes a certain asymmetry of memory. However, on the basis of historical diagnosis, the diagnosis of these facts is unchangeable, there were two totalitarian states and Joseph Stalin is regarded, and rightly, as a war criminal, as one of the greatest criminals in human history, and that is all I can say. I mean, I don't see any dilemma here. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u145	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u146	I don't see any dilemma here either, and just because one totalitarian fights another doesn't mean that one should worship. [[But Poland is and was impartial...]] Of course, I understand... the Sikorski system. The Malay, yes, was, but then he was broken up by... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Soviets.]] ...the Soviet Union, after the discovery of the Katyn crime, by the Germans, by another totalitarianism, but... Minister, I agree with you, of course... I want to ask if you were at the World War II Museum in Gdansk, because there are these two totalitarianisms shown as if in a mirror system... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Is it OK?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u147	Mr. Senator, as soon as I finish UNESCO, it ends July 12th, and I'm going to visit the World War II Museum. We are very busy right now, this is the biggest cultural event at the intergovernmental level we have been dealing with over the last decades. I will say this: it seems to me that the very important role of Poland is just what you were talking about, i.e. to promote this vision of 2 totalitarianisms. Today's narration in the West clearly... Even the term "totalitarianism" is not used at all. Today, a much milder word comes into the language of the rule, which, I would say, suggests a much lower mass responsibility of the nations and which simply axiologically and for all other reasons means something completely different. And the two totalitarianisms mentioned above, which is the approach of Hannah Arendt, which I was just talking about at the very beginning... It is used very rarely in Western Europe today. So it seems to me that it is very important that Poles remind about this issue. Also because we do not have to specifically theorize, because Poland has actually been attacked by its neighbours, totalitarian Soviets and Germany in 1939, as one of the few, very few countries fought against Germany in the region since 1939 and has not cooperated at the level of either political party, state or army with any of these countries. Of course, there was a problem of collaboration, as always occurs in occupied countries, but it was an individual problem. And we should talk about it very loudly and very firmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u148	Mr. Marshal continues. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u149	I totally agree with the Minister. I'm a little afraid to say it, but I totally agree with that interpretation. But does the Minister realise that the hysteria that is taking place in Russia must be prevented? Last week, Rossija 24 was shown very extensively on news TV for 2 days and it was said that ungrateful Poles destroy monuments of Soviet soldiers. It doesn't really matter to us when it comes to our society, but there in Russia, it's accepted as... There is simply an attempt to make such an anti-Polish thesis that Poles are genetically anti-Russian. And therefore, whether your ministry, or perhaps you know whether this letter here was such a good move They're gonna try to counteract that kind of thing?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u150	Mr. Marshal, I will answer this question: I think that at the moment every excuse that serves in Putin's Russia to turn against Poland is being used. We can't control it, we can't stop it, it's created beyond us. And I don't really see the possibility of affecting Russia at all. But I remember that there were probably two meetings devoted to these commemorations, but also for example. War cemeteries. So I would just like to assure you that Poland adheres to the agreement, we care about war cemeteries and there are no monuments destroyed, they are regularly cleansed. We can distinguish between the dimension of the death of a Russian soldier and the promotion of communism. And it seems to me very important and important to remind you that Poland respects war cemeteries, but it does not agree to the promotion of communism in Poland. I can only say... And I very much appeal to all of your senators that such a museum that we really need, perhaps bigger than Kozłówka, with a larger area that could accommodate these sometimes very large, huge commemorations of NKVD and UB... So they can be transported there. It seems to me that in some long-term perspective they may also be teaching material... [[God's spirit would be freed by the guilty Kozłówka.]] ...because after a few decades we can show them to students to show how Poland was saturated with such monuments and how propaganda was conducted. For this bill to work, we have to have a place like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u151	Senator Borusewicz, Mr. Marshal continues. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u152	Minister, I know what Putin's Russian policy is. You're right about that. But that doesn't mean we should agree on all of this. My question was whether the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had any counter-actions towards Russia in Russia. You can come up with things like this. In connection with the Russian cemeteries... the Red Army cemeteries. The Russians aren't the only ones lying there. Most people are buried there anonymously. Would it be possible to think about going in that direction? There is a Memorial in Russia, with which we have very good experience. There's a great organization there. I would appeal to think about how to take action to show that this is not about destroying the cemeteries of Soviet or Russian soldiers. That's all. I'm not gonna ask any more questions. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: One more sentence, if I may.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u153	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u154	Thank you very much. I'd like to say one thing. It seems to me that this is a broader problem related to how we talk about Poland's history, how we should talk about it. I met with the charges... I am talking about the Center for Research on Totalitarianism and the new program, which consists in obtaining certificates submitted to the Main Commission for Investigation of Hitler's Crimes. I will remind you that Poland has probably the largest collection of this kind. The collection of certificates is estimated at about 100,000 documents relating to German crimes. They are distributed in a very large number of procedural files. Let me give you an example: in the case of the Ludwig Fischer trial there are over 100 volumes, each volume has over 100 pages, and in one volume there may be 2 statements, but there may be 40 of them. It's very different. It's a very tedious job. This center collects, digitizes and tags everything so that it is easy to search for information about the type of crime, after the crime scene, by the name of the witness or the victims, etc. We translate all of this into English, which comes with a very positive response from intellectuals, historians and Western journalists. They say it breaks the information barrier because they are unable to learn Polish. It's very simple. Polish language is a very difficult language. The Anglo-Saxons generally learn French or German rather than Polish. And what we do really helps them. I think he's sure here... I admit that I never have such problems when I talk to representatives of the Anglo-Saxon world, with Americans or with the English. They understand that. Actions which are intended to document crimes or are an expression of our opposition to totalitarianism, are never treated by them as wars pronounced by Germany or Russia. And there were arguments that we shouldn't do this because we're annoying relations with the Germans. I don't think you should look at it that way. After all, Israel also published his testimonies and translated them into English. They are in very broad use in Europe and outside Europe, presented at universities. Thus, this narrative entered into a general, universal narrative. I think that's exactly what Poland needs. Yet no one accuses the Israelis of being anti-Germans. That's not what this is about. As far as cover measures are concerned, I can honestly say that the part I am dealing with is more about Western Europe and the United States. The eastern direction definitely belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'd like to draw your attention... As far as Memorial is concerned, from my practice as a historian, I know that historians who were associated with the Memorial are persecuted there. These are really very serious things. It is not that the Memorial in today's Russia has full freedom of action. These people are very scared. Our activities in Russia in terms of conducting archival searches, cooperation with Russian historians, especially from the Memorial, have been severely reduced, but not because of Poland's bad will. It's a real problem how we're supposed to do it. It's hard to talk to a partner who's sort of looking for an excuse to show that there's something against him. I do not have to say that Poles have no problem distinguishing Russian culture, Russian ballet, Russian literature or Russian art, from communist ideology. But that's actually a difficult problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u155	Is the marshal finished asking questions? Yes. Senator Czerwinski is asking the question now. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Using your presence as a representative of the government... It's not really up to you, but I think you should give this to the Foreign Ministry. Well, in Opole there is a large monument, exhibited near the village Mikolin, with very expressive, I would call it, a Soviet anturature, because there are red stars, etc. This monument commemorates one of the events of World War II, namely the pushing of the Oder by the Russian army. He's been destroying, practically since the breakthrough. Just last week there was a group, interestingly, from Mazur The completely unknown people, the locals who renovated this monument quite demonstratively, i.e. painted it, etc. I'm guessing this isn't the only case. Probably in other places of Poland before the entry into force of this law and immediately after its entry into force there will be attempts to renew these monuments, restore their glory to indicate: well, as this... 'Cause otherwise it's destroyed, or something that's beautiful and exposed. The Polish authorities should probably take over Maybe not so much a position as... they should know about it, and they should behave accordingly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u157	Would the Minister like to comment on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u158	I would like to thank you very much for this remark and to say, once again, that we simply need a museum with a very large area. We don't have to destroy these things, we can transport them to this museum of historical peculiarities, history. That's where we can just put it together. We really need this space because the museum in Kozłówka is just too small. I think we can do it this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u159	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No questions. I'm opening a discussion. I state that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the act on drivers of vehicles. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and is included in print No 409, and the committee's report In print No 409 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Legislative Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Act on Driving Vehicles, which took place on 20 June this year. I would like to say that at the beginning of February this year, the Legislative Commission decided to work on this project, which is the result of us taking the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal. On 21 February, Mr. Marshal sent a draft bill prepared by our lawyers for the procession, and on 20 June 3 joint committees were working on this project. I present a report on this work. The aim of the project is to abolish for disabled persons the fee for the practical part of the State driving licence test in the event that the examination is not carried out in the vehicle of a voivodship road centre, but in the vehicle of a disabled person requiring adaptation of the vehicle to the type of disease. In addition, a website with a list of vehicles available for the examination of disabled persons is envisaged. The draft is the result of a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 8 June 2016, in which the Court found that the provisions of the Act on driving vehicles were incompatible with the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Court held that Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 4 (1) in conjunction with Article. 54 (1) (a) In so far as the public authorities do not provide effective assistance to a disabled person requiring adaptation of the vehicle to the type of medical condition in providing the vehicle for the practical part of the State driving licence B, point 1 of the Act on driving vehicles is incompatible with Article. 69 of the Constitution and Article. 20 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. For, as the Court has stated, the applicant for the right to drive is subject to a review of the qualifications in the form of a public examination. The practical part of the exam is usually carried out by a vehicle at the disposal of a voivodship road centre. However, as the contested article provides, this provision shall not apply to the vehicles referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5, i.e. in the case of a disabled person requiring adaptation of the vehicle to the type of disease if the examination is carried out in the vehicle of that person. The provision that the practical part of the driving licence examination, at the request and the cost of the testee, shall be carried out by the designated vehicle of the driver training centre which has carried out the training of that person, shall apply. The State examination is carried out in the current situation for a fee which constitutes the income of WORD and amounts to PLN 140 for a practical part. In relation to a disabled person with a medical certificate stating that he/she can drive a vehicle after adapting it to a type of illness, where such an examination is carried out in the vehicle of that person, the fee shall be reduced by 50%. The Court found that Article. 69 of the Constitution provides that disabled persons are to be assisted by public authorities, in accordance with the law, by helping to safeguard their existence, to adopt them for work and to communicate with the public. The provision of this assistance is not based on In the Court's view, the State takes over the role of the entity having full responsibility for creating conditions for the existence of persons with disabilities. This would argue with the principle of subsidiarity expressed directly in the preamble to the Constitution. Action taken by public authorities First at local level and then, if necessary, at higher level The disabled person may expect when neither she nor the members of his family are able to provide support in financing his or her legitimate needs. The role of an auxiliary State in the areas of activity indicated should be understood as introducing facilitation and support in order to ensure that the mere fact that a person is disabled does not mean total social exclusion. Art. 20 The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, entitled "Mobility', provides that States Parties shall take effective measures to enable persons with disabilities to have personal mobility and as much autonomy as possible. Given the importance that the modern world attaches itself to driving and having the right powers to do so, and in particular in view of its benefits, In the field of professional activity and social communication The Court found that the legislators were required to introduce regulations enabling the public authorities to provide assistance to disabled persons in the acquisition of rights to drive. In fulfilling this obligation, the legislator has the freedom to choose the way in which this assistance is to be implemented. Hence, the support of people with disabilities created by him does not have to, for example, rely on the absolute obligation of road centres to provide these persons with vehicles for the practical part of the State driving licence test, it may as well take a different form administrative, organisational, technical or financial. In any event, however, this support must constitute an effective mechanism for the public authorities to implement the obligation to assist disabled persons in the area under investigation. Currently, in accordance with Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 of the 2013 Regulation of the Minister for Transport, Construction and Maritime Affairs on the level of fees for carrying out the State exam and the remuneration rates associated with obtaining certificates by examiners for a practical part, as I have already said when it comes to persons with an appropriate medical certificate, this fee is reduced by 50%. The aim of the project is to introduce into the Act the total abolition of the charge for disabled persons with a medical certificate stating that they can drive a motor vehicle after being adapted to their disease. Where the driving of an examination is carried out in the vehicle of these persons, such a fee is to be eliminated. In addition, the project imposes on the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs At present, it is the Minister of Development and Finance to designate from among the organisational units of its subordinates or supervised entities a list of such vehicles as may be used for the examination of persons with disabilities. And now I'd like to say yes. The original project, which was prepared by senate lawyers, assumed that this provision would be implemented in such a way that this fee of PLN 140 was to be reduced by the cost of the loan by the person who takes the exam, the vehicle, if this examination took place in the vehicle of that person. To my surprise, the Ministry of Finance proposed that this fee be abolished completely. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure is concerned, it would indicate a situation in which... It concluded that it would be more appropriate to simply clarify the current rules. Given how many such people passed these exams in the years 2012 and 2015, as is apparent from the materials that we have available, there were 391 people, and here we are talking about the amount of PLN 9 000 per year, spread over 50 road centres, because there are about this number of them today in Poland. We very much welcomed the declaration by WORD representatives who were present at the committee's meeting that they thought these were trace amounts, so they agreed to bear this from their own resources. For example, a representative of the road centre from Suwałk spoke about it. In addition to the finance minister who proposed the abolition of this fee, the Association of Disabled Drivers Spinka and the Industrial Motorization Institute spoke of a similar solution. In the context of the public consultation, both of them proposed that the Ministry of Development should take on the responsibility to operate a vehicle base adapted to the needs of people with disabilities. We have two of these amendments. The two amendments were tabled together with Senator Rooster. They were accepted, with one Senator holding off. The result of these amendments is precisely this proposal which I am presenting to the High House today. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u161	Thank you, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister. We have Minister Jerzy Szmit, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. The Ministry supports this draft law, also after the amendments which were made at the request of the committee. I would just like to point out that some additions are needed in the course of further work. Namely, it is necessary to clearly indicate which institution will cover the costs of conducting the exam, as the senator has already mentioned. Of course, these figures, which were presented, show that this is not in a substantive or financial sense a big problem for voivodship traffic centres, but this should be indicated in the Act, for example, in order to provide a basis for the write-off of these costs in the normal conduct of proper, reliable accounting. It can also be pointed out that these costs will be covered by the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. In fact, it is his function, so he could fully cover such costs. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that we are positive about this bill. I think that we will be able to clarify it in the course of further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u163	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. Nobody came forward for discussion. Then I will close the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. High Senate, the sixth point of our meeting, or information about the operation of the Institute of National Remembrance, was scheduled at 4:00 p.m. We are ahead of time, we have accelerated, and I therefore decide that we will first consider point seven, the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions, for which we are prepared. I hope that by then a representative of the Institute of National Remembrance will be here. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on petitions that were examined in 2016. The text of the report is contained in print No 531. You have the floor of Senator Robert Mamątov, President of our Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to briefly present the information of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, i.e. a report on petitions considered in 2016. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at its meeting on 20 June 2017 adopted a report on the petitions considered in 2016, which includes Senate print No 531. By fulfilling the annual obligation under Article. 90f of the Senate Rules of Procedure, the committee shall report to the Senate. First of all, I would like to remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 in the section of Freedom and Political Laws, in art. 63, provides for the possibility for citizens to submit petitions, applications and complaints. This provision states that everyone has the right to submit petitions, applications and complaints in the public interest, his or her own or another person with his or her consent to public authorities and to organisations and social institutions in connection with their tasks. In addition, that provision shall include an authorisation to regulate the petition procedure in the law. The Act of 11 July 2014 on petitions implements this constitutional provision. It should be stressed that although the petition law entered into force on 6 September 2015, the Senate Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions has been examining petitions for 8 years under the provisions of Section Xa of the Senate Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the provisions of Section Xa of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, the Senate Marshal shall address petitions sent to the Senate and its organs to the chair of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The chairman of the committee shall address the petitions to the committee meeting. The Commission, after considering the petition and establishing the link between the subject matter of the petition and the functions of the House, may exercise one of the three powers, i.e. may, first, submit a proposal to the Senate Marshal for a legislative or legislative initiative, together with a draft law or a resolution; secondly, authorise one of the members of the committee to submit a legislative proposal during discussions on a particular item on the agenda of the Senate; thirdly, to present to the Senate Marshal an opinion on the appropriateness of the Senate's exercise of the powers laid down in the Constitution, the Act or the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. If the committee, after considering the petition, considers that the subject matter of the petition does not fall within the competence of the Senate, it may delegate it to the competent public authority, informing the Senate marshal accordingly. The Commission also has the right not to take any further action after considering the petition, which also informs the Senate Marshal and indicates the reasons. The Commission shall notify the petitioner of the action taken or the reasons for not taking it. In accordance with the procedure adopted during the examination of the petition, the Department of Petitions and correspondence shall prepare for each petition information on the subject matter of the petition. It is a supporting material for the examination of the petition by the committee. Each information contains a presentation of the subject-matter of the petition, a description of the petition requests and their justification, as well as an analysis of the legal status of the issue contained therein and data on possible legislative work on the subject. Each work shall be accompanied by a copy of the petitions and annexes sent by the petitioner and by selected acts, judicial decisions, draft laws, publications or information on previous actions on petitions. In 2016, the Senate Marshal sent 69 petitions to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, including 45 individual, 18 collective and 6 multiple petitions. In addition, the committee continued its work on 5 petitions addressed to it in 2015. The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions in 2016 discussed petitions at 23 meetings, each examining 2 and 9 petitions. The list of petition topics on which the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions worked in 2016 is set out in Annex 2 to this report. In addition, a list and description of petitions are presented on the Senate's website and the work of the petition committee is documented, in the stenographic records of meetings and in the retransmissions of meetings. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has adopted the procedure for the individual examination of each petition in the work on petitions. Only repeated petitions were dealt with together. After the petition was presented to the committee, a discussion was held on its demands, and information, opinions and positions were collected from the ministries involved in the subject matter of the petition and from experts. The meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of ministries, offices and other non-governmental institutions and organisations carrying out tasks in areas covered by petitions. In 2016, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions prepared 8 draft laws on the basis of the demands of 9 petitions. In addition, it was decided to continue work on 5 petitions, and the remaining petitions were decided to complete or not to undertake work on them. The Senate on 11 January 2017 at its 3rd meeting... Excuse me. The way in which the committee's work on petitions was completed was as follows: the draft laws were 8 and the work continued 5; the petitions were handed over to the other authorities 8; the work was completed or they were not adopted 48 petitions. The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on 3 petitions, finishing its work, decided to ask the Minister of Health, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy to consider the possibility of including requests made in petitions proposed in resorts. To conclude the work on 5 petitions, the committee provided information on these petitions to the Sejm committees in which work was carried out on projects covering the issue of petitions. In the petitions examined by the committee in 2016, the petitioners called for: a change in the situation of people with disabilities 15 petitions called for work to be undertaken in the regulation of the situation of hearing impaired persons; changes to family and caring law; changes to the provisions of civil and administrative procedures; changes to the provisions on social pension, disability pension, pensions; amendments to the law on combatants; changes to the social insurance system, the inclusion of parental leave in retirement, State aid for the raising of children; changes to the powers to certify the conformity of copies of documents with the originals in administrative proceedings; changes to the temporary room regulation, in the context of the amendment of the law on the protection of the rights of tenants; introduction of free medicines for the poorest and chronically ill adults and children; safeguarding investor's liability for commitments to subcontractors in building contracts; changes to the Teacher's Charter, the Law on Teacher's Compensation Benefits; changes in the law of education; changes in the law on the protection of public roads; changes in the law of work, the establishment of Sundays as a day off-duty for adults and children; changes in the electoral code, the law on assembly, the law of associations; changes in the law of hunting, the law on the law of public roads; changes in the law of transport, the law of commercial services; changes in the law; changes in the law in the law in the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of A number of correspondence flows to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Senate Marshal and other Senate bodies and the Senate's statutory units. When analysing the letters registered in 2016 in the Department of Petitions and correspondence of the Social Communication Office, it should be noted that in the case of 1 721 letters, the overall impact was 2,370 letters of correspondence titled their letters as petitions or contained proposals and proposals to amend the legislation. After a thorough analysis of these letters, 69 petitions were prepared, including six multiple petitions. When analysing the impact of petitions in 2016, it is important to highlight the over-fivefold increase in their number in relation to the number of petitions addressed to the Senate in 2015 and almost three times in relation to 2014. The number of multiple petitions and the number of petitions attached to those petitions have also doubled. At the end of December 2015, 27 individual and collective petitions were sent to the Senate Office from the Office of the Ombudsman. These petitions together with subsequent petitions from the beginning of 2016 The total number of petitions was 1,736 and were a material for the preparation of a multiple petition on changes to the rules of family law, which the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions had already been working on in 2016. Following multiple petitions to the Senate in 2016, during the period of the announcement of collecting identical petitions, which received support from individuals and collective entities, were supported by the PW9-02/16 petition on foster care by 4 857 people; the PW9-03/16 petition on child-parent contacts supported 608 people; the PW9-04/16 petition on disciplinary proceedings against judges was supported by 196 people; the PW9-05/16 petition on the profession of psychologist was supported by 583 persons; the PW9-06/16 petition on the taxation of wind power plants supported 11 local units. Many of the letters entitled 'petition', which were addressed to the Department of Petitions and correspondence of the Office of Social Communications of the Senate, could not be issued in a constitutional manner, primarily because they did not contain legislative proposals, and their authors presented their cases before the judicial authorities or various local authorities, expressing polemics or dissatisfaction with decisions, decisions or decisions. A large part of the correspondence sent as petitions were written by those who shared opinions, comments and criticisms on the application and observance of the law. The senders of correspondence received a written reply from the Department of Petitions and correspondence of the Social Communication Office containing information or clarification. In accordance with the procedure adopted for the examination of the petition, the Department of Petitions and correspondence for each petition has prepared information on the subject matter of the petition. It was a supporting material for the examination of the petition by the committee. The information contained a presentation of the subject-matter of the petition, a description of the petition's requests and their justification, as well as an analysis of the legal status of the issue in question and data on possible legislative work on the subject. The study also included information on the question of the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal and of the general or administrative courts, as well as information on the activities of the government or the organisations concerned. Each study was accompanied by material containing a copy of the petitions and annexes sent by the petitioner and by selected acts, judgments of the courts, draft laws, publications or information on earlier sections of the petition. In view of the diversity of the issues contained in the petitions discussed in 2016 by the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, the actions of the committees have been described in respect of each of the 68 petitions. In view of the extensive materials, I refer to the content contained in Senate print No. 531. Summary. It should be noted that petitions represent an important part of the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, are the subject of a number of discussions, as well as an analysis of the applicable law in the areas indicated by the petitioners. At the same time, petitions enable the committee to undertake legislative work to change the law in the areas advocated by citizens. The report shall include information on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions on petitions sent by the Senate Marshal in 2016 and data on petitions from the previous year on which the work was continued. The thematic scope of the petitions and the legislative proposals contained in them were the subject of 23 committee meetings, and not all the work on petitions addressed to the committee was finalised by the end of 2016. Some of these work continued in 2017. At the same time, positions and comments on petitions which were the subject of the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions were gradually received from petitioners. An important event in the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions was the conference entitled "Experience of the application of the law on petitions." Good and bad practices, query marks, suggestions for changes, which closed the information campaign Since May 20, 2015, the Senate and the Institute of Public Affairs have held an information campaign on your law. The aim of the campaign was to promote the right to petition and to present the way in which petitions were dealt with. It was addressed to citizens, NGOs and local government. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Institute of Public Affairs took stock of the campaign and the first months of the petition law. Having examined the work on the handling of petitions, the committee recognised the need to review the functioning of the petition law with the participation of representatives of petitioners, bodies and institutions concerned by the resolution, NGOs and experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u165	Thank you, Senator. Would any of you senators like to ask the committee rapporteur a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I state that none of your senators have signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to thank Senator Robert Mammatov for presenting the report to the Senate. I state that the Senate has read the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions on petitions that were examined in 2016. Dismissed until 4:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 50 to 16 minutes 02]] I'm reopening the Senate. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. The text of the information is contained in print No 509. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. At its meeting on 20 June 2017, the Commission heard the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, who is present at the Senate meeting, of the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, Minister Jarosław Szark. I ask the President to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. The passing year for the Institute of National Remembrance was an extremely important year. Last year the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance was amended. According to her records, two new offices were created, and the Institute of National Remembrance imposed entirely new tasks. These two new offices include the Office for Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom and the Office for Search and Identification. At the same time, in the structure of the existing Institute of National Remembrance, the Office of Public Education was divided into two offices: the Office of Historical Research and the Office of National Education. Such an extremely important element of the changes was the change in the chronological scope, which is dealt with by the Institute of National Remembrance. So far it has been the years 1939 and 1989, and since the middle of last year the Institute of National Remembrance has been working on the history of 1917 and 1989. However, this amendment of the law, the imposition of new, extremely important tasks on the Institute of National Remembrance did not result in an increase in the budget, there was even a cut in the budget by 36 million PLN. From this amount, we managed to save $12 million. Despite this situation, the Institute has accomplished all its tasks, although it has worked at that time... The newly established offices have been created, you can say, to a very limited extent. It is estimated that last year, during the discussion on increasing the number of tasks, 170 new posts for the Institute of National Remembrance were discussed, but unfortunately this number had to be significantly reduced. Of course, the main office of the Institute of National Remembrance is the archive. Last year also included new tasks under the Act. This was, among others, the case. elimination of the reserved collection, which involved an increase in the number of duties of the employees of the archive and, above all, the implementation of the de-zubekization law, because it is the Institute of National Remembrance that carries out these tasks. It's a huge job, it's a check on 150 and 200 thousand files of officers. Of course, apart from the changes that the National Remembrance Institute imposed on it, the Institute has carried out all these tasks which it has been carrying out for 17 years, carrying out a very wide educational activity in the country and abroad and conducting investigations. The Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals has undertaken several very important investigations, concerning among others. prisoners of the camp in Ravensbrück or the operation of the Polish NKVD, whose 80th anniversary is celebrated this year. There'll be a session tomorrow at the Seym. The Institute of National Remembrance attaches particular importance to the popularization of the history of the operation of the Polish NKVD, because its knowledge, i.e. knowledge of the death of at least 111 thousand of our compatriots, is small. The Institute of National Remembrance was one of the first institutions to publish publications on this subject, among others. In 2010, in cooperation with the Ukrainian archives, we issued 2 comprehensive volumes of documents concerning this genocide from 1937. I have already mentioned cooperation with Ukraine. It is the Institute of National Remembrance at this moment that is the largest institution of this kind in the entire post-Soviet area. We have a very wide archival exchange not only with Ukraine. This is already 10 volumes of documents issued since 2010. We started editing documents together with Lithuanian scientists. The first volume of documents concerning the operation of the Soviet Union's security apparatus against the Polish and Lithuanian underground... Back to the operation of the Polish NKVD, I will say that together with the Georgian archives we also published a volume of documents concerning the materials in the Georgian archives. We are active in many international structures, among others. within the framework of the European Platform for Remembrance and Conscience. Another meeting took place several days ago in Warsaw. This is an institution of several countries, including the United States and Canada, dealing with post-totalitarian legacy settlement. It is also important to highlight the very important activities of the new office, the Office for Remembrance and Martyrdom. As a result of the amendment of the Act, it took over part of the competence of the former Council. Unfortunately, even though the board had a budget of 22 million, we were allocated 0 PLN for this activity. We're still running it. The Institute of National Remembrance was the founder of the plaque unveiled in recent days in the Silesian Voivodeship Office building commemorating the 90th anniversary of joining Upper Silesia to Poland. One of the most visible areas of activity of the Institute of National Remembrance is the search work carried out on the Link and in dozens of places in Poland as well as outside Poland. These are works on the search for our heroes. Last year there was a funeral in Gdańsk of one of the icons of the anti-communist underground of Danuta Sidzikówna and Felix Selmanowicz, with the participation of many thousands of people and the highest authorities of the Republic. I think that today we are at a point where no one questions the need for the Institute of National Remembrance anymore. The Institute has 17 years of activity and changed the historical awareness of Poles. Many issues that have been completely unknown so far have become widely known. We can speak here, among other things. about the post-war activity of the anti-communist underground. The Institute of National Remembrance plays a huge role in commemorating the heritage of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union. The Institute is carrying out a major scientific project of the Encyclopedia of Solidarity. It is a multi-volume publishing house that illustrates the history of "Solidarity" between 1980 and 1989. These are dozens of monographs and books commemorating this great movement, as well as everything that was happening around the activities of the Independent Student Association. At this point, we are preparing a monograph of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers, which is one of the topics pushed on the side track. Of course, the Institute of National Remembrance attaches great importance to our history during World War II. We started working on the monographs of the German security camera. These are white spots in our history. We also deal with Polish-Jewish relations. We particularly care about commemorating Poles saving Jews. The Institute of National Remembrance does not divide Poles into residents of the country and beyond. We also pay attention to those who live on the Eastern Ends of the Republic of Poland We remember the role they played over the years. And those who live in other countries in the West, especially in those centres where the memory of independence has survived, where the deposit of independence has been preserved. We remember our compatriots, we respond to their need to maintain a bond with their homeland. We organize not only stops history, recently opened in New York and Brussels or previously operating in Vilnius, but also trips of our employees to classes with teachers and young people in practically all countries where Poles live. We respond to these needs. In agreement with the Polish Embassy in Vilnius, we sent over 3 tons of our publications to more than 70 Polish schools. I could talk about the work of the Institute of National Remembrance for a long time, but I think that's enough. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Would any of you senators like to ask the president a question? Senator Żaryn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u168	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you some questions raised here by your President, but I also have questions not related to your statement. For now, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna ask you the first three questions, and then I'm gonna ask you another question. Namely external historical policy... I'll wait. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: I will remember.]] For now, I will stop at the slogan of external historical policy. You spoke, Mr President, about the stops of history in the United States and Brussels. These are actions that are as positive as possible, coming out of our country with information about Polish history. Especially, as I understand it, this applies to facts and events related to World War II, as well as to building ethos of Solidarity. These are undoubtedly our nodal needs, but I would also like to ask how much the Institute of National Remembrance has been involved. Of course, other institutions, including social institutions, should also do this. In all these attempts to correct anti-Polish statements, anti-Polish events, unfortunately sometimes organized, what to hide here, with the participation of Poles. I mean, among other things. the last exhibition that was shown in Brussels, which is disgraceful from the point of view of our historical message and the truth about our past. Does the IPN see the potential to effectively counter such attempts to present Polish history? That's the first question. The second concerns priority research projects. As far as these priorities are concerned, each term of office of the President is concerned, that on the one hand old research projects are being carried out, they must be carried out, because this is the dynamics of the completion of the work. On the other hand, there are also new research projects resulting from the ongoing reflection of the management, but also from the needs that can be seen outside. One of these needs, which is evident, and you mentioned, is the elimination of the reserved collection. To what extent do you suppose... Do you have plans for 2017 or 2018 to include among these leading projects a path of analysis which is very important in IPN, i.e. Studies from science to education? The point is that the IPN will not lose control of the very difficult reality of this proprietary set. To be a guide, not to be on the margins. Among these research projects, I do not see the connection between the liquidation of the reserved collection and the need I have spoken of. The third question in this first round: after the liquidation of the Public Education Office, or rather after the division of this office, do you see any threats? It has already been a few months and can be assessed over the course of 2016 by our decision-makers and legislators? The primary threat I see is the possible lack of convergence between the results of scientific research and transparency and the activities of the educational department, which is intended to disseminate these results. Do you see, I'd say, the path, it's better or worse? How is it in practice when it comes to 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u169	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u170	Mr. Senator, the question of an active policy outside, the promotion of our history. This is one of the fundamental goals of the Institute of National Remembrance and we want to go this way that has already proven itself. She's proven herself in such a mass dimension. What can be the best answer to all of these, I'll say the gentlest, reluctant voices that represent our story? The popularization of our history. We've checked a very effective path. Last year, my predecessors... This is the way we'll continue. It is about the World Youth Days and the huge popularity of a small book published on this occasion, a guide to the history of Poland from 966 to contemporary times, by my predecessor, Dr. Łukasz Kaminski, and Dr. Maciej Korkucia. This book was published together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 8 languages. This project we want to continue, at this point we are preparing a reprint of this book. A similar popular publication has also begun. Also in 8 languages, which depict the history of Poland during World War II. This is a subject, I think, fundamental, which raises a lot of disputes, a lot of emotions. I think the best way to present your own history is to get directly to the citizens of other countries, to look for our ambassadors, environments friendly in these foreign countries. This is the easiest way to activate Polish environments outside the country, because their neighbours are citizens of other countries. Even more effective form of struggle with these reluctant, often stereotyping, opinions are inviting citizens from abroad to Poland. With the Kościuszko Foundation, a very well-deserved institution in the United States, we have discussed the preparation of a scholarship program for Americans, for the American elite, for opinion-makers. We want to invite them to Poland and show places related to the history of Poland. Like I said, the Polish operation... It's a request. to us just a few days ago from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have now published such a very popular brochure concerning the operation of the Polish NKVD from 1937. The idea is that it should also be published in these eight basic European languages. And this way... The issue of many disputes, many controversy Mr. Senator was talking about it. Polish-Jewish relations and an image of the Polish occupation are different from that of Poland. France. Hence the idea of organising such an international conference showing legislation in Poland, i.e. German legislation against Jews in occupied countries of Europe. The point is to show what it looked like on occupied lands in Poland and what it looked like in France or the Netherlands. In a few days, on July 4th and 5th, there will be an international conference in Kielce... We want to be very active and meet historians from abroad to discuss our history. This is, I think, the best form of her presentation. This is a conference. in Kielce devoted to the methodology of research on Polish-Jewish relations. So that these fields of activity are... I think it's what it was signed a few days ago... and this cooperation with the Foreign Ministry has been going on for a long time, it's already been going on, but there's been a formal agreement signed. Besides, I will not hide that our historians are often asked by the institutions of the Polish state, when there are articles, sometimes lying, about polemics or preparation of a factual, historical response to these content. And that's what we do. Besides, it can be seen that the great activity of the Polish state 'Cause this place has changed a lot compared to what happened a dozen years ago. Regarding what such emotions are, i.e. the terms of Polish concentration camps... Very rarely now, at this time, such terms appear. It means that an active, determined, substantive response is effective. And that's what we're gonna do. Is there anything else? [[Two more questions.]] And as for the proprietary collection, Mr. Senator, this is where I disagree. Namely, there is a whole research program devoted to the safety apparatus. This is a continuation. And under this program is everything that also applies to the reserved set. But as I understand it, the senator supports the popularization of this knowledge or... [[May I clarify, Mr. Marshal?]] [[You'll have the floor, Mr. Senator, when the president's done.]] So here I see... the publications that started earlier are still being supplemented, you can say, in these months. This proprietary collection has been successfully removed for some time now, so they are supplemented with these documents. This is the main place where the popularization of knowledge about the restricted collection will follow, but not only. As far as I know, radio and television broadcasts are being prepared on these materials, which are discovered in a restricted collection, and thus reach a wide range of audiences, not only in the historical environment. And we know that these things are very emotional, but not as big as a few or a dozen years ago. The publication of several thousand signatures, i.e. the presentation of a list of these materials, probably no longer aroused such interest or not as much interest as emotions and discussions, as it would be. 15 years ago. I would like to say a fundamental thing here. It can be said that it was only in February that we implemented the 2010 Sejm Act, placing 1 million 700 000 files on the Internet in the archive inventory after the former communist security camera. That, I think you can use that word, revolutionized access. Thanks to this, the search can be done from home by practically anyone you know about. That's all he can do. And as for BEP, which is the Public Education Office, I'm going to say this: since the very beginning of the IPN was this division into, so simply put it, an educational office and a scientific office. Although they used to be called different names depending on the time. And there were tensions between the two teams that I thought would complement each other, which we're still working on. Of course, scientific activities are long-term. They first reach a certain circle of historians, and education is to popularize them, to make them reach the public. Scientific publications sometimes appear in small copies, several hundred copies, and often reach a particular environment. However, since the very beginning of the Institute of National Remembrance this educational sphere, the popularization of history has indeed been a very important element. We do it every way we can. On the one hand, it is working in schools, with students, with teachers, with students. And it's like one segment. But there is also a second: here we should add that very popularity is started last year and of course the whole year's school cycle of lectures between two totalitarianisms, describing several fundamental topics from the history of Poland. About 2 000 teachers participated in these workshops throughout Poland. But it's like it's just one sphere. And the second is the popularization that reaches each of these films, of course, and these are radio broadcasts, and these are television programs, but they are also additions to newspapers. This role is also played by the renewed and very popular IPN Biuletyn. It is a publishing house to popularize history or those topics that the Institute of National Remembrance deals with. Thanks to the launch of new distribution channels and thanks to, among others. Signing cooperation with the Polish Post The IPN Biuletyn is available in thousands of Polish Post offices. This makes his circulation actually very much higher. And this is also one element of popularization. But indeed, Mr. Senator, these tensions and some conflicts between the Historical Research Office and the National Education Office have been, as I say, from the very beginning. I don't know exactly if separating them so formally, into two offices was a good idea. Because it's natural that this cooperation must be very good. And it follows. Educational activities are reviewed by the research office and, in turn, the effects of research are popularized by the National Education Office. So there must be cooperation here, here and in every sphere.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u171	Does the senator want to continue with the questions? [[But maybe somebody else...]] Finish this, Mr. Senator, your series, given, of course, that others will also want to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u172	That's another three questions, if you don't mind. You said about the first issue, Madam President, in the context of Polish Post. I am very pleased that these at least, as far as I know, 4 thousand points of Polish Post will also be filled with books or the official of the Institute of National Remembrance. But I would like to ask whether this is the only answer to the distribution problems that the Institute of National Remembrance had, or whether it was possible during the previous year, or perhaps only this year, to find further solutions to strengthen distribution, especially in the case of scientific positions. That's the first question. Second question. Namely, when you once presented your vision of the Institute of National Remembrance here in the Higher House, you said that one of the priorities And I hope that this is as widely accepted as possible. The history of the Kresów, Polish Kresów understood of course as widely as the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance allows. Undoubtedly, in the border history we are dealing on the one hand with Polish necropolises, burials, and on the other hand with graves, especially in today's Ukraine, with graves of which there are hundreds, graves, places which are either recognized or are on their way to recognition. How did it work out in 2016 and how it worked out with Ukrainian actors in order to conduct archaeological research, historical research, all the research that would involve the Ukrainian country with this obvious need resulting from our history, to make amends for those who have been dead for a long time and are buried there? Now the year 1917 causes the commitments chronologically going further. But we know that there are also cemeteries and burial sites of Polish soldiers from World War I, which, so to speak, did not want to start in 1917, but was rather to end... What does this mean for IPN in practice? And the third question about border issues to stay with them. Do you see such an opportunity to create some research project binding clearly historians both in the IPN and outside the Institute of National Remembrance, who would specifically refer to the border heritage in the field of material culture as well as in the sphere of spiritual culture, people who functioned there, i.e. a certain biography. Poland's Ends is a very broad concept. Since they are among your priorities, and I believe they are still there, I would like to ask for a possible suggestion, if I think that any research in this direction will also be going. Mr. Marshal, let me have another three questions later.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u173	Mr. President, the questions are concise and we ask for brief answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u174	Good. First of all, distribution was one of the most difficult cases from the very beginning, for many years after the liquidation of the Auxiliary Farm at the Institute of National Remembrance. In order to resolve this, we decided to reform, you can say, the entire publishing structure, establishing the Central Publishing House of the Institute of National Remembrance, and this also involves central distribution. I think that within... When I included the presidency, the books of the Institute of National Remembrance were only available in about 20 bookstores throughout Poland. This central distribution, the reform of publications, will allow us to sign agreements with various entities that will allow our books to reach... It's already happening. Besides, we're opening new bookstores. A few weeks ago thanks to cooperation, which also took place earlier And that is also the answer to the senator's further questions. We have signed an agreement with the Polish Community. In the building of the Polish Community in Kraków Przedmieście we opened a bookstore. This is one of those places where we will also promote books that are part of the mission of the Institute of National Remembrance and, on the other hand, in the activities of the Polish Community. I'll give you two examples from the last time. E.g. Mr. Dr. Hab's book is being promoted. Piotr Kardela dedicated to the environment of Polish combatants in the United States. On the other hand, representatives of the Association of Veterans of the Polish Army in America also come to our invitation to attend the celebrations scheduled for the 23rd. As far as I know, a day or two earlier in this place will take place, together with the Polish Community, a presentation of our album, one of the first albums to prepare for the celebrations in 2018, an album dedicated to General Haller, an album jointly released with the Military Historical Office. General Kazimierz Sosnkowski. But I think it's still... I don't know, it's a matter of a few or a dozen days. I'm here with the Director General, who may, after a break, give an answer when the National Remembrance Institute online bookstore begins. This will make it possible to order a book from the Institute of National Remembrance from home. Also the Polish Post channel is a channel that we use to distribute not only the newsletter, but also the books of the Institute of National Remembrance. We send all returns later directly to schools. The album about General Haller wants to send the name of General Haller to all schools in Poland free of charge. As for the Ends, of course. This is one, I'm not hiding, actually from the priority... Here I agree that nothing has changed here. But I will really focus on the issue of Ukraine, because I think it is a question that causes a lot of emotions. First of all, at this point, our presence there. This concerns search, identification, commemoration, and practically blocked. I, being in Kiev, had conversations with a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They made far-reaching declarations of cooperation, and on our part there was such a position that if we really cannot communicate, because here it is difficult, then we can discuss historically... And it's happening. The Polish-Ukrainian Historical Forum at both IPNs is functioning and I hope it will function. Two, three meetings... Two meetings took place in the past year. That's the problem... Because the employees of the search and identification office had already left for Ukraine, but after the declaration that the Ukrainian side could not provide them with security, we withdrew from there. As far as I know, the workers went to Lithuania. And that's actually the problem. That's the problem. I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs publicly for some support, because... at the Institute of National Remembrance at the Office of Search and Identification is even appointed the Department of Forestry to take care of... 'Cause it's all that's in our heart, but I think we're going to have to wait for that, unfortunately, until these issues, together with some changes in Ukraine or under some pressure, change... It is about commemorating more than 100,000 of our compatriots who were so cruelly murdered in Volhynia or Eastern Małopolska. In less than two weeks' time, another anniversary of this painful tragedy, the apogee of which was 11 July 1943. Here we presented this position: well, Volyn divides us, but let us try to meet in those areas that do not divide us, i.e.. just about commemorating or the year 1920 the alliance of Petlura with Piłsudski, or the search for, reconstruction... or exhumation of our soldiers from 1939, or the Polish Army or the KOP, who died in the fight against the Soviets after 17 September. None of these areas found any understanding on the Ukrainian side. At this point, our access is blocked there. But here we have to add one positive thing: it does not translate into archival cooperation. Cooperation with Ukrainian archives is... If there was such cooperation with everyone as with the Ukrainian state archives, it would be very good. Of course, of such specific things. 'Cause it's gonna take a long time to talk. I can also mention that the Institute of National Remembrance came out with an initiative to commemorate in Bobrujsk soldiers of corpses of Polish Gen. Dowbor-Muśnicki, namely the First Polish Corps. And what we're very happy about is the Belarusian side has accepted this idea. So that next year in Bobrujsk there will be a monument to these formations, underestimated, unremembered, and which played a major role in regaining independence, and later in 1920. We unveil the monument and at the same time release an album dedicated to Polish corpses in Russia. At the same time, we are popularizing the history of Murmanska Baśka for children and young people. This shows that we want to reach society on many levels. We will also print a book by one of Ukrainian historians, which we already translate, dedicated to these troops of the Polish army created then on the eastern lands of the Republic of Poland, because they received positive reviews. But this is just a clipping of the business. There are also, of course, scientific programs here. We are also going to publish sources, among others. voivodship reports from the eastern lands. I know that work is underway on a very interesting topic, namely the action of helping Jews in Novgorod region. It's one of the white spots. In September, we launch a large educational project dedicated to Kresów for secondary schools and secondary schools. Why is it important? Maybe the last sentence. Is that a frontier heritage? Because these are centuries of our history, history of Poland. Without memory, without knowing what they were to Poland's Kresa, we will not understand each other today. In this sphere, the Institute of National Remembrance wants to be and will be very, very active.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u175	Does the senator want to continue? [[Yeah, yeah.]] The last series of short questions. [[Last one.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u176	Let's just stick with this convention, that this is the last series, and maybe I won't even say three questions. Namely actually the Institute of National Remembrance in 2016 received a lot of new tasks. You were talking, Mr. President, about the deubecisation bill, and I got a little scared at the thought that the archivists had to look at 200,000 files. I hope that a better methodology has been found to discover the correct files of the 200 grand. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: No, because more than 150 thousand officers are to be verified.]] I know, it's just... [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Some 160 thousand, yes.]] It's just that, well, luckily, this many officers are dead... [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: But we carry out so many inquiries.]] ...and we're talking about what's going on with living people. But this is... [[Senator, a specific question.]] Question: why this number, where did 200,000 files come from? That's one thing. And second question. Namely, there is a second deubecization law concerning the names of streets, squares. She came into force last year. Can we ask for an approximation of the effects of the National Remembrance Institute today? How many conclusions, opinions have been sent, and from the perspective of the Institute of National Remembrance, is this deubecisation concerning street names, squares already a historical phenomenon, or are we still in the process of carrying out this task?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u177	Mr. President, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u178	Mr. Senator, about the first question about the number of files, I'll be right after the break, because there's a director of the archives here, and I'll give you a specific number of units that are concerned about one archival unit. Let me just say that it was actually four months of work, we did the job, you can say, a new one that was imposed on our archival staff, but concrete in a moment. And as for decommunization with regard to street names, I must say that here the Institute of National Remembrance has actually been very active for many years. Unfortunately, despite the entry into force of this law, we are still dealing with the relics of the communist system in many cities. This is where we've always taken a firm stand. Unfortunately, I won't give the senator the number of streets that are still involved, but I know that dozens, hundreds of local governments are turning to us, first of all for opinions, so that they don't have to... To make it easier, it's on our ipn page. gov.pl special tab, where biograms are ready, among others officers... names of streets which are the most... evidently to change and which do not arouse any controversy. What's comforting about this is that really changing the streets... Of course, depending on the place in Poland, because there are environments where local governments are active here, and there are ones where local governments are less active, they behave conservatively. But the positive thing is that here, most of all, young people... are developing various initiatives, such as local ones, aimed at... and they, so to speak, are taking on this burden of struggle. And in many cases It's a success. But there are places where all of this is difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u179	Mr. Senator, I suggest you finish a series of questions at this point. Doesn't mean you won't be able to speak in the discussion or repeat the questions. If you wish, you have the right. Allow me, at this moment, I'll ask the question. That's why at this point, it has something to do with Senator Zarin's questions. And I would like to compliment you first of all. Because this book on the history of Poland published on World Youth Days was actually a fantastic success. I used the remaining resources that were in Łódź, and gave them to my foreign students. Everyone accepted, no one refused, they took home. And the point is, they can read it there, too. That's my question. I would like you to answer whether you will take into account the possibility that through appropriate contacts, maybe some kind of agreement with universities in Poland, take on a special target, in a positive sense, these couple, or maybe dozens of thousands of foreign students who come to Poland every year, and for them in a special way these special historical things, especially as regards the history of World War II... So that these people can be distributed in Poland so that they can read it in Poland and take it home with them. Will the President consider making such contact with universities? Because it's not about sending something like this to the library, because it's just gonna be lying there, and it's not about having Polish students read it, because they're gonna read it in Polish, it's about some form of mutual commitment that it's gonna get to foreign students.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u180	Thank you for this compliment, but this compliment is due to Łukasz Kaminski and Maciej Korkuci, the authors of this book, who is really so successful that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked for an additional print. Indeed, it is a very good idea to reach foreign students who are staying in Poland. From our ideas that were born... Thousands of American soldiers from Western countries have been stationed in Poland for some time. We are preparing a program to reach out with such knowledge, with such publications just to citizens of foreign countries, also to tourists, so that everyone, leaving here, what he will see in Poland... to go away equipped with this book, small but very important. It's a different look. And this is the best science of our history.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u181	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I will also refer to the question that was asked by Senator Zarin, namely how it works. In quotation marks The decommunization law, so far the names. Have you had any problems with the formulation of positions in these two cases that have already been presented to you? Are some local governments going to question your opinions in any way? I'm not talking about appeals, I'm talking about attempts to correspond, explanations, etc.? I'm asking because these are sensitive things. Another issue is the amendment. Today we were dealing with an amendment that concerns monuments, symbolic commemorations. It's about the physical removal of buildings from public space. Tell me how you feel about it. Is this law complete, or should it still include a definition of another totalitarian system and records of symbolism which should not be on monuments? I would like to remind you that the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom, which you are the successor of, in two cases, namely Ukrainian commemorations and German commemorations, expressly ruled in its resolutions on such symbolism. Is it necessary for you to clarify this law in respect of monuments, or do you want to have greater freedom in this regard and decide for yourselves? That's two approaches. This is the first issue, which is the decounization bill. The second issue concerns Polish-Ukrainian relations. They're, I'd say, different in different aspects and different layers. À about the bill we were talking about: you were here from the Ministry of Culture, which claimed that all Ukrainian commemorations are construction slavish, i.e. they are simply to be demolished. And in the report I read On page 62 of the "International cooperation on commemoration of fights and martyrdom" that there is a correspondence with a Ukrainian partner on the status of Ukrainian commemoration, illegally erected in Poland, and the response to the acts of vandalism and devastation that have occurred in recent years. There's something I don't understand. Are we supposed to be explaining the acts of vandalism or the Ukrainians from the fact that they erected monuments illegally? I understand that this correspondence was about where to transfer the demolition material from these monuments. Yes? I don't think it's anything else. I must confess, Mr President, that, as you included this position, I had very high hopes with you. I thought that something called political correctness would be removed from the IPN, and the most important thing would be the Polish state right. I was a little concerned by the wording quoted here. I would like the IPN to return to its basic tradition, i.e. took care of Poles and the Polish state rhyme. And if it somehow interferes with the interests of other nations, then we should explain why we're right. Because in this dispute, we're definitely right. We should not commemorate packers or banners who murdered Poles in Volyn. [[Mr. Senator...]] One last question, one last question, and a completely different subject. Silk issue. Do you think there should be a reopening, an investigation into this case, and an exhumation to the end? If so, when will it be?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u183	Mr. President, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u184	Regarding the formulation that all Ukrainian commemorations are illegal in Poland, I will say that this is not the case. I can give you the exact statistics in a moment. Indeed, there are many years of omissions here, and everything cannot be done. I'll also say that how you eliminate certain things also matters. It's important whether it's done in a balanced way or if it's made into a spectacle that makes emotions grow. I don't think we care about that. Our attitude towards Ukrainian commemorations is clear and we propose them to the Ukrainian side. Any place where, in accordance with the applicable law, commemoration is to be terminated... What do we do next? First of all, we propose exhumations to find out who's lying there and properly prepare a memorial for it, because not so... Of course, the issue of the liquidation of the commemoration in Hruszowice, where not those who rest here, but the four Ukrainian whores, were commemorated, became very loud. Well, it's a memorial as if it's not appropriate for what's actually in this place. As for these legal solutions, the definition of a totalitarian system... The last attempt to extend these definitions, in my opinion, was not very beneficial, there was some confusion here. Of course, if something has some legal power, then it's... Because the Institute of National Remembrance can be questioned, but if something is included in the bill, then of course the power of it is greater. As regards cooperation with local authorities First of all, not all local governments report to the Institute of National Remembrance. Those who want to come to us have the will to make changes. And we respond positively. We also pay attention to the fact that the patron of the street does not respond, it must be said, the Polish state's right, it is not the affirmation of these attitudes, which we as an independent Polish country would like to honor. About Silk Here, in particular, further historical research is needed and we intend to carry out this research. About the exhumation... The issue of exhumation, i.e. re-inquiry, is that if new facts arise, they will be reported to the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, then the committee will take appropriate steps. It must be made clear that, in view of the exhumation of the Jewish environment, they are also divided, and their opinion is not clear. And that's it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u185	Thank you. Senator Ryszard Bonisławski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u186	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you... In these reports there is, as always, a very powerful dose of knowledge, for years we have probably received the best constructed, very transparent network of events. But I would still like to satisfy my curiosity with answers to simple, I hope, questions. Well, it's a little bit written here about cooperation with various centers, which also deal with research, collecting documents, etc., but I don't know if there's any cooperation with the Charter Center. Well, the Charter also has a huge resource of documents connected with independence movements in post-war Poland. And if it exists or doesn't exist, is that what's listed here... Because a great deal of work has been put into digitization of resources. Does an ordinary Internet user have access to them? Can he also use them in the educational process? And since we're talking about education, that's another question, because I didn't find the answer either. The school system's changing. Is the IPN ready for this? I ask because at one time we had very well-published files, helpful in the education process, but they will now have to be slightly differently edited. Is it done yet? Can we hope to find something like this in our new school year? That's the second question. I also have a third question because I didn't find a full answer here. Will they be integrated into some nationwide database of registration cards of war tomb objects from different years? When structures were liquidated, the regional councils, there were most of them already prepared such bases. Maybe they were different, but it's important that they're integrated. And so that we can, by clicking, find all this knowledge in one place. And at the end of the day... Previously, we received a very good publishing house called "Remembrance." but it was suspended at some point and now I have received one number of the IPN Bulletin. It seems to me that this former title was more interesting for the recipient, and the term "Bulletin" sounds so official. I don't know where the other name came from... I am also interested in what is the circulation of this IPN Bulletin. And is there any chance that he could reach out to more interested people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u188	As for cooperation with the Charter, I will say that this cooperation has been going on for years, among others. We have undertaken to issue a Repressed Index. And I have been meeting with Mr Gluza, because indeed the objectives of the Charter and the Institute of National Remembrance are at many points in common. I'll just add one more sentence here. Well, of course, the Charter is not the only environment of this kind. The Centre for the Documentation of Independence Action is also very dynamic in Krakow. The Institute of National Remembrance is always in favour of cooperating with all such initiatives to combine these activities, and also to know what is done within this framework so that we do not repeat these activities. As for education, Mr. Senator, all these educational files are actually available online at the moment. They were so prepared that we did not divide it into materials for young people, as it was before, middle school or high school. They were simply universal for secondary schools. And I think that there are enough universally prepared lesson scenarios that no changes will be necessary. Their recipients were, of course, teachers of secondary schools. As for the IPN Bulletin, it was a conscious decision to return to the title of the National Remembrance Institute, because it was the most recognizable brand of the National Remembrance Institute. It has been published since 2000 or since 2001, then it has been changed to memory. en. This is a writing perhaps corresponding to a profile of many additions, which at this moment almost every weekly in Poland places. But we wanted to go back to the IPN Bulletin, to the magazine for a slightly more demanding reader 'Cause it's a little bit higher. And I'm gonna be... Indeed, this name may seem a bit, as the senator said, official, but I will defend the term "Bulletin" because, please, it refers to a certain Polish tradition. It is the Information Office of the National Army, the most serious, largest magazine of Poland from the times of World War II. And here it is, you can say, a reference to this tradition of World War II struggles. When the pre-August opposition was born after June 1976, when the Committee for the Defence of Workers was formed, there was also a news bulletin. also to this tradition, because it was then the main writing, the loudest secondary paper. Of course, the officeite sounds a bit archaic today, but there is a great deal of emotion and tradition in it. Input of the IPN Biuletyn. At this point, as far as I know, he has several times more sales than Memory. We're happy to hear that. There's a lot of demand. Maybe we can consider it. If it were a memory. It was distributed like a newsletter, and it would reach a wider audience. But that did not happen. The edition of the newsletter is 15,000 copies. We're trying to get the returns or... the handwriting to go to school. After some time the newsletter is in pdf format available on the Internet. [[Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski...]] [[Voice from the room: One more question...]] [[Oh, there's another complaint.]] [[There you go.]] Tomb's still there, right? Tombs. As far as I know, depending on the region otherwise Looks like it. One of our tasks is to merge such a base. It's a long job. We want to prepare such Internet informants about cemeteries not only in Poland. There is also an initiative to create such that, so to speak, Internet cemeteries, and this applies to these 4 cemeteries in Italy, soldiers of the Second Corps, so that everyone at home can find their relatives' graves, their loved ones. This also applies to the frontier heritage. It's very sad, because unfortunately there is destruction of these cemeteries. Places where there were graves a few years ago are gone. There is an urgent need to document this, to photograph it, and that is also what we intend to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u189	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u190	So far, your questions and your answers prove that this law, this change, this rapid and large change, because concerning staff matters, and the significant expansion of subjective and subjective matters, did not work out well. To what you rightly point out, the public's interest in the work of the Institute is falling. I have questions in which there may be a recipe for recovery. Let's start with the update. First thing. The Ukrainian Parliament has passed a law in which at least this is the result of the employee's relationship with Ukraine is cut off from the totalitarian past of Ukraine. Does this mean, in your opinion, that access to materials is difficult, or maybe That's what I'd think. Easiest thing you've ever done? When our institute was founded, it facilitated others, also the victims of Stalinism What is it like for Ukraine? Is there any action in this regard? I understand that there are difficulties because the Ukrainian Government or other authorities are silent about this. Second thing. The process of canonization of the blessed priest is inevitably approaching. Are we on the ground of a trial that took place in Toruń in 1987, or is the IPN carrying out work to review this process based on a database, reports of witnesses who could not testify at that time because they would be accused of cooperation? Besides, Father Popieluszko's good name would be tainted with some kind of subversive activity. You're talking about financial problems, about the $36 million cut. I've been trying for years to get the word "co-operation..." You talked about cooperation with other institutions, universities, which are often in Poland, especially with the departments of history, but also with the Charter Centre and other institutions. It's just that it's not supposed to be co-operation, it's co-ordination, some kind of deal... I found out what it was like in the West because these volunteers came to me. They were getting grants. Students, academics, received grants for doing business. Not jobs, grants. Do you intend to extend the use of these forms to socialize the work of the Institute? And here's the next issue. It hurts me, for example. historical policy in the context of debubbishing laws in which the PZPR is not affected. There is no totalitarianism, there is no communism without party. Special forces were active in each country In some countries, the so-called democratically, similarly In turn the party was the essence. Do you reach the archives of the new files where the party's materials are? Do you conduct any studies on the totalitarian being... of the party in the totalitarian state, or do we have to accept such knowledge that we had the Front of Unity of the Nation in which several parties and various associations cooperated? I don't see these jobs. In this historical policy, this issue is silenced, which means that we are still dealing in the historical field with the continuation of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u191	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but we're at the question stage. You have a very good speech... [[Yeah, yeah, I'll tell you after I give the answer... and the Kuropaty...]] But I would ask for a question, a short question... [[Mr. Marshal, last word, not a question. The koropates.]] No, the last word... And the question? [[Come on, Kuropaty.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's a question about the Kuropaty. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Do we start with the Kuropat? Because it's... what does the senator want to ask? This place...]] [[A white or actually black speck of Kuropat, unrecognizable... I was there. Many of us were there, saw that this was a familiar place...]] [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: But, Mr. Senator, is this...]] I'll fill in the senator's question about the Kuropaty. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek:...it's for the Belarusian authorities, because...]] What is the cooperation between IPN and the Belarusian side? Is there any cooperation at all? Did the Belarusian authorities, which we have been very good about lately, change their attitude regarding the negative blockade, because for many years... Is there nothing going on, or is there something going on? [[Exactly. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] [[How we help each other in our organization.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u192	As for the Kuropat, this here is actually... There were disturbing reports from Belarus, even about the liquidation of the site. Well, we don't have much influence on Belarusian politics, we don't have access to what's called the Belarusian List of Katyn, but we do see a certain word, maybe too big a word. A thaw in relations with Belarus. The expression of this is, among others. what I have already mentioned here, i.e. permission to build a monument in Bobrujsk and permission to commemorate, if I am not mistaken, Polish soldiers of the Polish Army or the Border Protection Corps who died in 1939. Of course, this is a difficult partner, but some actions, especially with the scientific community, are being taken. We also remember about a very large Polish community in Belarus. Employees, especially the Białystok branch, often have lectures in Grodno for our compatriots. There is a certain problem here about the Augustan manhunt, because there is indeed some resistance from Belarus on this issue, but, as I say, much is changing here. If we continue to do so, we can hopefully look to the future. Let me get to the first question now, Senator. I absolutely don't share your statement. I don't know. I think we got the wrong idea. That this change was unnecessary and that at this point we are dealing, as I said, with a reduction in emotions regarding the issues of secret co-workers and the publication of their names. There is actually less emotion here, but that does not mean that interest is falling. It even increases or maintains great interest in the latest history. We've had the renaissance of this interest for a few years. The Institute of National Remembrance for this demand in every dimension corresponds. The issue of cooperation with university communities has been raised here. Mr. Senator, I encourage you to take a look at our website. There are dozens of scientific sessions. These scientific sessions are rarely organised only by the Institute of National Remembrance. In a few days there will be a Kielce session with scientific staff, as far as I know, the University of Jan Kochanowski in Kielce and other universities, as well as with scholars from abroad. Each of these sessions... I will also mention a recent session in Katowice 90th anniversary of Upper Silesia's return to Poland. And here outside the Institute of National Remembrance... Well, there are very few scientific initiatives in which the Institute of National Remembrance is performing alone, so I don't quite understand you here. I still don't understand the charge that there's no research on PZPR. Mr. Senator, this is one of the priority research programmes conducted for many years at the Institute of National Remembrance. I will cause the senator to receive dozens or dozens of works that still concern the PPR and the Polish United Workers' Party. It is the result of several years of research by the Institute of National Remembrance concerning the party, from the factory structures to the Political Bureau. Mr. Senator was talking about historical politics here, about the fact that it's a bad word... [[No, it's in it. It's about testing the batch. You've already answered.]] Good. Thank you. [[Thank you, Mr. President. Now Senator Czesław Ryszka. There you go...]] [[And Popieluszko, Popieluszko...]] [[Yeah, yeah...]] We're still conducting research on... an hour before this meeting began, I talked to one of the authors of the books about Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszka, author from outside the Institute of National Remembrance. He came into possession... As he said, two months ago there were recordings of the Toruń process, which for many years were untraceable in television archives. A vision of the Toruń Process, legal issues... I don't know... I don't think that's possible. It is known that the Toruń process was a tool of propaganda. He was held not in 1987, but in 1985, the following year after the murder of Fr. George. According to the information we have, most likely next year But that's the question. not to the Institute of National Remembrance and at the latest at the beginning of 2019 the canonization of Fr. George Popieluszko. There are also books and works by Senator Zarin, who has done a lot to give to the youngest generation who no longer remembers the figure of the patron of Solidarity. Jerzy Popieluszko, and above all his teachings and what is most important in her to overcome evil with good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u193	Thank you. Senator Czesław Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u194	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, you have already answered many of my questions, so that there is only one thing I would like to ask. Namely, the experts of the Sehna Institute in Krakow confirmed the authenticity of the signature of Lech Wałęsa on the commitment to cooperate with the SB and on other documents from so-called. Kiszczak's files. I have this question: shouldn't the IPN be more decisive about this right now to close the case and the dispute around Bolka? [[Bolek is eternally alive.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u195	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u196	This is the legal opinion of one of the best institutes in Poland. I'm going to say that this opinion is very impressive, because the number of material tested, the methodology, the way it was done, the analysis... On these pages almost every letter, each word has been examined. You can say that every word on these pages is assigned to a given person. The author of these words is Lech Wałęsa, the author of this signature is he, the author of another signature is a security officer who has one or another name. That's why it took so many months, but it's been studied so thoroughly. There is no doubt here that in the early 1970's The Institute of National Remembrance clearly says that. Lech Wałęsa was a secret security officer. Even people today... I understand it's hard for a lot of people to accept, don't you? But the behavior of Lech Wałęsa in the early 1970s is a fact. I would like to remind you that the Institute of National Remembrance will always serve the truth, and that the Institute of National Remembrance has published a book that commanded this many years ago, a book by 2 authors. The Institute of National Remembrance was lonely at the time, you might say. He did not do this to destroy or overthrow the legend, but in the name of the truth, because it is the main determinant of our activity, and we will always do so, even if this truth is uncomfortable for someone. We paid a huge price as the Institute of National Remembrance for being alone then, you can say, that's what we preached. Today history, research, among others. This expertise has given us a point. I'm just... forgive me, but I'm gonna say this one sentence of reflection: at my predecessor's address, sleep. Janusz Kurtyki, many undeserved words, sometimes shameful words, and those who spoke those words did not say the word'sorry'. Also, many such painful words came to the workers, to the Institute of National Remembrance, and we did not hear that word. But in the name of any circumstance or political correctness, we will never go back by preaching the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u197	Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There'll be four questions. The first thing I wanted to ask was that you actually answered, because Senator Ryszka asked them. But tell me... There are countries that only deal with their heroes and their past when they leave. I thought that the situation with President Lech Wałęsa should be resolved even in the quietness of the cabinet. That's my opinion and the environment I belong to. The question is therefore: do you not think that exposing this violent attack on President Wałęsa, who has often been very ill, harms the Polish state? That's the first question. Second question. The public, with whom I identify, believes that historical policy has become the property of the right political side, even that, so to speak, even more to the right. I'd like you to comment on that if I'm not right. And the third question is, do you think that the so-called. the historical policy which is imputed to the Law and Justice should be part of the current policy? I believe that historical policy should take place in the offices and studios of historians. The fourth question is... There is also the opinion that only people who have been recommended by the right side of the political scene work at the institute. If that's not true, please make it up to me. The same goes for the council of the monuments that came in, so to speak, within the scope of your tasks. I have no further questions, but I would like to publicly thank Mr Mariusz Becht of the IPN, who has prepared an extremely solid book... I would like it to be clear that I am not on any side, but an extremely solid and professionally published book, which was the work of my mother, Mrs. Alina Fedorowicz. Marshal Borusewicz wanted to read this book. And for that I would like to thank Mr. Mariusz here in the Senate, of course, if I may, Mr. Marshal. I don't know the rules, but I already did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u199	Thank you. The rule is, we ask questions. [[Voice from the room: That's the point.]] I encourage you to prepare for your speeches. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Institute of National Remembrance is not from the right, nor from the left, but from Poland, from the Polish identity and from the Polish heritage. And we will honor all attitudes, all environments that have struggled for free and independent Poland for years. In the Institute of National Remembrance there will be a place for Kazimierz Pużak and representatives of National Democracy. We do not divide Poland's history into left and right. The only criterion is truth. We can argue, but based on facts. As for Lech Walesa, Mr Senator, there are indeed legal solutions in many countries that regulate the release of certain documents only after many years, but I would like to draw attention to the documents we keep. These are not documents of the Institute of National Remembrance, but documents of the communist security apparatus, the most criminal structure of the totalitarian state. We need to know the truth about these documents, or we'll build our future on false, semi-truth. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish People's Republic was not a sovereign state, it was not a democratic state. And I see absolutely no reason to make any secrets from the times of the Polish People's Republic, a state under a foreign power. About the Lech Wałęsa issue... I'll get back to what historians work at the Institute of National Remembrance. We don't check the views of historians of the Institute of National Remembrance. I can assure you that the senator would be surprised, perhaps even positively, that historians of such views work at the Institute of National Remembrance. On the other hand, about Lech Wałęsa, I'll say yes. Indeed, Lech Wałęsa is often subject to criticism and disputes, but he chose such a path. He is a public person, so you should count on such reactions, the more that you use the language that Lech Wałęsa uses, the language that is not suitable for the former leader of I would like to point out that in Poland there will be no shortage of heroes. The Solidarity Movement was a multimillion-dollar movement. Mr. Senator Rulewski, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz remembers these times perfectly. They remember perfectly well that the evaluation of Lech Wałęsa was different even in times... When you look at it today, it seems like he's such a monolith. I remind you that Senator Rulewski was a counter candidate for Lech Wałęsa at the First National Congress of Delegates of Solidarity. Lech Wałęsa then gained... Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Three people were very violent against Lech Wałęsa. But those are the rules of diplomatic and democratic games. It's a good thing we can argue that we can even fight hard. This is the essence of democracy. And Lech Wałęsa then won 50% votes, just or so, in democratic elections in the 9.5 million-dollar Solidarity.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u201	Thank you. [[Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz: I must, Mr. Marshal... You did not answer my question specifically, so I need to complete...)]] Say it again. [[If you'll allow the marshal...]] But of course, I'm only asking briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u202	Mr. President, I asked such a simple question. Do you think it's a struggle? Sorry about that word. Which takes place in relation to the Nobel Peace Prize winner, is consistent with the state of the Republic? Not that Wałęsa with Rulewski or Borusewicz fought for the palm of priority, because that wasn't a matter of... That wasn't my question. Answer me. Is that... Because you think it is. You just said, he was polite to say that there are countries that my... I will quote your words: that they hold this... I am not convinced by your answer that we were a totalitarian country and commune etc., because among these people there were many very decent Poles. But is this the Polish state right? [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: But I apologize very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u203	There you go, if you can answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u204	Of course I can answer that. I don't see the connection, I'm sorry, between the evaluation of Lech Wałęsa and the Polish state rhyme. Well, that's... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u205	But I'm not talking about judgment. Excuse me, Mr... Maybe we don't understand each other. I'm saying that when I'm in the United States, it's a man on the level that I've grown up to tell me that you're some kind of idiot who... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm sorry, I'm pulling out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u206	This is no place for polemics. [[Voice from the room: I disagree.]] The president replied as he said, you may disagree, but he tried to answer. Let's move on. [[I take it back.]] Good. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Senator... Senator Ryszka. Of course, I'll put you on the question, if you like, but now Senator Czudowska is asking you a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u207	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I express my gratitude and appreciation without borders for the work of the Institute and your President. And my question is mundane. The government is working on the 2018 budget. What needs do the Institute of National Remembrance have in this regard, which is how much do you propose that all the tasks you have outlined here should be carried out fairly calmly and with financial security?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u208	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Thank you for your concern, but I think the best answer will be to invite you to the Institute of National Remembrance, and especially to the archives, to a place where our archivists perform their tasks in a way that is often insulting to the basic conditions. We're an institution with the lowest average wages. I invite you to work on the Link, especially since Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk is present in the Chamber. There are mined bones of our heroes, and these are very expensive works. Welcome to the Institute of National Remembrance. We have submitted the relevant documents and it was a great surprise to us that the group, which, it seems, understands the meaning of history... I absolutely do not agree with Senator Fedorowicz that I will refer historical policy to this statement once again. It is party, attached to only one political group. I encourage you to actively work in this area and support the Institute of National Remembrance. What matters is what Senator Ryszka was talking about. We must be very active, ladies and gentlemen, because we have actually believed for too many years that it is enough to turn away from the past and deal with the present in the hope that this will give us a better future. No, it ends with others writing a story for us. Our inaction will result in a dozen years from now. We will be the nation of the perpetrators, among others. World War II. The National Remembrance Institute will never agree to this. And we don't have to have a party or any other historical policy here. All we have to do is show the facts. All we have to do is show the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u210	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask you a question about the proprietary collection. What's the degree of declassification? Well, I heard, and I'm not the only one who's having some problems with the services, because the services haven't withdrawn some of the materials on a legal deadline. What is the situation? Did these materials which the services did not withdraw in due time become public, or did you, Mr President, again put them into this proprietary collection? Because you had to make a decision. What's the situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u211	Mr. Marshal, let me put it this way: according to the Service Act, they had one year after the law entered into force to provide me with recommendations and requests to secrete certain materials which would result in damage to state security. That deadline has expired on 16 June and the relevant services have submitted their requests for secrecy within that time limit. However, after a meeting with the College of the Institute of National Remembrance and the ministers responsible for these services This meeting took place in September, probably on 16 September. We've actually established... Well, we made an appointment, and we gave our word that by March 31st, the service would give us recommendations on the documents they wanted to keep secret. The police didn't do it, but that doesn't mean they haven't filed the bill. Why did we set the deadline on March 31st? Because we wanted the proprietary collection to actually cease to exist until June 16th this year. However, we should put a security clause in place. What's the road to that? These documents, for which the services recommended that the president of the Institute of National Remembrance should give them a clause that was strictly secret, seem to be several thousand files. I can give you the exact data here. And the way forward was that I set up a special committee. Because it is known that there is a great deal of these documents, this material is so much that I am not able to read it. The Commission shall review each of these files and comment on whether or not it agrees with the request for secrecy. It's gonna take us a few more months. I'll follow either the position of the department or the position of this committee. And that's that part of the paperwork. Other documents, which have been in what we call a restricted collection so far, have not reported their recommendation to them, requests for classification have automatically become public since 16 June, only they are not available yet, because our archivists have to do some work to enable them to be entered, properly catalogued... I think this is a process that we will complete within a few months, and in fact this collection will cease to exist. I, ladies and gentlemen... Because there are actually a lot of questions here about whether the institute is in favour of making this proprietary collection completely cease to exist. Well, it's been 28 years since the end of the Polish People's Republic. But we really understand that there are some issues, e.g. concerning the plans of foreign diplomatic missions which are in the same place, of some military infrastructure, communications Although it is also debatable because technology is changing They can still be classified. But in general, we are in favour of this range of secrets from the times of the Polish People's Republic, the non-sovereign state, the communist state, being as small as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u212	Additional question: don't you think there's a mistake in the bill that a distinction should be made between declassifying and making available? Because there is no distinction in the law, therefore declassification is tantamount to making it available. And part of the harvest is declassified, but not available. Well, what's the declassification? It's just... Don't you think there's been a mistake in the bill? Maybe this bill needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u213	No, no, but this is a trial that... As we created the Institute of National Remembrance and took over the files after the Security Service or after the Security Office, they were transported to the Institute of National Remembrance, to the created archives, and it took some time. Right? You have to enter the name of the file into the computer, you have to properly describe it, give the signature. That's the technical issue, that's the problem. I don't see any... We'd get into some kind of... well, we could have this discussion, but I don't think she's... [[No, I don't want to get into a discussion.]] Legal discussion is...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u214	I will respond to this in the discussion. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u215	Thank you very much. I have two questions. First regarding Ukraine, I kindly ask you to return to Ukraine for a moment... As I understand it... [[Mr. Senator, a little louder, if you don't mind.]] ...as far as it is dangerous, as I know, to carry out work in the western Ukraine, in the vicinity of Kharkiv two collective graves associated with Poland have been recognized. The first concerns our compatriots, who at some point decided to be communists and support Stalin, he sent them to Kharkov and murdered them there, and it is a large grave indicated us through the SBU, the Security Service of Ukraine. And the second grave is probably the missing people on the Katyn list. I know from your consul that the Consulate General indicated these locations to you after the SBU pointed them out. Are you responding to such signals and are there any actions in this regard? Which is specifically Kharkov, Ukraine, present time and these two indications. And the second question is: is it possible to really support this truth that you are talking about, the truth about border murders... Why am I asking you this, and why am I talking like this? This year we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the operation of the Vistula, the round anniversary. And, to tell you the truth, in popular media of the nationwide information there is no real information on this subject. In turn there is a lot of information in the local media from Ukrainian environments, which are simply completely false. And, to tell you the truth, I miss any dementia on the part of even the Institute of National Remembrance, to present this situation honestly, according to the truth of Poles. I have the impression that Poland has some Ukrainian complex and we fell into a time when on the one hand we can tell the truth, and on the other hand we do not want to tell it. And that's very important because short, I'm almost done. For natural reasons, we are dealing with the last generation who consciously demands the truth, and for decades this truth has not been remembered. And this is their last time, naturally. Do you see the possibility of starting to talk about it in public?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u216	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u217	I mean. The question... We are not really doing any work in Ukraine at this point. It's related to the situation... As I was saying, here is the director who participated in the talks in Lviv on this subject. And everything indicates that unfortunately in the near future we will not appear in Ukraine if... This concerns this sphere of search and commemoration. Our actions will be impossible there. This is the Ukrainian position. I'm saying here... I can add that the team of the Institute of National Remembrance was almost turned off the road when she was going to Ukraine. This is a very difficult partner. These conversations are very difficult. And as for the reaction to certain statements of the Ukrainian side... The Institute of National Remembrance has published many publications. We published an educational briefcase devoted to Polish-Ukrainian relations. We organized a lot of discussions, we participated in a lot of discussions that took place around the film Volyn. In the same way, an article in the National Remembrance Institute's Biuletyn appeared about the shares of the Vistula. That's what we're talking about. The fact that the media doesn't take on certain subjects... Well, it's not a claim to the Institute of National Remembrance or to our historians who do it. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'll ask you one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u218	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u219	Mr President, but this is one of the most serious... The Institute of National Remembrance is the most serious organization of this type in Poland. Did you, as president, speak to the president of television asking for... At key moments, the key dates for the Polish nation... Did you ask for a 10-minute or 15-minute speech after the main news?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u220	Mr. Senator, I don't know if my speech would change anything, because one-off action like this, I think, doesn't work. Long-term activities are much more effective, such as the Institute of National Remembrance focuses on, working with students, with teachers, getting there with this knowledge. The Institute... scientists dealing with this subject have given many interviews. We have programs in a lot of TV stations. That's where we present our position. We responded very strongly by issuing a statement, a few weeks ago, on what is happening in Ukraine. And since it wasn't picked up by the media, it didn't become the main information... Well, the Institute of National Remembrance doesn't have an influence, not even a claim to such influence as to be able to run one or another station.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u221	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u222	I agree with the President on such a harsh assessment of the security services, but if, in that case, the institution that used the lie, the deception, the forgery... [[Murders!]] ...to enslave other people, you can actually trust. [[Don't trust me.]] Now, a more specific question. Well, today we hear about this expertise. I have previously heard the assurances of the IPN that all documents and all signatures concerning the Wałęsa are authentic in what concerns TW Bolka. Now I hear that after careful examination some are false.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u223	No, Mr. Senator, that's absolutely not what I said. I said that a piece of paper is written in different writings... [[But not from you...]] Here's Lech Wałęsa's handwriting, and here's another sentence. I said that the graphologists who were working on it assigned this text to a given person, and this text of another, that each line was assigned to another author. I was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u224	I don't judge, Mr. President... [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: I was misunderstood. I didn't say absolutely...]] If the marshal can ask me not to interrupt... [[Mr. President, the senator will ask you a question, and you will answer.]] [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Sorry.]] [[And you're in the middle of a dialogue, and you're not asking questions.]] Why don't I ask you a question, okay? [[Sure, ask a question.]] I'm talking about the expertise, the one you referred to, which says that some signatures have been forged, even who forged them. So what's it like? I ask because, at the same time, at a huge meeting during a visit to my district, Lech Wałęsa strongly denied and said that he had expertise that showed that his signatures had been forged. It puts the institute in a bit of a bad light, because once it turns out that everything was supposed to be okay, now it turns out that almost everything, but not everything, and the interested person himself says that from start to finish it's all a fake. So what's the credibility? And then there's the second line. Further documents in IPN resources have been disclosed. A lot of people in my constituency have been listed as secret co-workers. What do we know? We know they had a nickname, from the contents list we know what was there, but we don't know the contents of all the documents. Interested people deny, ask IPN to make these documents available. What does it turn out to be? It turns out that infamia has been announced, the press writes, and IPN is responsible: in six months, you will be able to see your documents by the year. What's taking so long? Do people have to pay such a price if what they say is true?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u225	There you go. Mr. President, is this analysis of the Sehna Institute online? Can you reach it? You put her on the Internet? [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Not yet, I don't think she's here yet.]] Thank you. [[I've got it. I can read you a quote from the Internet right now from this expert report that says that specific signatures have been forged...]] Good. Mr. Senator, you're gonna say something now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u226	Mr. Senator, we just know which ones have been added and which ones haven't. [[Before that, they were all supposed to be...]] But no, Mr. Senator, it's not like that. Mr. Senator, I'm still on the bottom line... [[Bye-bye, Se-na-to-ra...]] I'm still... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm asking for some peace. Senator, don't argue, and the rest of the senators in the courtroom don't get involved. Everyone asks the question, there will be an answer.]] Abstracting from Lech Wałęsa... Mr. Marshal, the essence of history is that sources are being verified. Security Service documents are only one source, they are verified by comparing them with other sources, with relationships. This is how the Institute of National Remembrance has always done and will do so. What the... You say the communist state's security camera produced some false documents. Ladies and gentlemen, the safety camera was a tool for exercising power and control over society. What would be the point of lying to the Security Service by yourself? There wasn't a single fake file found at the Gauck Institute. But much more important is the content of these texts. Back to Lech Wałęsa... Well, there are people who remember that time and Lech Wałęsa was snitching on. And they confirm what was in those documents. These documents are verified. That, for example. On one of the documents is the word "Bolek" unscathed by the hand of Lech Wałęsa, but by the hand of an officer, it only shows how accurate this analysis of the Sehna Institute was, as I say, every sentence, each written word was assigned to a given person. And I think it's past that time to question the reality of the communist security papers. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u228	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have two questions. The first question does not concern the matter of your information, but from the point of view of the Polish state it is very important. I am thinking here of the recent statement by the Ombudsman, who extended responsibility for the Holocaust also to the Polish people. I ignore the fact that in my view this was an irresponsible and extremely harmful statement, and this is a very delicate assessment of these statements. I'd like to ask the president... Because for the first time we had such a situation that a public officer, an important person, representing the constitutional office of the Polish state, publicly spoke in this way. What can in the future be used as an argument also by historical reviewers who are trying to forge the truth about these terrible events from the period of World War II. I would therefore like your opinion on this subject. The second question concerns the reserved set. I understand that the President of 16 June 2017 at 4 p.m. was given the opportunity to declassify from the law those documents which are in a restricted set. Do I get it or not? If so, please say when and to what extent The percentage, because I'm not talking about the file teams right now, I'm talking about the percentage relative to the original reserved stock. It will be declassified and accessible to researchers and journalists? And what's the deadline? Here was the discussion of the President with Marshal Borusewicz... some of these documents, I understand, are declassified, but not available, so it's like they're in some sort of, say, suspension. That's how I figured it out. So I'm asking you here to explain in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u229	It is a matter of a few months, I think that at the latest at the beginning of next year those documents which were not recommended to be classified will be available to the public. I already told you that they have to go through a certain procedure to become available. But those documents that... they're special ops that recommend them. It is not that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance is obliged to agree with these recommendations. We want to approach this as honestly as possible and hence the committee, so that we can examine it thoroughly, lean over each sheet. Of course, the point is that we've had a lot of cases like this, ladies and gentlemen, that something was in a restricted set. These are things that are incomprehensible, because there, for example. There were documents from the 1940s or 1950s. The essence of the task force is that they want the security range to be as high as possible. That's why we use this right. We want to see every page and either agree or not. There's another question. Just because the Secret Service recommends decryption of the file doesn't mean... she's gonna be okay, she's gonna stay top secret, but I think... As I say, it is difficult for me to set a certain date here, Mr. Senator, I really do not wish to give such a date. However, I think the Institute of National Remembrance as an institution He has repeatedly stated that he is in favour of disclosure of these documents, that he is practically in favour of eliminating the reserved collection. Many times we have stressed that this Peerelow umbilical cord cannot bind us 28 years after the fall of communism. I'm asking for a little more patience. We've been waiting 28 years for this, and I think we're gonna wait a few more months. And the second question... Excuse me? [[The first question concerned the Ombudsman's statement...]] Oh, yeah, yeah. I got it. I got it. [[...about the participation of the Polish people in the Holocaust.]] I'm sorry. Mr. Senator, I was asked that question and I said yes... Government officials performing certain functions are required to have elementary historical knowledge. This statement has shown that the spokesperson is deprived of this knowledge. I think he shared that sentence very quickly, because, as far as I know, he apologized for that statement, and apologizing, this time he pointed out that it did not correspond to the truth. The Institute of National Remembrance will never agree with such statements and will react to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I remind you that the President is providing information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National in the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. And now you're asking Senator Jan Rulewski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u231	This is history, that was 43 years ago, but you will undoubtedly agree, Mr President, that this is not about history when your office is summoned to comment on the agential activity of Ambassador Przyłębski. It's been a few months since he's established his agential activity, which he confessed to. The question is: when will the opinion be given on this subject? How long will the Polish ambassador in Berlin represent Polish interests in a way, in my opinion, disdainful? Second question, more optimistic. Has the work on CIA materials transferred to Poland on the latest history of Poland ended, especially the colonel Well, today is the general's day. Kuklinski? As I recall, this work was done by Professor Groszkowski. And a third case, even easier. Does the Institute participate in the celebration of the 100th anniversary of independence? I am also thinking about the possibility of financial support for the celebrations, because the institute has problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u232	Thank you very much. Is that all the questions, Senator? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As far as I know, Ambassador Przyłębski has already received documents on the case. Now is the time for him to respond to them. I think that this issue will be resolved within a few weeks, i.e. The Mirror Office of the Institute of National Remembrance will take the appropriate position on this issue. As for the celebrations... That was the second question? [[It was about research. Has the research work on Kuklinski been completed?]] Oh, I know. I'm sorry. I'm a little tired. These documents, as far as I know, have not been transferred to the Institute of National Remembrance. We don't have any documents produced by the CIA. They may have been transferred to some other institution. We don't have those documents. They didn't come to us. [[Professor Paczkowski investigated it.]] But Professor Roszkowski is not an employee of the institute. [[Paczkowski.]] Oh, Paczkowski... [[He was an employee.]] Of course. But maybe these documents didn't go to the National Remembrance Institute. Historians often travel abroad, conduct query there, obtain copies of materials and bring them here. That's what it looks like. I want to say one thing: there are no documents provided by the CIA at the National Remembrance Institute. As for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of independence, the Institute of National Remembrance... This is a subject for a separate meeting at all. The initiative that the Institute of National Remembrance is preparing in connection with the 100th anniversary of independence. We're a unit. The budget and we will seek more budget resources in Parliament for the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. Of course, 2018 is very important. We can say that next year's tasks will be top priority, so we are already preparing for them. And what will Parliament's decision be on this issue? I hope it's positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u234	Thank you very much. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you about the Link... Maybe not the Link, but the character of Stanisław Sojczynski, now General, when he died, he was captain. He was murdered in Łódź by a colleague, by UB. The wetness has served that purpose. Is there any chance of finding his bones, his temporal remains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u236	Stanisław Sojczyński, a general today, is one of the most beautiful, symbolic figures of the anti-communist underground. ♪ I said ♪ And he's here in the courtroom, Professor Kraut. That we will look for every Polish hero. Until now, we do not know where General Sojczyński's body is, but the Institute of National Remembrance has published many dedicated publications. I hope his remains are found and buried properly. Now we're doing everything we can to make sure that they know... that this resume is commemorated. We are particularly pleased with social initiatives, such as from Radomsk or other cities where the underground Polish Army was operating, initiatives related to commemoration... with the restoration of the good name to General Sojczyński. We are grateful to President Lech Kaczyński for his nomination... In these years... in the middle of the first decade of the 21st century, the change of consciousness began and the return of such characters to our history. We do everything to restore not only the memory of them, but also to ensure that their remains, if found, are properly buried.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u237	Thank you very much. Professor Jan Żaryn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u238	I promise you, these are the last two questions. Namely, by continuing the thread of the link accompanying the senator's question, I would like to know... In 2016, no doubt we had a special situation, there was no work on the Link. The question is whether these months have been used to some extent not only to ensure that the team of Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk present here can return to the Link in 2017, but also to develop a broader methodology, such an institutional methodology of work on other places, both in Poland and abroad. The stage of some internal friction at the Institute of National Remembrance is over. Is this methodology so clear that we can count on the fact that both the Link, Brodno and the Servant, as well as many other, not only Warsaw places, will either be undertaken or work will continue, and we will be able to learn about the next, wonderful, of course, achievements of the team of Professor Szwagrzyk? Was this analysis carried out in 2016? And what will it be like in the next few months and perhaps years? And the second point, that is... when we were improving, I hope. The Polish National Remembrance Institute law in 2016 also raised many questions about whether we would certainly improve everything. And then I replied that perhaps it would be necessary to ask the new president of the Institute of National Remembrance whether the current law actually fulfils, as far as possible, the conditions of the working comfort of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Well, I take advantage of the situation that you are here, and I ask this question: did 2016 and the beginning of 2017 give you an answer, from your perspective, that it should or should not be To improve the existing Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, for example in relation to the relationship between the President and the College in a competent sense? I give this as an example, not by accident, but, of course, this is not the only problem that could possibly exist when it comes to legislative solutions. And one last thing. Referring to previous questions about decommunization, Mr. Senator Czerwinski and mine, I would like to ask you in writing to answer the question of how much, in your opinion, as president of the Institute of National Remembrance, is still to be done when it comes to decommunization of streets. Self-governments are bound by the law. You, I understand, have a tool in your competence. You're not the only one who's actually burdened. To determine whether local governments are implementing the law or boycotting the law. I would very much ask for a written answer to the question of how local governments have implemented this law so far. Someday the local authorities themselves will have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u239	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator... Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, that's the answer I'll give the senator. I'll give the senator that answer in writing. All of our... That's what we've been thinking. Certain, I will say gently, legal imperfections, some issues we will want to improve. This includes: the division of powers of the former council, but not only. But I'll put that in writing. I asked the directors of each office what could be changed in order to improve the work so that there would be work comfort not so much as the president of the Institute of National Remembrance as 2 000 200 employees who work hard at the Institute. As for the Link, the Link is a symbol of the search for our heroes, a great determination in this work. The professor returned to the Link last fall, and now he's finishing the final stage. A few weeks ago, he worked in Bródno. In all these... There were discovered and taken complete skeletons. The current stage of work on the Link is so difficult that it is rare... There were found probably one or two skeletons in their entirety. There we see a decline in these barbaric activities of the communist system in the 1980s. That's where the excavator arrived and this excavator was mined, sprinkled, transported to prepare deep for 3 m graves for nearly 200 officers of the communist apparatus. The determination with which the work was carried out And they do, they show that... everyone, you can say, many meters deep... Almost every gram of land there is sown. The smallest part that remained after the people who were murdered there will not be taken up and the actions that will allow us to identify the heroes, including those we look forward to most, symbols of our resistance after World War II will not be abandoned. Mr. Senator was asking if there was any dispute or... There's no dispute at the memory institute. I was amazed to read these articles about some factions at the Institute of National Remembrance. We sacrifice all our strength to work, to give all this heritage to the young generation, to all those who come for us. Am I missing something? No.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki. You're welcome. [[Jarek, come on.]] Mr. Senator Mammoths, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u242	I'm still... Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Professor! I have a question and I have to ask them, Senator... [[That's too bad.]] Next week will be the seventy-first anniversary of the so-called. Kielce pogrom. I'll start by thanking you. Last year, for the first time, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage together with the Institute of National Remembrance in the area on 4 July held a large scientific conference with scientific staff and experts from Europe on this event. I, a parliamentarians from Świętokrzyskie's land, believe that using such a phrase is harmful to the inhabitants of Kielce. When President Andrzej Duda was in Kielce on 4 July last year, on the 70th anniversary of those events, and he paid tribute to the victims, the residents presented banners with the slogan "Pogrom ubeckie." I would like to thank you for the conference that was held together with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. I am pleased that this year, next week, on 3 and 4 July, the Institute of National Remembrance will hold a 2-day conference in Kielce on its own. The management of IPN in Kielce has the idea that each year such conferences will accompany this event. I have a specific question. Does the Institute of National Remembrance plan to reopen the investigation into events related to the so-called. Kielce pogrom? That would interest me very much. The second question follows a little from the discussion conducted in the environment and from a certain journalistic evaluation. There's a term in publicistics... Here is an example of Germany, which conducts a very clear, concrete state historical policy. This disgraceful speech by the Ombudsman, which we have heard, shows that in Poland we still lack much to pursue a uniform historical policy. I'm curious about the professor's opinion on this. Is cooperation between the Institute of National Remembrance and historical scientific institutes in universities sufficient to develop and present on various occasions such a policy of the Polish state, involving our diplomatic institutions as well? In a word: can we conduct a uniform, compact historical policy of the Polish state? Third line. I'm joining Professor Garyne's motion. I would ask for a written reply on the delay of local authorities in decommunization, removal from the public space of naming and commemoration from the period of the Polish People's Republic. I am particularly interested in the Świętokrzyskie voivodship. I'm looking at this case with concern. When I participate in the sessions of municipal councils, smaller or larger ones, in the context of the upcoming local elections, I simply do not see the enthusiasm for this. There is fear, and in some environments even attempts to translate the Polish People's Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u244	That's what science conferences are for... This is why we are once again holding a conference in Kielce to really explain what happened on 4 July just after the war, so that there is no doubt here. Of course, if there are any facts that will legitimize the reopening of the investigation, then the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals will resume this investigation. Thank you for your appreciation. We're doing it another year, we're doing it next year too, and as many times as the interest and need will be. Well, when it comes to the statements of your spokesperson, unfortunately, the Institute of National Remembrance has no influence on the statements of various people. I think the words of your spokesperson's apologies indicate that, in fact... I don't know why he said those words, but they're embarrassing. I think if he apologized, he understood his mistake. As far as cooperation with scientific communities is concerned, this cooperation is still ongoing. I have already talked about conferences that are rarely prepared by historians themselves working at the Institute of National Remembrance. Well, let's remember that... Ladies and gentlemen, other countries, including our neighbours, take their past very seriously, financing some research by ordering it here, in Poland, or giving grants to some historians. I've had the pleasure of having a discussion with Senator Żarin lately. Well, the man from the room got up and gave concrete examples. I don't remember details anymore, but he mentioned scientists from universities who presented views very distant, most delicately speaking, from facts, contesting the Polish right state or respect for our past, especially this past from the times of World War II. We paid a huge price at that time for not remaining passive. We resisted and learned what two totalitarianisms are. And the brown one, and the red one. Well, unfortunately, the world doesn't know this heritage. What's more, with concern... I did not answer the question about this initiative taken in Brussels, about the matter of this house, in which the history of Poland is presented in a scandalous manner, disdaining all respect for the facts. There was a question about the response of the Institute of National Remembrance. This was also the subject of a meeting with representatives of the Platform of European Remembrance and Conscience. This will be one of the directions of this international initiative. We want to change this exposure, which shows our history in such a scandalous way that it cannot be explained. Well, Henryk Sienkiewicz is shown in the context of the creator of Polish nationalism, Józef Piłsudski as a representative of Polish authoritarianism, almost equal to Mussolini and Hitler, and Felix Dzerżyński as the one who had to respond to white terror, spreading red terror. Well, these are things you absolutely shouldn't agree to. I think that the response of Poland, the Polish state, to such initiatives should be determined. For this passivity we can pay a high price someday, the consequences of this can be serious. If we don't, God forbid, they're in some kind of trouble... Why should Europe give any assistance to such a country, a nation with such a crooked past? This is what I am considering, because you have far more opportunities than the Institute of National Remembrance to take such measures.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u245	Thank you very much, Professor. More questions... Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u246	Senator Mammoths may be protesting, but... [[I'm not saying anything, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...I have a question about the bill we discussed today... [[I'll protest.]] ...and about which you told the Deputy Minister of Culture. You're more likely to do that. Some things, when it comes to applying this decounization law, are clear, but others are not quite. I mean, it's not as clear as it sounds. What to do, for example. With a memorial created by Hasior? It is an artistic installation near Nowy Targ, the title of which is: fallen for the consolidation of folk power. What to do with the monument by Dunikowski on the Holy Mountain of Anna, where in my opinion is the symbol of the Soviet Union, i.e. the sickle and hammer? [[Break the hammer with a sickle.]] Such situations will have to be decided individually by the institute. I have a question about the Hasior installation. It is undoubtedly an artistic installation, but its name, the context of this name is unambiguous. [[Is that the end of the question?]] Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u247	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u248	Some artworks actually... The same situation we have in Olsztyn, there is also a propaganda object Dunikowski, to which the inhabitants of the city are very attached. We stand in the position that... we are absolutely against destroying these kinds of objects. They must either be sent to the museum or there must be clear information about the circumstances in which they were created and what they were used for. I don't see why... We know how much suffering and harm lies behind what was propaganda called the preservation of people's power. These are the rule of terror, these are the rule of lawlessness, and it is not only against those formations which have become the icon of the young generation, the steadfast Soldiers of the Cursed. Here I remind you of the history of legal opposition from that time, the Polish People's Party. There was a rehearsal, using a ballot... The West has promised us that free elections will be held. This was the order of the Yalta conference. But this promise was not kept. It can be said that the election campaign to parliament at that time is 150 victims, people murdered by the fixers of the folk power, are thousands of activists of the Polish People's Party, who... Only in the Cracow Voivodeship 2 thousand activists and sympathizers of the Polish People's Party went to prison, and this voivodeship was small at that time. I will remind you that the people who were interned after 13 December in three voivodships, the small ones, i.e. New Sądecki, Tarnowski and Kraków, were about 350. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, what is behind the statement that folk power was established in the 1940s, in the 1950s. Here it cannot be from an independent Polish country of any kind... We will be celebrating next year, ladies and gentlemen, the century of regaining independence, and this is where we need to be consistent. That's not the question, but I'm going to ask, who are we going to worship? Or, among other things, General Świerczewski, who marched to Warsaw in 1920, but in the Bolshevik army, not in the Polish army, which under Radzymin stopped this army at Ossow and thus saved the whole of Europe... However, I would be determined in such actions that we must be consistent here. Our point of reference must be our struggle for freedom, also the one in the Solidarity, the struggle for independence, we cannot be guided by any sentiments behind the Polish People's Republic. I will remind you that after regaining independence in 1918, our compatriots, who knew what was the essence of this, in 1924. They destroyed the Russian council or temple standing here, but they knew that the essence of this council was not really prayer, but to show that so far Russian imperialism has reached. They knew there couldn't be a free state in which such buildings were built. I think we have to try to go this way, even though sometimes they're difficult decisions, and they're resisting.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u249	Thank you very much, Professor. I don't see any more questions. Excuse me, Mr. President... Does anyone else want to ask a question? You're welcome, Professor Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u250	Mr. President, a very brief question. I read about cooperation with non-governmental organisations and I don't see a scout organization here, and there was a time when contacts were very intense, so to speak, activated and this cooperation was interesting. Just in one sentence, please, because I can see that it's already very tired, but please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u251	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I think this is an oversight. We and the Polish Scouts Association and the Polish Scouts Association work together. It is with the ZHR that we intend to prepare together one of the elements of the celebration in 2018, under the motto "Day One," to show how, when in various regions of Poland this independence came. Some she was in before, others later. Here, Boy Scouts are our natural partner and coworker. I can only say that last year the monograph of two of our employees, among others, was honored with the title of the history book of the year. Professor Mark Wierzbicki, the Association of Scouts of the Republic. It was as if a natural partner, and even more so the history of this scouting, the great school of Polish characters... And in connection with 2018 there will be many initiatives to recall the role of that generation of Polish Boy Scouts in the work of regaining independence and defending this independence later, over a period of 3 years between 1918 and 1921.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u253	Thank you very much. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Actually, it's gonna be the last two questions, maybe it's summing up. What do you think, Mr. President, how do you feel... The point is, do you have the right support for your actions outside, for example? on Ukrainian, foreign policy of Poland, i.e. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Because it would just be enough to apply symmetry... On the one hand, I read in your report that it was agreed to exhumations for the Ukrainian side in Niwki forest near Lubaczow, and on the other hand the same Ukrainians or similar ones block our exhumations in 3 villages in Volyn. I take it there's no diplomatic response to this? Well, there should be one. That's one thing. Secondly, let us also hit ourselves a little bit in the chest, we as legislative bodies. In the Seym for two years, and certainly for one and a half years, there has been a novel of the Act on IPN, which is supposed to penallise issues related to the use of the phrase "Polish extermination camp" or "Polish death camp" and does nothing about it. Mr President, shouldn't you simply appeal both to the legislative chambers and to the government to have more help?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u255	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Just a few days ago, I made such an appeal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, specifically to Minister Waszczykowski, to give us support in our activities. In fact, we have such a total, you can say, blockage. It looked different before; it is a matter of the last weeks or months. Clearly, this is where we put it. If there is really such a reaction on the Ukrainian side, then we will not consent to exhumations in Poland. And that's where we're gonna lead a determined... It is our position that is very determined. Of course, we will be happy to benefit from any diplomatic support, including the support of the Senate of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u257	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you so much for the comprehensive answers to your questions. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Szarek, has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by senators Jan Żaryn and Jarosław Rusiecki. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Jan Zarin to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've been through these last few hours in a very interesting way, in human terms, because once again it turns out that the Institute of National Remembrance is a very important institution. In addition, once again the president of this institution was able to show us how this one of the most important institutions of the Polish state works. And this should, of course, above all, be very satisfying and satisfying. I hope that what I am saying right now can also be treated as a pebble in the backyard of our colleagues and our colleagues from the Civic Platform who claim At least in the Seym, fortunately in the Senate, we have never heard such a voice as to be clear. That this is one of the institutions to be wound up as soon as possible. I think that our debates about the work of the Institute of National Remembrance will be a strong argument to the public that the Institute of National Remembrance is a very necessary institution and that the Institute of National Remembrance is in good hands. And that's what I'd like to say, express very, very satisfying. I hope that the applause that accompanied the outgoing and tired president will somehow compensate him for the effort. And now I would also like to say that every next team running the Institute of National Remembrance has its individual challenges and 2016 was a transitional year in the sense that it was difficult to define what this new nature of the Institute is. But I would like to offer you a formula for this new hand, as regards the Institute of National Remembrance, which should be increasingly visible in 2017, in 2018 and in subsequent years, because indeed, just like the whole of Poland, and the IPN since this year has been entering more and more into the period, you can say, historically unusual because of the extraordinary anniversaries that will accompany us. In this connection, I propose that two words be a specific image of the Institute of National Remembrance: active expansion. This would be very desirable, I hope, also from the perspective of the Senate and the Sejm, i.e. those Chambers which are to answer to a large extent the question of what should be the budget for the Institute of National Remembrance in 2018. Active expansion means a large budget, it also means that the Institute of National Remembrance should take on itself, but only under certain conditions, a very serious role in preparing all of us and the world for these events, which will be particularly linked to two dates: 2018 and 2020. This active expansion concerns these 2 parallel important directions of activities: IPN outside and IPN inside Polish society. This active expansion, in my opinion, should not only make the Institute of National Remembrance very active in supporting whether it is the actions of the President, or the activities of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, who are responsible for preparing especially for this forthcoming anniversary, in 2018, but also the Institute itself internally, I believe, should create an operational group consisting of a part of the management and selected figures, which in the IPN would draw up such a clear programme of these external and internal celebrations for 2018. At the same time, it seems to me that especially, perhaps paradoxically, the IPN is predisposed to highlight this programme in an international context. After these twenty years of independence, we see very clearly that we have neglected a lot of things, our generation after 1989 has neglected a lot of issues. Today we are in a good place when it comes to the world's awareness of what happened in Poland in the 20th century, at least. compared to 1990, but we can still tell ourselves that we have neglected and it is high time that in our generation, and the leadership of the IPN belongs to the same generation, such omissions are no longer done. We will not have the second time in 2018 and we will not have the second time in 2020. So I very much appeal to you to prepare for the celebration of these events in matter, which is given to the IPN by definition and by law. On the one hand, it is an active scientific expansion that would serve to ensure that scientists, this world elite in various countries of the wider West, were forced to understand what happened in 1918, what happened in 1920, and to what extent those events also constitute our present day. On the other hand, it is also about educational activities, which can go very deep, which can take into account the use of even our Polonia and what is of great value, i.e. the possibilities of Polonia, whether it's American or Canadian, and I'm talking about the two biggest ones that exist in the world. In order to support this education, it is precisely so that it can be further developed in terms of understanding in the wider public space of our past history. I also think that the Institute of National Remembrance is as part of this active expansion undoubtedly as predisposed as possible to those internal actions which will complete the decommunization process where this process is possible to carry out and complete. Because we lost that time again in the 1990s, we didn't have a political decommunization lesson. But we can finish this decommunization in public space, and also finish this decommunization that involves our historical consciousness. On your shoulders, among others. is placed something like a fact, which is obvious, i.e. The fact that we have to rebuild to a large extent ethos of solidarity, the generation that has won to a large extent... Because just as in 1920 we defended Europe against Bolshevism and its experience, so the generation of Solidarity has protected Central and Eastern Europe from the longer functioning of communism in these areas. And regardless of how strongly some people themselves have thwarted us in the 1990s and 2000s this ease of showing ethos of solidarity... Here, of course, I mean, unfortunately, also President Lech Wałęsa and how much he has made his life and behaviour difficult for us in relation to this life story this way of regaining ethos of solidarity for the world. Nevertheless, we must do this within this immediate or rather ongoing term of office of yours, Mr President. Why now? Because now is actually the time for this decommunization of public space, which will show us, Poles, where was the truth and where was the betrayal. And maintaining the ethos of Solidarity, this great movement, will then be beneficial for Polish society, when Poles themselves will rediscover that they are proud of this ethos of Solidarity. But we must first be proud of ourselves so that then what will happen in 2020 will happen with the anniversary of the 1920 Battle. In 2020 we will be proud that we had ancestors who protected Poland and Europe from Bolshevism. But are we proud that we have protected Central Europe from the long, longer duration of communism? I feel like today's Polish society... [[Time.]] ...didn't grow up to be so... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...pride. It didn't grow up to be that proud. This is the role of the Institute of National Remembrance so that it will grow up so that on December 13 of the next year it will not be so that nearly 50% of Poles will tell that General Jaruzelski was right to introduce martial law. This is a big challenge. This is the active expansion that should accompany you in the coming years. And our role, the Senate and the Sejm, is to make it easier for you, provided you give us a chance and tell us how much money you really need. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u259	Thank you very much. I'll ask Senator Czesław Ryszka to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear President, I remember when you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Andrzej, don't bother me, because I want to say something to the president right now. Mr President, I remember last year, you took a vow in the Sejm on 22 July and said that the Institute of National Remembrance is a special place whose task is to preserve and transfer the memory of Polish heritage. You also added that IPN does not work for itself, but works for future generations. In another statement, the President referred to the activities of the IPN in his predecessor's day, thinking that he had not used the full knowledge and capabilities of the Institute's employees. I agree with you that, in fact, the institute has many excellent historians, lawyers, prosecutors. And this should produce both greater scientific achievements and external activities. Of course, I do not want to compare the activities of the Institute for the previous and the current President. That would require extensive analysis, and besides, you've only been president for less than a year. However, I am impressed by your diligence and all the staff of the institute. The first thing to be seen when you read the information presented here is the vast amount of books published, the number of conferences and scientific sessions held, exhibitions, meetings in schools. In a word, a great deal of activity, which, you have to say it directly, belongs to the Institute's primary mission. On the one hand, it is a prosecutorial pawn, prosecuting communist crimes, but on the other, the pawn of education of Poles, and especially the education of the young generation just about our difficult history. Thanks to you, this historical knowledge finally reaches the teachers. It gradually appears in school textbooks. It's popularized in all possible ways. I know that a series of lectures prepared jointly with the Ministry of National Education for teachers and in cooperation with teachers' vocational training centres is very popular. It is thanks to this that IPN disseminates knowledge about the Polish underground state, about Kresów, about the operation of the Polish NKVD, about immigration, about the apparatus of repression in the Polish People's Republic. It is through this cooperation that the Institute provides teachers with materials that allow them to present matters that are not present or not present at all in school textbooks. It is with the hope that it will change, that it will enter into the new software base, that it will remain forever. Of course your institute will not replace the school, but it can well prepare this educational, educational, historical offer, which is a very important part of your activity. The best evidence of this widespread popularization of history is the discovery of heroes, solid soldiers, which is all that connects the work of Prof. Krzysztof Szwagrzyk's team. Let me remind you... I don't know if that's true, but it was close that during the reporting period the same team of professors was dissolved or the work on the Link was stopped. That is why I wish the team, by the way, to find the remains of the heroic captain Witold Pilecki and so perfectly educate the Polish society about the Soldiers. [[Deputy President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Krzysztof Szwagrzyk: Thank you.]] I would like to thank the Institute for issuing a collection of documents from Georgian archives concerning the Polish operation. It is important to highlight this international activity Recently from the Vatican Archives on the publication of materials from the collection of Kazimierz Papa, the last ambassador of the Second Polish Republic to the Holy See. I'm staying on the subject of historical education. I am very pleased that among the new tasks of the Institute is to counter the dissemination in Poland and abroad of information and publications about false historical content that harm or defame Poland. Of course, I mean this false accusation of Poland's participation in the crimes of the Holocaust, i.e. the so-called. Auschwitz lie. I do not have to add, because actually in the press release we meet with this everyday, that every day our country is confronted with an aggressive policy created as if a new memory of the neighbouring countries of Germany and Russia. The lie about the Polish extermination camps, seems, is impossible to exterminate. In this context, the Institute's excellent move was to include on your website information about German extermination camps and concentration camps in Polish, English, German, French, Bulgarian, and to include about 8.5 thousand names of the SS crew of Auschwitz camp. Anyone who says it was a Polish camp today, let them read the sound of those names, see who worked there. It is also important that these résumés are accompanied by about 350 judgments against some of the SS commando members after the war. And this is what needs to be emphasized, the effect of the activities of the Branch Committee on Crime Pursuit against the National Polish Institute of National Remembrance in Cracow. We look forward to complementing this web page with other camps. In this context, I would like the IPN in this new formula to further inform about the methods, places and perpetrators of crimes committed against the Polish people, as well as to support social projects aimed at creating patriotism and national identity. In other words, the Institute of National Remembrance, contrary to what some senators of the Civic Platform have said here, is to be the main institution of the historical policy of the Polish state. I would add that at this Senate meeting we are adopting a Senate law on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. I do not need to add how much the period of communism destroyed Polish history and historical heritage. It was a kind of spiritual poison, from which many cannot detoxify themselves, saying so frequently. This poison continues in the minds of Poles until today. And it is our duty to detoxify Polish history now. For this we have just the right social climate, we have an excellent institution, which is IPN, and above all we have whom to convey this because a new generation of Poles has grown, which cannot live in a lie. By the way, we are very much counting on the support of the Institute of National Remembrance, which will resolve certain such questionable matters. Historical education will certainly also serve to extend the scope of research into the disbanded restricted collection. Thanks to this, Poles learn the truth about people who already in the new sovereign Republic, means after 1989, instead of serving the Polish state, or using foreign governments, or building their own property at the expense of others. I would add that, so far, the disclosure of this collection has been blocked, as the President said here, by the argument of the State's security threat, which would result from the disclosure of the proprietary archive stock of IPN. Only that without its disclosure we will not be able to fully know our own history, and as you know, incomplete truth is a complete lie. Thanks to the ratification of the illustration, we know that the chairman of the strikes in August 1980 on the Coast and Silesia, who then signed social agreements in Gdansk, Szczecin and Jastrzębie, agreements with the communist authorities, which formed the way for the establishment of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) to be found in the acts produced by the Security Service as secret collaborators. To conclude, I wish the Institute, by digging into history and deceiving it, to do so always for the present and for the future, for the truth that belongs to us and even more for future generations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Professor! Representatives of the Institute of National Remembrance! I would like to begin by thanking the President for his insightful and very valuable information about the Institute's activities in 2016. During the debate, in questions and answers, you could see... This was the best proof of how much the Institute of National Remembrance needed Poles and our history. It is also needed for the Polish State as an institution which carries out its statutory tasks. The idea of establishing the Institute of National Remembrance was an idea that was realized in the late 1990s. There are a few other friends here who have contributed to this. At that time we voted, whether in the Senate or in the Seym, for the applicable law, which already caused numerous discussions and debates. Now we see that we have fruit. It is a fruit that covers almost 20 years of institutional activity It's almost one generation. We have great potential: several hundred historians, outstanding experts in history, and not only history, from the end of the 19th century to current times. We have a record of publishing, we have an educational record, we have a record of other statutory activities of the Institute of National Remembrance. I'm thinking of the magnifying office, as well as the crime investigation. It is clear that this was a good decision that the chronological scope of the operation of the Institute of National Remembrance has been extended and covers events since 1917. In this way, a part of the ideal foundations of the institute, which is primarily the study of communist activity, was covered by the overall research, counting from the so-called. The great October revolution. Well, it was a logical consequence... The consequences of this revolution were translated into what was happening in the period of World War II and later in the period of the Polish People's Republic. And it's all coming together. Of course, we also had to deal with Nazism, or the second totalitarianism, which traversed Polish lands. In this respect, too, the Institute of National Remembrance plays an outstanding role in examining this fragment of history and in the main commission, continuing what started in previous times, and what concerns documenting and, above all, the prosecution of those criminals who committed crimes on Polish citizens, and not only Polish citizens. High Izbo, I think it would be worth paying attention to what Senator Czudowska mentioned in one of her questions, namely that the Institute of National Remembrance still has new tasks. Well, we as legislators put them on the institute. Senator Ryszka reminded us that today we debated the bill concerning monuments and obelisks. We have recently passed a law on the streets through Parliament. These are further obligations imposed on the Institute of National Remembrance, because in both these laws the opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance is an important element of the actions undertaken. However, And that's what we have to admit with pain. The financial resources that are needed by the institute do not follow this. I am aware of how difficult it is to gather so many outstanding specialists at the institute, who have unique knowledge and great achievements. Nevertheless, the level of their remuneration differs, as the President mentioned in his speech, from the standards in other public institutions that we have in Poland. And this requires some deeper reflection on our part and the creation of such a framework in the budget of the state, which would enable the full implementation of the statutory tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance. We see that also in international terms, this was also part of our debate. It's what's called the so-called. historical policy... Whether that's the right name or not, I don't want to speak right now. A separate seminar on this subject could be done, but the concept of historical politics has just come to light. And please note that some in Poland say that this is not necessary at all, and yet all the countries I know conduct historical policy And the smaller ones, and the bigger ones, and the biggest ones. Each of these countries has a historical policy. Historical policy is an important element of something bigger: promoting the country, presenting the values that this country would like to disseminate on the international stage, as well as relations with its neighbours in terms of the historical experiences we have. And from this point of view, the Institute of National Remembrance plays an extremely important role as an instrument... maybe As an institution of an independent democratic Polish state. And in this respect, the Institute of National Remembrance should be seen not only as a research, educational, scientific, investigative, mirroring institution, but also as part of the Institute. or in the context of the protection of memorial sites, but also as an institution that carries on its activities in this respect. I also asked your president about the scandalous statement of the Ombudsman, Dr. Bodnar, who unfortunately I hope I'm wrong. It will have repercussions in the international arena. In my deep conviction And I would also like to express my apologies on the social network. Because this statement was made in public space, at least in the same medium in which it was uttered, the full expression of the author of these words, which are extremely harmful and extremely irresponsible, should appear. High Izbo, I would like once again to thank the President, all his colleagues and the staff of the Institute of National Remembrance, that despite these sometimes appearing cases, these labels that the Institute is political or historical police, various types of invectives They are extremely harmful and harmful. The State is pursuing its mission, addressed to its employees and institutions themselves. I would like to wish you further success and that from the Polish state, i.e. from state institutions and from the state budget, you will have the support that is needed for your statutory and very necessary activities for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u263	Thank you very much. I'll ask Senator Jan Rulewski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! The Senate, regardless of its political composition in far-reaching correspondence or even in polemics with the Sejm, has always stood on guard... expressing the need for the Institute to function and secure it with appropriate means. Expressing an opinion on his activities, what we're doing today... I would add that, while participating in the expression of these opinions several times, we have consistently adopted reports on the Institute's activities without any comments. Let it sound like a polemic voice to all the voices that in the past, but even now, are talking about the need to liquidate the institute. I believe that the institute is a distant echo of what was born in the hall of Olivia. At that time, under the siege of the convention, he announced that, in the face of the perpetrators of political crimes in 1956, 1976, the union would demand the establishment of a moral tribunal. That's all he could say, but that's all he said. The people of the generation of solidarity, when they today express their support for the very idea of the institute's creation and operation, are consistent with the promises made earlier. These promises are beyond expectations. However, I must admit that this does not respond to everyone's expectations. The desire of the majority was decommunization, and the institute is a version of light decommunization, because, in fact, its basic activity is mirroring. Let us add that in some cases only the world has been able to introduce full or partial decommunization. We, in turn, have limited ourselves in our actions essentially to judging, i.e. removing the influence of agents on the democratic rule of law. The formula was growing, and today it has enormous potential. It is 2 000 300 employees, including almost 300 researchers, and in my opinion the budget is the largest among this type of institution in Europe, because it is almost 300 million. I would add that the Senate has always defended this budget by making amendments. However, it seems to me that the limits of the Institute's operation would require some redefining or resetting. This was not served by the recently adopted, substantially amended law, which, apart from broadening the scope of the subjective tasks, with Senator Zarin, caused further hunger for action, of which the senator, as a well-known historian, had to comment, although this was not due to political craving, but to a desire for historical knowledge. This means that this task cannot be carried out on the basis of this law, within the framework of these budgetary appropriations. Let us remind you that the institute is not a research institute as to its essential content. I do not want to offend Professor Szwagrzyk, but a significant part of the tasks he carries out, too, in my opinion based on needs, which confirms the public's interest and support for this type of action, is unscientific. In many cases, the Institute is responsible for tasks that no one else wanted to undertake. Historical research. Is anybody in normal countries? I'm talking about the OECD zone. Is he setting up a state institute for historical policy? Historical policy runs the whole country... i.e. the whole nation through universities, associations and other institutions, not the state. Fortunately, the bill does not include an obligation to conduct historical policy, as some Members and Senators would like, because then we would only have one historical policy variable in electoral tact. And historical policy, if one can assume that such a thing exists, if it is to be offensive, is too difficult a task on the shoulders of only one institution. I would understand it as the one that is expressed by the awareness of the state, the nation, spread across all its institutions. Therefore, in my questions I always make this reservation not to centralise historical issues in one institution, to undertake another, Mr President, cooperation, as observed, e.g. by commissioning other institutions within the framework of state money... by launching grants for people who are passionate about investigating various problems. You mentioned conferences and seminars, but that's not enough when it comes to And you know it. For cooperation in the field of research. E.g. This good activity was actually carried out in the field of the East, Poles in the East, the Charter Center. And another less known example is the study of communism. In 3 countries, one of my colleagues rejected this proposal. The Berlin universities, Warsaw universities, Prague universities and, as it was said, even Moscow universities, are doing joint research on the essence of communism in these many countries. Unfortunately, this initiative was not taken because of the Polish fault. However, I will return to the report. Today, the Institute is performing tasks that not only no one can do, but which it must do because the legislator has decided so. This is realization. at least In memory of 5 laws, 5 laws, on which much depends on the fate of Poles: their moral evaluation, their right to retirement and pension, to provide, to documents, to documents about disappearance, murder or even burial, to honor, but also to documents documenting the disgrace of many of us compatriots. And this activity is especially needed... even in present times, when it seems that Poland is very independent and very free, because globalization processes confront national, historical, identity, language affiliation with our security, which determines not only history, but also behaviour throughout history. The Institute is a place where the weight works, which determines what was worthy and what was disgraceful. And that's what we need. This is necessary because if all such importance were to be removed from life, it would be important to know who has how much money and who doesn't have it. I am strongly protesting this and I am convinced that the institute will remind us of all this. The Institute runs something that unfortunately universities don't run. He's leading a general education. Yes, universities educate, but students. And they don't do it everywhere, and they don't do it in the same dimension. And there is no universal education for those who have already graduated or will never start. I'm even talking about high school students where there's no history. The institute here is an opportunity. The Institute is also an opportunity for those who want to come out of tight concepts and from ignorance in terms of... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...the fates of yours and your community. He can complement numerous initiatives. I'm pointing it out again. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Marshal. In order to carry out important, necessary tasks that will undoubtedly strengthen the European and Polish dimensions of our society, it is necessary to reflect on the new functions and tasks of the Institute. Like I said at the beginning, I'm gonna protect the institute from its liquidations. I will support his tasks rationally. I will encourage such organizational forms that work is done in the most optimal dimension. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u265	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! What I'm trying to say is that it's bad if such an important institution, which has been called to investigate some very delicate cases, doesn't go in the middle and leans over to the wing. The Institute leaned to the right wing a year ago. Let me remind you that a year ago we selected members of the board of the institute, bodies that supervise the functioning of the institute, but above all supervises the research. I reported it then. It was my initiative. Two candidates, Professor Anthony Dudek and Andrzej Kołodziej. They're both unrelated to my current group. The same was true in the Seym. Other groups reported candidates in the Sejm. But I'm going back to what was in the Senate. Who was then elected to the council in addition to the candidates of Law and Justice? Has anyone been included? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, my assessment is the consequence of such elections. If previously the council or institute, having a specific and developed style, tried to centrifugate its assessments It's about personal centering, but now... These are the consequences of this decision, which I think Mr President has also had an influence on. If none of the opposition, of the opposition candidates... After all, neither Andrzej Kołodziej, the activist of the Fighting Solidarity, nor Antoni Dudek is associated with the opposition. And such people were not taken into account, and those with extreme views entered the council. Excuse me, but that's my grade today. All the more so because I hear about the search of investigations, cases difficult for us Poles, which seem to be over. And they should be finished because we have to move forward. I hear there's been an investigation into the Jedwabne Pogrom investigation into the Kielce Pogrom. What are we supposed to think about this? It seems that this person, this IPN employee, who has been conducting research on Silk and has come to the conclusion that it is the locals, Poles, our compatriots who have done this pogrom, who no longer works there. We cannot accept the principle of a priori that only others have done evil to us, and we or our fellow countrymen have done only good. Unfortunately, history And here you don't need to be a researcher, it's more complicated, especially the history of World War II. This does not mean that... The former National Army, most Poles in this terribly difficult, extreme situation became heroic, but we cannot in the name of the truth fail to notice also those very negative things, for which unfortunately we must be ashamed. I was interested in World War II for many years, I graduated from the history department, but I have to say that the Silk case surprised me. It was completely beyond our consciousness, also beyond my consciousness as a historian by education, as a man who dealt with these matters also in the opposition. Historical policy. The IPN has an historical policy in the Act. And if you don't... But I think so. I'm gonna argue because I remember that bill. This kind of action... I keep hearing about historical politics, interpretation of history. It is run by IPN, of course, but also by other entities, e.g. Ministry of National Defence, i.e. Minister Macierewicz He's clearly working here. By Members and Senators. We have an example: today the Senate committee voted a draft anniversary resolution on the appeal of the government of Jan Olszewski, which is called an assassination. And the whole story is described from this point of view, i.e. Of course, it was an assassination attempt. But the cancellation a year later of the Suchock government, which also lost the majority, was no longer an assassination. Well, I remember that time, just the government of Jan Olszewski lost most of the Seym. The government of Suchocka, like a year later. But of course, here you can create some stories, stories of this kind, that it was an assassination by appealing in the Seym vote. It is so that I understand why on 4 June 1992 and the cancellation of the government of Jan Olszewski is a very important element for the Law and Justice or for some of the people of this group, and the 1989 elections are less important, and the 4 June elections are less important. The appeal of the Olszewski government and this resolution are to obscure those in part free elections, at least to the Senate, also from 4 June. Yeah, it's a coincidence. There's a coincidence of dates. The disaster in Smolensk sends Katyn. Is it conscious? Yes, Katyn's messages. In the message, in what we do, Katyn, murder on our officers is no longer the most important thing. And the difference is huge. The Soldiers of the Cursed are obscuring the National Army. Well, what are the Enchanted Soldiers anyway? They are different people and different groups, differing in their ideologically different methods, etc. NSZ, WIN and all this goes under the banner: Soldiers Cursed. And the National Army is gone. Well, it's not even post-war underground. It's the Poak underground... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And this kind of procedure. I don't like them very much. I don't accept these treatments. Historical policy. In historical politics... what is this historical policy? How much in historical politics of historical truth and how much in politics? So that's bending facts to political needs. I think so. Especially since I hear here: the truth will set us free, the truth is the most important That the historical truth is the most important! Yeah, I agree, right, not historical politics. Mrs. Marshal, my time is up, right? I'm signing up for the next five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u267	All right, Mr. Marshal. [[And I'll sign up for 10.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Please, Senator Robert Gawel. You're welcome... [[Then maybe you're a marshal.]] [[Okay, I'll just be five minutes. Because I want to say what I have to say.]] All right, Mr. Marshal. There you go. [[Yes, may I?]] Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u268	It's what I'm worried about in the IPN. Because on the one hand, it is good that IPN raised its historians, but on the other hand I think it is very bad that IPN does not offer grants for research and publications for others, in order to diversify the possibilities of research and writing. I understand that when a historian sits in the archives, he's best placed to write another job. But I don't see any activity here in grants, in that they study and write others. From universities, from research institutions... There are those who take care of it. Finally, relations with Ukraine, with the Ukrainians. Don't be surprised. We've discussed this a number of times here. If in public, the monument in Hruszowice breaks down in a demonstration manner It is illegal, but I know that there are also illegal commemorations in Ukraine. These are the consequences. Mr. President, the war on the graves is absolutely unacceptable. If they won't allow us to exhume there, we won't allow us in Poland... We shouldn't use this kind of method, it's not, it shouldn't be a method that will be a tool for us. We are in such a culture that death and grave, even if it is the tomb of an opponent, is taken care of. So I'm appealing for reason here, and please... I hear senators here... Well, well, senators, why are you surprised? You caused this situation yourself and now you're surprised that the IPN has trouble commemorating, going to Ukraine, etc. Of course, research should be carried out there, and it must be brought to some modus vivendi, so that you can conduct research there so that you can go there, which is to bring... If not at the level of two institutions, then certainly at the level of government, prime minister, at the level of Ukrainian and Polish presidents, this should be considered. Activation of this highest level is probably necessary, because each other in these historical matters, it would seem, cemeteries, burials, memorials, we blocked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u269	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Robert Gawel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The uprising of the IPN was fundamental not only to our historical knowledge about contemporary history, but above all to our ability to talk about the fact that we are finally building a community as a nation. I think we should ask people who have dealt with employees of the Institute of National Remembrance for many years, as the National Remembrance Institute helped in education. I remember that when it comes to contemporary history of Poland, about the level of textbooks that were written, it really required changes and needed extensive research. After the establishment of IPN in schools, we felt a significant improvement, it was a coup. Young people from the educational level, perfectly prepared, people who had knowledge, also had new tools through which they reached the minds of the young generation, school students, and were talking about contemporary history. And I don't think anybody's gonna accuse the educational pawn today that he was a politician. It is from the school side that we need to look at from the teachers' side what re-evaluation took place after the establishment of the Institute of National Remembrance. And I think all the pawns operating in the IPN are perfectly fulfilling their role. I don't know why there's such charges that there's a politicisation that we're supposed to talk about historical policies. After all, the history of Poland is one, and such a state institution, which is the Institute of National Remembrance, is supposed to bring this story closer to the whole society. Ladies and gentlemen, today I had the opportunity... Let me tell you more: I had the honour of being on the Link and an hour and a half listening to Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk, who talked about the research that is being conducted there. Ladies and gentlemen, we may not be aware, but there are fundamental things happening to build our identity as a nation. And these studies are carried out in an extremely professional way, not only with the help of scientists from various fields, archaeologists, anthropologists, lawyers, etc., but also with the help of. and this is an element that gives us optimism for the future. With the help of volunteers who also come from outside Poland, from England, etc. They devote their time there, in these pits, to extract the truth, just the truth, to pass it on to the Poles and to tell the world about it. They restore there the proper order of things, because until these, I would say, communist remains were lying in the alley of the well-deserved, and those who were and are heroes to us were lying under the fence, it was not normal Poland. And don't be surprised that the young generation demands it. For them, it is so important to restore the memory of those who have fought to the end, even though they have fought without hope. They're young, they're 18, 19 years old. ♪ Like those guys back there ♪ And they want a clear message from us, from the representatives of the Polish state. I think it's getting less and fewer people will be daring to undermine the validity of the IPN. I also think that those workers, all those who serve Poland, who work, should be fairly rewarded. Therefore, Mr President, please request this budget for next year, and I assure you that many senators will support these positive changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u271	Thank you very much. And Senator Stanisław Rooster. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. President! Dear guests! The nations that lose their memory lose their lives, said one of the greatest Poles. I've been watching this fight for a long time, so the IPN doesn't exist, so the IPN won't be on the map of the world. Dear Members, I publicly thank you, Mr President, for all the employees of the IPN. Senator Gawel said a lot. I can say this: your young representatives from high school go to high school. I can name names. After all, it was the sacred memory of Mr Kurtyka who started going to schools with me in Małopolska. High school kids were very interested in watching movies, trampling, and running in competitions. And there actually were not overlooked AK soldiers, because there were awards for students who would find graves of AK soldiers. Ladies and gentlemen, many people are critical of the heroes of WiN. But why is someone afraid of the IPN? If he wasn't a traitor, if he wasn't a folksdog, if he wasn't an agent, then there's nothing to worry about. People at meetings in Małopolska said to thank you for joining us for discovering these heroes. As Senator Gawel said, the traitors of the Republic were lying in Powązki. They were buried in honorable places for spending, signing death sentences on innocent people. Sometimes even as in Opole, no judgments were given. There's 200 young boys... They're supposed to be going abroad. Two plugs were put in there and the whole Communist elite came to watch these heroes get murdered. Are we Poles? Here almost all are of the Solidarity, we are to look at this... Traitors from the utensils dressed these heroes in German uniforms to ridicule them, and they buried them somewhere in dumpsters. Are we supposed to be watching this? I.P.N. people, don't worry, do your job. I repeat, do your job. I am eagerly waiting with my wife and children for the day when news will appear in the media that Sergeant Pilecki's body has been found... [[Voice from the Room: Rotmaster.]] The Rotmaster of Pilecki, a hero who had rice stuffed into his mouth before he died, and then shot him in the back of the head. You're heroes. Don't worry about the attacks. Don't worry about the idea of liquidation. And, as I say, dull Communist agents, dull the cesspool. Tell the truth about heroes. We can argue here, but the truth will defend itself. Money shouldn't be missing. I remember budgets. I'm not gonna attack anybody here. In which money was cut for IPN in order to cut off its activities. We're talking about WiN soldiers, about how their families are enjoying themselves, including the Fr. Goggles. After all these years, Mother discovered a grave in the former Czechoslovakia. The heroes were brought to Nawarowa and buried. They used to drive these heroes like rats into Slovakia to get them out of the woods. The entire troops fired a flower of Polish youth, a flower of Polish defenders from WiN. But I say unambiguously: IPN does not ignore AK soldiers. Spend books on heroes for posterity. I really wish you all the best. May the Lord watch over you. As a Catholic, I will tell you this: God's happiness for discovering the truth. Nobody's afraid of her here because no one was in UB, no one was a snitch, no agent, no snitch. The snitches are screaming now because they're scared. And they're destroying documents so you can't get to the truth. Mr. President, congratulations on your courage. Really. If you tell me that Captain Pilecki's corpse has been found, I will bring the flowers myself to those who will find his corpse. My dream is to have these oppressors... praise the Senate for taking away his salary. Let them live a little for the money that heroes sometimes live for, who fought in the AK. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I'm not gonna stall, but when it comes to these things, I'm really emotional about these things. Long live the IPN. I owe you a word of thanks. These attacks are already there, my dears, too many. There shouldn't be any attacks on the historical truth. As I said, nations that lose their memories lose their lives. There was a president who called not to remember backwards and forwards, because he probably had too much on his conscience and had too much on his conscience of PZPR's and PPR's heirs. And maybe that's why he said that. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you to all the employees of the IPN. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u273	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! I think I'm the last one. I'd like to add my friend's thanks for what you're doing. People who were forgotten, who were, as my previous speakers said, deliberately, deliberately killed twice... Even the memory of them wasn't supposed to exist. I want to thank the IPN for what it has been doing so far about people of solidarity. Today thanks to you there are many publications about these people, there are many documents. It's thanks to you, thanks to what you've been doing and what you've been doing. I'm paying attention here. also for the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. There are a little few of these publications. There's Rzeszów, there's stern agreements, there's Bydgoszcz, there's Lublin, and there's a couple more... Well, the solidarity of individual farmers is slightly less perceived. I had already agreed with the previous president that we would publish one publication, but it didn't work. So I'm going to repeat the same request I made to the previous president, so that many of the intern farmers who... The list is partly completed by us, by the Solidarity. It is worth mentioning those who were able to fight for independent Poland. Often these are the sons of the AK people, BCh, they are their descendants. Therefore, we need to respect them, give them the truth. Often, as has been said, they have been persecuted, and now they can barely make ends meet for these agricultural pensions. Thanks to the fact that we have passed this supplement not so long ago, they're going to be a little better, but they're still unnoticed. There's a lot to be done for them. I hope that such a comprehensive publication about the RI... Because there isn't such a complete one, it's fragmentary. The president and I promised each other we'd do it, but it didn't work. Hence now a request on behalf of the agricultural.Solidarity to try to do so. Thank you, and I wish you further success. I think this institution is the institution that the Platform wanted, and the PiS wanted. And I think it should stay that way. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the President still like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you for your support, especially for the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance, because we work really hard. What Senator Chróścikowski was talking about here... We are already preparing a monograph on the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). The Institute of National Remembrance remembers all those who fought for independent, free Poland. Poland's village played a special role here. This Polish village was able to preserve property and always stood by the Church. And since the Polish village has preserved its property, we have also preserved our freedom. Because how much property, so much independence. And it was thanks to resistance of the Polish peasant that the Church survived. We appreciate that and express our gratitude for it. As I had the honour of honoring farmers, agricultural activists of the Ustrzyki Dolny, I made a declaration that next year, in February, the Institute of National Remembrance will not come there empty-handed, but with an educational file about the resistance of the Polish village in the times of the Polish People's Republic. And these words hurt me very much, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, that we do not remember the soldiers of the Home Army. We remember all: the soldiers of the Home Army, the soldiers of the Battalions of the peasants, the soldiers of the National Armed Forces and those activists of the Polish Socialist Party who dreamed of free and independent Poland. As I emphasized, we're not from one party or another. Neither the left nor the right. Before the war, in the Second Republic, there was also a dispute, and the focus of this dispute was even greater than today. Well, the supporters of Józef Piłsudski argued with the supporters of National Democracy. A difference of opinion and division is natural. ♪ Before us ♪ And I'm glad that's what's been said here. The 100th anniversary of regaining independence and later 3 years of struggle. We owe it to that generation to remember. Because, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 November, we symbolically regained independence, but our ancestors had to build the Polish state for 3 years, rebuild industry, fight diseases, rebuild education and fight for independence at all borders of Poland: with the Czech Republic, in the Silesian Uprisings, in the Wielkopolska Uprising, with the Ukrainians, and then with the Bolsheviks. We saved independence then, and we have to remember that. The Institute of National Remembrance will not celebrate regaining independence with one event, one academy, some celebration. We're already preparing for this right now. We want to follow in the footsteps of our ancestors, because our strength is in our proud past. Mr. Marshal, we are not a perfect nation. You know that in December 1970 the shipbuilders from the coast were shot not by strangers, but by Poles. It was the Poles in 1981 who pacified the workplaces, Gdańsk Shipyard. It was the Poles who fired at the mine, Uncle. You mentioned the names of Professor Dudek and Andrzej Kołodziej here. Ask Andrzej Kołodziej how the Institute of National Remembrance was involved in the thirtieth fifth anniversary of the establishment of the "Solidarity." We're one institution. When we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the Human Rights and Citizens Movement, everyone came because the Institute of National Remembrance is an institution in which there is room for all activists who then fought for free and independent Poland. On the anniversary of ROPCiO was Marian Ball, was Andrzej Czuma and was Bronisław Komorowski. There were all those who were active back then. After all, we present the Crosses of Freedom and Solidarity. Although many are now honored on various sides of the political barricade, then they were all in It is the struggle for free and independent Poland that we honor them for by publishing our books, meeting with students, with teachers. And I think the best part is that we all know the legion song We, the First Brigade, but the legions weren't the only ones. There were other roads to Poland. That's why the Institute of National Remembrance was the first to release the album about General Haller these days to commemorate the Blue Army. This is why we build a monument in Bobrujsk to commemorate Polish corpses in Russia. And don't accuse us of being part of one or another. I'm not interested in the views of the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance. The fundamental point is that we will actually serve the truth and do everything we can to make this memory of our history... Because we don't have complexes, and we remember bad things, too, but we won't let ourselves be humiliated, we won't. Many times Poland has been shown as... and today it is done. That's not gonna happen. I appeal to everyone to weigh their words. These words of one of the state officials were criticized here today. You can't blame the nation, and that's how we look at history, we don't blame one nation or another, we blame people, but we have to clearly show There will be no consent here, no consent to relativism That there are unsubs and there are victims. There's good and evil in history, too. We will show this evil, but we will build, following these good attitudes, these characters will show the young generation, give them monuments and, I hope, name them Polish streets. The Institute of National Remembrance thanks you for the support he has received here. We're gonna do everything we can to keep that trust from failing. We are not a political institution, we are not, but we respect the Polish country, because it is a Polish country... Too many of our ancestors paid a huge price for this Polish country to exist. Our goal, our task is to remember them all and pass them on It's the next generation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u277	I would like to thank the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Shark, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Before I announce an adjournment, the Senator Secretary will read the announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u278	Meeting of the Health Committee on the consideration of... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] A meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of workers engaged in medical professions employed in medicinal entities and to the Act on amending the Anti-drugs Act and the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Foods for Special Nutrition and Medical Devices will take place today immediately after the announcement of a break in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-06-28-senat-44-1.u279	Thank you very much. I'm gonna schedule a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. After the break, the vote will take place. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 13]]
