ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Mr Piotr Olszówka and Mr Sylvester Tulayev to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Adam Andruszkiewicz and Kinga Gajewska-Płochock will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Adam Andruszkiewicz and Sylvester Tulaev. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at 3 p.m. 10, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 10, - Public Finance - immediately after the end of the votes, approx. hour. 3:30. Communication on the meetings of the teams today. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 11.30, - Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families - hour. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Environment Children of War - 10 minutes after the votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Beata Mazurek of Law and Justice on activities promoting physical and physical activity in the framework of the Government Programme for the Social Activity of Older People 2014-2020 and the question is addressed to the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maintaining an active and healthy lifestyle has a significant impact on health and the longer life expectancy of older people. Unfortunately, according to statistics in the area of older people's mobility, issues still need to be improved. The data of the Central Statistical Office on this subject presented in the Information on the situation of older people in Poland for 2015 shows that older people are relatively rarely involved in sports or leisure activities. Only 24.6% people, i.e. almost every fourth person of this age group, have taken part in such participation. However, the fundamental problem lies in habits and stereotypes that make it difficult to participate in older people's motor activities. From the national data that can be read, it appears that more than 50% surveyed seniors declare the need for movement, but only 7% people between the ages of 60 and 64 are engaged in regular motor activity. So the question arises as to how to promote exercise in this age group, how to encourage older people - how to love - to engage systematically in recreational activities. I therefore ask: Is social policy for older people supported by the Council of Ministers in addition to the activities carried out by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, by measures promoting the physical and physical activity of older people, to what extent, what conditions must be met and to whom is the funding addressed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u5	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy by Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In addition to programmes implemented in the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy also implements a government programme for the social activity of older people. The aim of this programme is to improve the quality and quality of life of older people and to develop their potential by enabling them to participate in society. About PLN 40 million is allocated to this programme each year and is addressed to NGOs and other eligible actors who act for the benefit of the elderly. These entities can apply for funding, grants, from 20,000. PLN to 200,000. PLN under four priorities: education of older people, social activity, including social activity promoting intergenerational integration, social participation of older people and social services for these people. This year, 1647 offers were submitted and 362 offers were co-financed. About 130 000 will participate in all programmes under different activities. older people. Turning directly to the question of sport and recreation, I would like to say that within the framework of these 362 offers 105 projects contain elements related to the promotion of physical and physical activity of older people and these projects have been financed for nearly PLN 11.5 million and will participate in them in the country of almost 18 thousand. older people. The largest number of projects will be carried out in the Mazowieckie voivodships - 15 projects for almost PLN 1.9 million, in which almost 3,000 will participate. people, Silesian - 14 projects for more than 1.5 million PLN, in which more than 3 thousand will participate. people, West Pomerania - 11 projects for a total amount of over PLN 1.4 million, which will cover almost 3.5 thousand. Older people, Małopolska - 11 projects for almost PLN 1.2 million, which will cover around 2.5 thousand. older people. What are sports, what are sports activities? This applies to both activities and various sports events such as Nordic walking, aerobics, swimming, hiking, cycling, gymnastics or all kinds of dance activities. Examples of such actions, maybe I won't mention associations, but I'll just say what these events are, the main ones that affect the largest number of people. Shortly before us, on 27 May, the national sports olympiad of third-century universities and senior organizations, which will be organized in Laza for 1 000. Players. That's, among other things. The health cycle is a project carried out in 30 villages of the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship, which will cover 1.8 thousand. Seniors, or the project, do not get diabetes - for people with diabetes, for older people, gymnastics classes will be conducted that improve older people with diabetes to improve their condition or physical fitness, but also enable them to get out of their homes and engage in various activities. About 1 000 are also involved in this project. persons. There are also third-century Games - an Olympics without borders for 800 seniors in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship or Active to health - as part of this project for seniors there will be many activities, here there are permanent activities, among others. music and movement exercises, aerobics, dances or all kinds of mental gymnastics. These are just examples of events or sports activities aimed at the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u7	I would ask you to ask Mrs Beata Mazurek for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question about that. Does this mean that NGOs will no longer be able to apply this year to promote active and healthy lifestyles among older people? Have all the money been distributed yet? If not, then by what date these applications could be submitted. That's one thing. Secondly, in addition to promoting physical and physical activity of older people by supporting non-governmental organisations under the ASOS programme, does the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy carry out other activities to achieve this objective? If so, what is it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u9	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Bojanowska to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The competitions are no longer planned for the current year, because we have distributed all the resources we have, while we are planning this year, at the end of this year, in the last quarter, a competition for NGOs for the next year. In addition to the Government's programme for the social participation of older people, we also have a multi-annual programme "Senior+', a programme by 2020, which is aimed not at non-governmental organisations, but at local self-government units. We build a network of senior+ facilities, these are senior+ daily homes and senior+ clubs. These facilities, in addition to providing services to assist older people in their daily activities, are among other services to be provided, among others. educational, cultural and educational services, but also activities or activities, kinesitherapies and sports and recreation activities, i.e. this element of widely understood sports activity is also in homes and sports clubs. Let me just say that from the latest data we have, I would say: very fresh, calculated yesterday, still pending recruitment, it appears that 181 offers have been received for the creation of new Senior+ institutions this year, 71 offers are for new houses, and 109 for the creation of clubs, 124 offers have contributed to the funding of existing institutions, and in the country we have 126 of these facilities. It should also be mentioned, in addition to what we are doing in the framework of the "Senior+" programme, about the previous information action that took place since 15 December of the previous year, "Safe and active senior." In this six months We have placed particular emphasis on the safety of the elderly, a widely understood sense of security. Here we think of various types of abuse against older people in institutions and in homes, e.g. fraud against the grandson or employees of various institutions that concern the elderly. Next six months, we want to put more emphasis on active ageing. As part of these activities, we signed an agreement with the Social Insurance and Post Office in the framework of promoting the safety of older people. We believe that, for example. Postmen are those who reach the elderly and see them almost every day, so it is important that information about safe facilities should reach them and their families. We also signed an agreement with the Polish Television to create this activity of the elderly, show the values of this activity of the elderly and create a positive image of the elderly in the media, and shape the awareness of all of us concerning the elderly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question was raised by Andrzej Gawron, Richard Bartosik and Jerzy Paul. It concerns funds transferred by the Ministry of Interior and Administration to voluntary fire department units. You will answer Minister Jarosław Zieliński. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Gawron for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Surely we do not need to convince anyone of the important role of voluntary firefighters, for example in the national fire-fighting system. Together with their colleagues from the State Fire Service, they are involved in the suppression of fires, in road events, in other random cases where people need to be helped. Surely this role is also very important in the local community, where actually volunteer firefighters come out to meet this local community, helping people. In the Lublin district I come from, there are 1,700 volunteers who actually help people with full commitment. These are respected people, these are people who actually actively show what can be done for the local community. Unfortunately, in recent years there have been signals that they are being misled, that the measures that are intended for TSOs are reduced. So that I would ask you, Minister, to make it clear from the Seym Court whether the funds will be reduced or increased.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u13	Please, Mr Richard Bartosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u14	Minister! We see an increase in the atmosphere in the headquarters of the volunteer firefighters themselves around the proposed changes in the funding of the union. The allocation of funds to TSOs by the State Fire Department is the best option to take into account and identify needs, clear criteria, clearly defined responsibility for the allocation of funds. I wanted to ask: Will the changes made take all this into account? Please also reply: What amounts did the Ministry specifically allocate to voluntary fire services in 2016 and what is the plan for the current year, 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u15	Thank you. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, We do not need to convince ourselves either in this room or in Poland, how important the role of the Polish fire protection system and the fire protection system is played by voluntary firefighters. Bidding, as most recently does a certain left part, the left side of the room, as it happened yesterday from PSL, who will appreciate volunteer firefighters more, really does not make sense. Poles appreciate them, appreciate Polish society, appreciate the government - I want to say it very clearly - we all appreciate it. This is the second lung of the fire escape system, and the first lung is the State Fire Department. The State Fire Department would not be able to carry out its tasks in this area without a large number of volunteer firefighters, whose number is estimated to be up to 700,000. people in Poland and the number of CSR units - at 16 200. We all appreciate, support. And that's one of the principles that we're going to stick to as part of government action, within the rule of law and justice. All this information, all this false, very false, about how you're taking something from the volunteers, you've got to make a proper assessment. Those who lose their positions defend themselves. In relation to volunteer firefighters, the party that defends itself is PSL. We need to be clear and clear about this. This is not about this dispute between PSL activists and supporting their politicians on the left side of the Sejm room about CSR. It's just their business, their political influence. And that needs to be made clear, clear, or this discussion will have a false perspective. In 2017, the Council The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will allocate more than PLN 124 million to voluntary firefighters. This is - I'm going to talk about numbers now, because numbers should convince, and all these propaganda measures cannot be convincing - that means an increase in the amount of subsidies from the state budget by more than PLN 15 million only in one year. This increase means an increase of 13%. That's really significant. In 2015, when the coalition PO-PSL - PSL was in charge, there with this section, which I stress - these measures were less, there was clearly less. Appreciating the role played by voluntary firefighters in the civil protection system, and with a view to increasing the efficiency of the rational distribution of public funds for fire protection, the Ministry of Interior and Administration has set out new rules for granting grants to voluntary firefighters since 2016. These new solutions have brought many benefits already in the first year of their application and are highly valued and have been well assessed by firefighters themselves, as evidenced by the numerous thanks we receive. Individuals who have sometimes waited many years for funding have finally received this funding thanks to this new system. The old system didn't guarantee that. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration recognises the needs of all voluntary firefighters in the field of fire protection and preparedness for rescue operations. Therefore, these actions, which have been undertaken, are aimed at financial support and day-to-day operation, but in the whole spectrum of them, in all their dimensions, in all their scope, of these numerous units, and to equip them with rescue equipment and personal protective equipment. It is absurd and untrue that TSOs will either not receive funding or receive less funding. On the contrary, as I said just now, from year to year, voluntary fire workers receive more and more money from the state budget. The grant for CSR units in 2015 amounted to PLN 32.5 million. In 2016 it was already 36 million PLN - now I am talking about units outside the national rescue system - which results in an increase of 3.5 million PLN. On the other hand, the amount of grants to TSOs in 2017 is already PLN 43 million, i.e. by PLN 7 million more than in the previous year. So from year to year under our rule, and so far we have had an impact on decisions for 2 years, these amounts are just increasing and not decreasing. Substantial funding has also been provided to those TSOs which are part of the national fire-fighting system. On the basis of the article. 33 of the Fire Protection Act, the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Service shall distribute the funds between voluntary fire department units operating within the national emergency and fire-fighting system, subject to the use of these resources only to ensure combat preparedness. In 2015 and 2016, the MSWiA transferred PLN 73 million to the entities included in the CRSG, while in 2017 this amount increased by more than 8 million, to the level of 81 110 thousand. zł. So in this part of the spending on voluntary guards, too, we have a significant increase. Fire-fighting vehicles for voluntary fire-fighting services are also purchased from the budget. There's always a question about cars. In 2016, 171 fire-fighting vehicles were purchased. More than 2/3 of these vehicles were medium and heavy rescue and fire-fighting vehicles. We move away from buying a large number of light cars, due to their weaker technical and tactical parameters, which are not widely used in rescue operations. Granting the purchase of medium-sized fire-fighting vehicles is much more practical and cost-effective per balance from the point of view of rescue operations and their effectiveness. In 2016, new equipment was purchased for volunteer firefighters, including among others.: several thousand fire hoses of different types, 157 generators, 175 pumps for contaminated water, almost 100 saws for concrete, more than 370 fire ladders, 160 medical rescue kits and 35 hydraulic tools. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2016, the CSR units received PLN 109 million. In 2017, the amount of these funds, as I said, increased by PLN 15 million to over PLN 124 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u17	Minister, thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Now, Marshal. You'll have three minutes after the next question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I know. Just one sentence, if you don't mind, now. I would like to stress - because there may be additional questions - that 2 million PLN was also planned for the Association of Volunteer Firefighters of the Republic of Poland for the funding of youth camps of fire teams and tournaments of fire knowledge. Good. Thank you very much. Mr. George Paul, extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! High Izbo! In the beginning, as a former long-term self-government officer, I would like to thank all the wards, mayors and councillors for seeing for years the needs of voluntary firefighters and supporting them financially, which greatly improved the safety of the wards involved in rescue operations. At the same time, local authorities realized that the early distribution of funds from the previous Chief of State Fire Service among voluntary firefighters was not ideal, since support was most often made to the presidents and units of TSOs politically well-deserved for the governing parties in 2007. That is why I have a question: What measures will go to voluntary firefighters from the implementation of the modernization program for uniformed services? Firstly, will they actually go to individuals involved and often involved in rescue operations, and secondly, will they really need financial support, e.g. for the replacement of used rescue equipment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u19	Thank you. Please, Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There is not enough time to say everything that is being done to support the voluntary fire and fire-fighting units and the entire emergency and fire-fighting system, but in relation to this question I would like to say that according to the Law and Justice announcements, according to the programme of our group, currently being a programme of the Government of Law and Justice, consistently implemented, voluntary fire-fighting guards have also been included in the new programme of modernization of uniformed services, i.e. the Police, the State Fire Department, the Border Guard and the Government Protection Office. That was the announcement, and that's what happens. For 4 years, 2017/12020, because at that time the programme will be - already started - implemented, a significant amount will be allocated to the TSO, i.e. over 501 million PLN, as part of the programme of modernization of uniformed services, which I mentioned, adopted by Parliament and prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government. Out of this 3,35,800 thousand, as expected, will reach the CSR units included in the national emergency and fire escape systems and 165,600 thousand. it will reach the TSO units that are not included in this system. Together, as I said, it is over 501 million PLN. There'll be equipment purchased, equipment purchased. As far as combat vehicles are concerned, as volunteer friends, rescue and fire-fighting cars call it, we predict that with efficient, rational and very cost-effective operations, because that is what they must be, we will purchase about 500 fire-fighting vehicles for volunteer fire-fighting units. That's the second one that goes to the National Fire Department. It's a big program, it's a big undertaking, but it's gonna significantly strengthen our fire escape system. I'm sure the volunteers will benefit greatly. Cars are also transferred, still very efficient, withdrawn from the National Fire Service units. They are directed to those CSR units that most need this equipment. This process is also worth noting, because it also gives the strengthening of the CSR units. The last thing I'll be able to say briefly is what's at stake in this dispute about the amendment of the Fire Protection Act. There will be a change: if the project is voted out today and I assume that it will be voted out by our majority in the Sejm, the rules on distribution of funds from write-downs from insurance companies will change. They will be distributed by the same authorising officer as in the case of budget appropriations in order to create a coherent rescue and fire extinguisher system in order to best respond to the real needs of the volunteer fire department. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This authority will be the chief of the State Fire Department, not, so far, the association, the board of directors... Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka: Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...associations or the General Board of the Association of Voluntary Guards of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u21	Thank you. The next question that Mr Stefan Romecki and Mr Khrushch from the Kukiz club prepared is the construction of roads S6 and S11. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. I ask Mr Stefan Romecki to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! As a Member of the Koszalin Land, I have questions. The inhabitants, local authorities and media of the Central Pomeranian region are alerted to adverse corrections made in the S6 and S11 road construction plans. According to still unconfirmed information, the task of building roads S6 in the section of Sianów - Tricity and S11 in the section Koszalin - Bobolice have been included in the reserve list, which means eternal never, as the programme of large EU investments for the construction of roads in Poland ends in 2023. This is the news for the Central Pomeranian region, which takes first place in Poland on the list of the most excluded communications regions in the country. This means further and more permanent marginalization of the region, more victims on terribly crowded during the holiday period, narrow and devoid of the roads of the Central Pomerania, as well as not very serious treatment by the authors of their own plan of modernization of Poland, which is described in the government's document "Strategy for Responsible Development" (SOR). Politically, this means that the PiS fails to keep electoral declarations and deep economic regression in the region compared to the situation under the PO's governments. In the geopolitical dimension, this means a regression compared to the Polish People's Republic and its concern for the North and Western lands. Let me remind you that so-called. The German territories attached after the war by the decision of the powers to Poland today represent 1/3 of the territory of the present Poland, of which the present government seems to forget. I would therefore like to ask what the final update of the S6 and S11 road construction plan looks like, especially in the West Pomeranian and Pomeranian sections. And second question: Which of the planned elements of the construction of the West Pomeranian and Pomeranian sections of the roads S6 and S11 can already be considered permanent and certain realizations for the coming years 2017.2023? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u23	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The S6 expressway between Szczecin and the Tri-City agglomeration is in progress. I therefore think that the information or opinions that you have provided are not true. Firstly, I should say here that this route between Szczecin and the Tricity should be divided generally into two sections, maybe into two parts, because the sections are shorter. One thing at a time, I'll tell you what's going on. At the end of 2015 contracts were signed with contractors for seven sections carried out in the S6 between Szczecin and Koszaline with a total length of more than 140 km and a value of nearly PLN 3.5 billion. The tasks are planned to be implemented in the design and build system. Over the past months, contractors have focused on obtaining a decision authorising road investments. Currently, all sections have such a decision. In March work started in the field, it is five out of seven episodes, and that is a real fact. I would like to make it clear that there is no question of a situation in which there has been any slowdown or uncertainty. There's just work going on. The bulldozers have entered the field and the investments that have been signed are carried out within the framework of the National Road Construction Programme. The first episode, the Koszalin and Sianów ring road, will be given in 2018, so next year is the due date. I hope it will be kept. On the other hand, for the remaining sections, the deadline for handing them over to users is the first half of 2019. While remaining at Koszalin and the section of the S11 road in turn, the Member was gracious to mention the section between Koszalin and Bobolici. Let me remind you that it was our decision that this section was aimed at implementation. The work is going on. I don't think there should be any problem here, either, that this episode should be on a revised program. I hope, at least this is the intention of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, that this route to the Central Pomerania will be as expensive as possible so that the movement that is there can be moved, especially during the summer, as the Member said, because outside the summer period the movement on this artery is generally below the average. Going further east, the average traffic level, e.g. in the section Słupsk - Lębork, according to studies that were carried out last year, and so very current, is between 5.8 and 7.5 thousand. vehicles per day, with a national average of almost 12 000. vehicles per day, so this is much lower than the national average. Besides, I think it's worth talking about it, because sometimes, listening to speeches about this part between Koszaline and Tricity, you can get the impression that there's just no way that there's a field path out there, but there's a road that has relatively good parameters. This is a road that is in good technical condition for today. There's the Slupsk ring road, so it's the biggest city between Koszalin and the Tricity. Therefore, it cannot be said that this road S6 constitutes a communication exclusion of the Central Pomerania. We can talk about the exclusion of communication, but because of a very weak network of voivodship roads, district roads and their poor condition. This is primarily the main problem, not the S6 road, which is the main communication artery. However, just a few more words about this second part of the S6 between Koszalin and the Tricity ring road. The total cost of the planned works is PLN 7700 million, so it is huge money. Today I cannot say that these sections will be implemented within the limits that we have today. Let me remind you that the limit we have today is PLN 109 billion. This is the limit that was left to us by the previous government. If there are opportunities to increase the limit, then of course we will also analyse further construction, modernisation of this road from Koszalin, or actually from Sianów, towards the Tri-City agglomeration. On the other hand, with regard to the continuation of the S6, the part that was to be the metropolitan ring road, the second ring road of the Tri-City agglomeration, [[♪ The bell ♪]] this environmental decision has been addressed to the court, it has been repealed by the provincial administrative court, the case is in liquidation and therefore there is no legal possibility to start this investment. Therefore, if you can give me half a minute to justify...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u25	No, Minister. You'll have three minutes after the next questions, okay? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Good. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask an additional question by Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a map of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways on the programme of national roads, state of implementation and planned investments, and this section of the S11 to Bobolic and Szczecinka is listed here as an investment during the procedure. or is not even included in tender procedures. Now you said he'd be in the plan and he'd be included. Is it possible to determine when the procedure will take place? Because it's important. And if not, maybe at least in the case of the Bobolic ring road there's such a bypass that... For example, on S10 it is necessary because we do Walcz, but there is also Mirosławiec, and Kalisz Pomorskie, and Recz. It's gonna take a lot of pressure off these routes. Please note that we now have a planned container port in Świnoujście, where further extension of roads may still be necessary to reach the port, i.e. through the willful park. So this is where we're gonna be waiting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the following costs. But a specific question about S11 to Bobolic and to Szczecin: When will this episode be included in tender procedures?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u27	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The episode between Koszalin and Bobolici was entered or was already directed to implement the decision of our government and it was a conscious decision. Preparatory work is underway. As soon as they are so advanced that we can continue to take further steps, which is to direct to the tender, we have a deep determination today to do so. This section was not intended to be implemented in the programme today, so we must wait for the programme to be adopted in the end, right? The programme accepts the entire government, so it will continue. We are at the final stage of preparing this document. And the question is: Why is it taking so long? I think this room answers that, right? Because there are so many needs for road construction that we have to balance that, on the one hand, by looking at the level of preparation of individual investments, because it is difficult to steer and block the measures that are planned today, for investments that are very necessary, but the degree of preparation is very small and realistic, for example. in 2021, 2022 or 2023 This would mean that, for four to five years, money that could already be used to build other, including important roads, would be frozen. That's where it's from, among other things. Problem with Route 11. The state of preparation is very low there. Therefore, in the first place we directed the Koszalin - Bobolice section to prepare, because there were also numerous voices, which also sounded in this room, that this is the most requiring improvement and modernisation of the section. We answered that when we made those decisions. As for the further sections of the S11 road, which totals 425 km, work is currently being carried out on four bypasses of the cities, but that's more to the south. Undoubtedly, however, when we prepare the next sections, we plan to transfer a large part of the roads that are not in the limit today to preparatory work with the adoption of the programme, but to focus them on preparatory work or to increase this preparatory work. One of the ways in which it is intended to take or accelerate preparatory work is among others. In fact, all of today's unrealized episode of the S11 road. That is the deep will and we are convinced that this [[♪ The bell ♪]] The plan will be realized. Thank you very much. [[Thank you kindly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u29	Thank you, Minister. The next question was prepared by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Zbigniew Gryglas and Marek Owl from Modern. It concerns HR policy in companies of the Treasury on the example of PZU SA. The question is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Development and Finance. I ask Mr Zbigniew Gryglas to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Law and Justice makes profound changes in staff in the administration, army and companies of the Treasury. After changes in the civil service, as many as 30% of those with higher posts in the administration lost their position. Even worse is the situation in the Polish army. One-third of the generals and one-six of all the colonels have left the service. Many of them had experience in foreign missions. The same situation is in the agendas and companies of the Treasury. The criterion of change is not, in most cases, professionalism, education, professional experience. They decide party cards and connections. The head of the Political Cabinet of MON Bartłomiej Misiewicz became a clear symbol of this widespread political nepotism. Yesterday, an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the social situation in the strategic Lotos Railway company took place at the request of the Modern. The Management Board of this company was appointed a person without any experience in the railway sector, specialist in sports law and distance education. Ladies and gentlemen, the last few days have brought changes to the next big group of State Treasury - PZU. And that's what my questions are about. What were the reasons for the cancellation of President Michał Krupinski? On what terms and conditions was President Krupinski employed? Was it a calling, a job contract or a management contract? Is it true that the former President is currently on sick leave, which prevents the Supervisory Board from resolving effectively the agreements linking him to the company? What costs will the company bear as a result of leaving and these changes in the composition of the Management Board? I mean, first of all, in detail, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the amount of the check-in and whether it is linked to a non-compete agreement. What are the costs for the company? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u31	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the question that you are asking, first of all to its first part, I think that the 30% reduction in public administration, which you have pointed out in the first place, is rather a merit rather than a reprimand, because this administration has been repeatedly, overdeveloped over the last dozen years, so that it is rather a merit than a defect. So, given the demands of modern administration, I don't understand the first part of the question. But with regard to HR policy in relation to companies of the State Treasury, I would like to remind you that one of the objectives of the liquidation of the Ministry of Treasury was to improve the quality of management of state property, including ownership supervision of companies in the public domain, by changing this model. The expression of those expectations... They were formulated explicite in the law on the management of state property in force from 1 January, which includes. contains instruments that significantly strengthen ownership supervision, primarily increasing the standards of this supervision both in the area of selection of staff and creating expectations for representatives of the Treasury sitting e.g. on supervisory boards. I would like to remind you that the members of the supervisory boards of companies with the participation of the State Treasury shall only be made up of persons meeting the criteria set out in Article. 19 of this law, i.e. having powers to sit on supervisory boards confirmed by a State examination and in companies of economic importance - additional criteria indicated in Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 laws and additionally with a positive opinion of the Company Council, which was placed in the structure of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. In the composition of this board are also competent, relevant experts, who further confirm the qualifications of persons recommended for supervisory boards. When issuing those opinions to the members of supervisory boards, the Board shall assess whether the candidate has the relevant knowledge, skills and experience required to act as a member of the supervisory authority. With regard to the companies for which the Minister for Development and Finance has been delegated the power to exercise rights from shares and shares, I would like to inform you that the supervision of these companies is shaped in such a way as to ensure that the Minister has the substantive and current supervision and knowledge of what is happening in the companies concerned. Our aim is to ensure first and foremost professional and reliable performance of supervisory activities in accordance with the interest of the State Treasury. With regard to the selection of supervisory authorities, it is the company board, mentioned above, that is the body competent to shape the personal composition of these boards, and on the other hand, the supervisory boards are in favour of shaping the personal composition of the board, because it is up to the board, as you know it, that it is up to the board, to keep up to date control and evaluation of the work of the board. In addition, I would like to mention that the Law on Property Management allows the possibility of asking the Company Board to give its opinion on candidates for members of management bodies. As far as the question concerning PZU SA is concerned, I think that the staff they manage meet all the criteria that I mentioned when it comes to reliability and competence. The current Chairman of the Management Board, Mr Paweł Surówka, is a graduate of Sorbony and Ludwig Maximilian Universität, has been a long-standing employee, financial advisor at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, has been supervising the activity of this bank in Central Europe, has also started branches of PKO BP Bank in 2015 in Germany, so that it has the highest competence, has the competence to manage this company as best as possible, the company, add, on what we have also answered the questions before the Supreme Chamber, which this year is facing a serious restructuring process. This is a huge challenge, and this board will certainly be able to meet its tasks. In addition, I will add only one important thing, in terms of supervision of PZU, according to the Act mentioned here, the President of the Council of Ministers is the coordinator of the whole process of exercising rights from shares and it is the President of the Council of Ministers, at the moment Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who supervises this, exercises personal supervision over the company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u33	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to address a few of the points that the Minister spoke about here. As if I weren't questioning this systemic division of supervision, which the Minister mentioned, the problem is that it's probably not being applied. The Minister did not address in any way Mr Gryglas' question concerning the cancellation of Mr Michał Krupinski. He's got an even better résumé than Mr. Survivka, and we haven't heard the reasons for his cancellation so far. As I remember the whole discussion last year, Prime Minister Morawiecki paid very much attention to having a tool that will enable him to conduct politics effectively, implement Morawiecki's plan, the economic policy of the government. Undoubtedly, PZU was one of those companies that was supposed to pursue this policy. Today it turns out that he stayed [[♪ The bell ♪]] without any influence on this company, the Ziobra faction won, and surrounded by PZU SA it is said that won Witold Ziobro, an employee of this company. What role does Mr Witold Ziobro play in PZU SA?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Jadwiga Emilevich.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u36	Mr Ziobro, we are not dealing with the HR structure within companies, so I do not know what role Mr Witold Ziobro plays in this company. I'm gonna say I don't understand the question either, and we don't do that either. And I don't think they've been discussed by some sort of fracking or non-fractional war around key companies. I would remind you that the supervisory board's domain is an exchange of management. The supervisory board shall not be required to indicate the reasons for changes in management. So that there's no discussion here about whether one or another faction wins. This is an important company. Once again, it's a public company operating in a free market. As regards the method and supervision, I stress this, and I also maintain this information concerning the key role of this company in implementing the Plan for Responsible Development. I would also like to remind you that PZU carried out a very large, important transaction for this plan in conditions in which Prime Minister Morawiecki did not perform personal supervision of this company and nevertheless took an active part in it. Here I will remind you that the Polish Development Fund was also involved in this transaction. So we are the government that burys the silos and doesn't dig them up, and it really doesn't matter if personal supervision is exercised by one minister or another, or by the Prime Minister. Let me remind you that the government is ultimately headed by the Prime Minister and that here we have full cooperation and full cooperation and understanding of the principles of activity. Therefore, as I said, one competent person was replaced by another equally, if not more competent. We are not here to weigh a dispute, who is more competent. Mr Michał Krupiński carried out significant transactions last year and completed his mission. In this role it was also a exhausting term for him due, as I said, to the transactions he carried out. The person who will replace him is also a person with very high competences and skills working in this company for the last year, so he will certainly be able to carry out those tasks, which are recorded in the Responsible Development Strategy. As I said, large, huge restructuring processes await PZU this year. These are different processes than Pekao SA's buyout that took place last year. Thus, new processes and new managers of the company. The transition is undisputed, given that the person who is currently the President is the person inside the company, the person who knows it, and therefore the transfer of the chopstick is [[♪ The bell ♪]] liquid. Moreover, the financial results of the PZU show clearly that nothing serious, important happened in this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 31 hours 10 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 17 of the agenda. We'll proceed with question number five. Question 5 is prepared by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Polish People's Party. It concerns the payment of compensation for hunting damages and is addressed to the Minister for the Environment. I ask you to ask Mr Kasprzak for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Hunting damage is a huge problem of Polish agriculture. There is no region of Poland where game hunting would not do such damage. I see farmers very often, and I know what a huge problem this is. Damages are valued very low. The measures which farmers receive do not cover the damage suffered. This is of great importance especially in small farms, such as in Podkarpacie, in me. The Act, which was adopted on 22 June 2016, was a good solution which changed the overall system of injury estimation. This law still doesn't apply, it's been suspended. The question is why the government doesn't deliver on the promises of the PiS. I would like to say that, when going to the elections, the PiS, as a flagship commitment, had a change in its system of valuation and elimination of hunting damages. Is there no money left in the budget? I think not, and even if this money was previously lacking and there were concerns, additional resources have now emerged and the damage could be eliminated in line with the new proposals. My questions: When does the government intend to launch these new rules for the resolution of damages? Is that gonna be another promise before the election? It's probably gonna go so far that before the next election, we're gonna hear that the government has a great idea, but [[♪ The bell ♪]] farmers will continue to suffer the consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u39	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Andrzej Nebile.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your interest in the topic of hunting damages and compensations that they have. I would like to say that the date of entry into force of the Law of 22 June on the amendment of the Law of Hunting - it was to enter into force on 1 January 2017 - was postponed in connection with the Law of 2 December 2016 on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Law of Budget. At the same time, the government side - and I would like to remind you that it was a parliamentary project - during the legislative process of the governmental draft amending the Law on Hunting Law, it is necessary due to the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, I would remind you, from 2014, that it proposed in this draft contained in Parliament's printing No 1042, that damage should be estimated and paid compensation to the State Forest Farm of State Forests. The State Forests would therefore receive a flat-rate reimbursement of the compensation costs incurred by, of course, the tenants and managers of the hunting circuit. This project, print No 1042, as I said, after first reading in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland is currently being conducted in an extraordinary sub-committee of the Sejm. It is therefore up to Members to continue working on this project. On the other hand, the Minister of the Environment, given the need to develop solutions for assessing the damage that would actually harm the environment of farmers, foresters and hunters, and on the other hand would be feasible in practice, has set up a team to develop solutions for compensation for hunting damages in a comprehensive way. This team includes employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of the Environment, State Forest Forests, including employees of the Legal Department and the Forestry Department of the Ministry of the Environment. The results of this team's work will be known by the end of April. Therefore, by the end of 2017, or until new solutions are developed and their entry into force, an estimate of the damage caused by game hunting in agricultural crops and foetuses and the damage done during hunting shall be carried out on the basis of existing rules. The tenant and the manager of the hunting circuit shall be responsible for the assessment of the damage and payment of compensation. Currently, the rules for estimating the damage caused by game hunting in crops and livestock are laid down in the Regulation of the Minister of the Environment of 8 March 2010 on the way in which the damage is assessed and on the payment of compensation for damage to crops and livestock. Pursuant to that Regulation, the Minister for the Environment of the Hunting Circuit and the tenant shall be obliged to pay compensation within 30 days of the date of drawing up the minutes of the final assessment of the damage, irrespective of their own financial condition. Any overrun of this deadline should be notified to the competent district board of the Polish Hunting Union, which also supervises the activities of hunting circles in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u41	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u42	Thank you very much, Minister, for reminding me of the past and, I'll say, the ridiculous rules for assessing the damage. Farmers know this best and have an opinion on it. At the same time, the Minister confirmed my thesis by saying that either since 2018 or until new rules were developed. So, we can expect a date we don't have a specific date. This is reprehensible because farmers were hoping that this problem would be solved. Slopes were poured out on the predecessors that they could not solve this problem, Minister Zieliński here said: as announced, etc., we are implementing our policy and our electoral programme. It was on the election program. What's that? Isn't there a coherence between the PiS and the government here? I'm asking, are these two different? [[♪ The bell ♪]] institutions? Or should someone else work here? It was a key point in the PiS election program and the farmers were deceived, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u43	You're welcome, Minister Andrzej Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u44	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree with you, firstly because you had a judgment of the Court to execute in 2014, and secondly, in the last 8 years, it can be said boldly, and this is what empirical data is for, these are not some situations sucked out of your finger, you have led to the outbreak of the wild population, which is the main cause of the damage in the fields, and now you are making such allegations to us. See, when the population was kept at the right level, the damage was bearable, it wasn't like that at the time. These are the years 2005-2007. See in the charts - I present the official data of the Central Statistical Office. There's been an increase in wild boar population, numbers were not checked, and now we have a problem with damage. This project I've been talking about will be so prepared that it will agree on all sides. The damages will be paid quickly, efficiently, in a timely manner. Therefore, three departments are involved in this project, as well as subordinate and supervised entities, in order to finally lead to a co-ordination situation in this area. This includes agricultural chambers, trade unions. Finally, we want to bring about a solution that will satisfy and reconcile all sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u45	The question - there is still time - Minister: When... But we didn't promise, and you promised. So? Two years go by, two years, Minister, and nothing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u46	The primary cause is to lead to an excessive population of individual species of game in the country. Therefore, it is simple to translate into damage. I said there'd be solutions by the end of April. Print No. 1042 is in the subcommittee and now there is movement on the side of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u47	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question, Question No 6, prepared by Members Jarosław Gonciusz, Dariusz Starzycki and Waldemar Andzel from Law and Justice. It concerns the qualification of the Polish Sign Fighting as a Hitler's sign. The question is addressed to the Minister of Digitization. I would ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Goncier for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! After entering into Google's search and entering the tab: Graphics, such as Hitler's symbol, Hitler's sign or changing these passwords by a plural number, we can notice that among the search results outside the swastikas is also displayed the symbol of Poland Fighting. In recent years, the media have also written about this existing problem. Google seems to have the right tools to solve this problem once and for all. The sign of Poland Fighting has been under special legal protection since 2014. The problem described is also so important that this sign also has historical significance, which everyone who is unaware of the history of our country from abroad may be looking at. This is evidence of the wrong interpretation of our history by these people. This is very disturbing. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Are efforts being made to resolve this problem through their intervention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u49	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitisation of Mr Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Before I answer that question, I will try to explain the problem. Combining Hitler symbols with the Sign of Poland Fighting in search engines - you have to say clearly: in search engines, not only in one search engine, because this is not only about Google, but also about Bing or DuckDuckGo - it is a matter of algorithms. The graphic search shows the password very diverse results associated with the password in many different ways, especially taking into account metadata, the description of the image itself and the correlation between the occurrence of the image on indexed pages and the occurrence of the phrase searched on these pages. If there are various symbols on the page, e.g. On the historical site, as part of a single article on World War II, both Hitler's characters and the Sign of Fighting Poland appear, this search engine shows, it can show various characters associated with the content of the article in response to the passwords that are related to the topic of this article. What is worth pointing out is that the algorithm does not understand or recognize the context and interrelationship of passwords and presented results, especially images. It simply reflects a simple correlation: there is an article, in this article there are two different passwords or two different pictures placed side by side, and consequently there is a correlation. That's how the algorithm... There's a search mechanism. There is an example from the Polish Rzeczpospolita of March, which dealt with this subject. She served e.g. that one of the search results of the Sign of Poland Fighting leads to a website telling the story of the Scout Grey Private, who in 1944 picked the Nazi flags and painted the Mark of Poland Fighting. The words "Hitler" and "signs" appear side by side here, which may be confusing and probably misleading - in quotes: mistaken - a search engine. From an algorithm's point of view, there's no mistake here, but it's just a correlation to this algorithm that was created. Moreover, in this case, interest in the case acts as a mechanism to strengthen the original search engine indication. As we look at the search engine today, what we find in other search engines are screenshots from Google search screens. So once again, when we ask this question, we spin this phenomenon. In this way, there is a link to articles describing the case. Thanks to links they are indexed above in search results. So the more interested we are, the more this phenomenon appears, but - what is important - it appears in Poland, because if we enter e.g. in the same search engines. in English or in other languages respectively, this correlation is no longer present, there is no sign of Poland Fighting. So the answer to that... In a sense, it is a risk which Mr said would confuse those who are looking for, who do not know the context - of course it applies to people from outside Poland who do not speak Polish - in this case it has not yet occurred, but when we start asking and we start to bind it, unfortunately there is such a risk. Now, the question is, what can we do if there's anything we can do about it? From the technological side at this stage little, because if we take into account the number of images that go online and then to search engine indexes, this type of unexpected, undesirable results are unavoidable. No matter what blockers we put in here, sooner or later such a mistake can happen. A certain opportunity is the development of technology, so to come to such an nuance, what is a sign and why you should not combine them with each other... This nuance will be possible when the machine recognizes the context, so machine learning, i.e. machine learning, artificial intelligence, this is what gives the opportunity to do contextual searches. As far as the formal website is concerned, we need to remember that search engine owners are usually American companies and registered there, and that is a serious problem as to how to approach it. Even if we had tools to intervene in the way they conduct their business, we need to weigh whether too frequent interference in the results of algorithms would be a threat to the neutrality of the search. Apart from such very obvious cases as child pornography, any interference, giving freedom, accepting de facto censorship, in a sense, could lead to the fact that what is happening today in an unintended manner would be intentional. This is the risk we need to bear in mind if we can take any action at all. Now, as the honourable Member has rightly mentioned, the Sign of Poland Fighting is protected by the Law of 10 June 2014 and this is possibly the formal ground on which we could intervene, but, first, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is in charge of this matter, and secondly, we would have to prove that searching for or such a search effect is indeed in breach of the provisions of that Law is an insult to this mark, which would be undoubtedly difficult, but we will pass on the question of the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u51	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Starzycki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am very pleased with the announcements of cooperation with the Ministry of Culture on this subject. This topic is very important, mainly for the elderly, for the veterans. I often attend festivals, e.g. the underground state and I see how respectful this sign is and how important it is to these people. Besides, not only for them, for many Poles. Therefore, this mark has been protected by law and I think that the Polish State should show its consequence when it comes to the protection of this mark. Since the relevant law has been adopted in this respect, I think that this consequence, if presented, will cause the authorities, for example. Google or others on this topic They'll take care of it too. I think they have an opportunity to do so because, according to some media, the authorities of Google do not hide that a multi-thousand army of collaborators is helping them to browse the search results. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and just appeared for them a new manual, in which they are, among others. Allergic to reacting to content that negates the Holocaust or insults Muslims. Therefore, I see no reason that in the guidelines that this company gives its colleagues, there is also no information about how to react to the situation that is taking place here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u53	Thank you. Please, Minister Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u54	Mr. Speaker! Firstly, once again, this is not just about Google, so that we do not have the impression that it only applies to Google, it applies to all the most important search engines. They simply use similar mechanisms, so even if we solve the problem in Google, which is of course the most important, because it is the most common search engine, it will be the same problem in Bingu. If we had the ability to influence, interfere, we would have to intervene in all subjects. What we can do for sure is to allegiate. This is exactly what we do in the case of the Polish concentration camps when we try to publicise it every time. And that's joint action. Here, as I said, we have such a dilemma, aside from the question of whether we can, or can not, we have to answer the question of whether there are different symbols appearing next to each other in the search engine, as we will look at when we throw in the search engine in the English language of the symbol (s), that is where, apart from Hitler's symbols, the trademarks of one very famous company... The question is what to do with it. We can't avoid it. In this particular case, we have quite a shocking story. Surely, as I said, we will cooperate with the Minister of Culture in this matter to try to find a solution, but once again I stress, it is not easy to solve this problem, because it is simply because of how search engines work. Even if we went to the owners of these search engines to reset the probability models for this sign, every time the next question will cause it to come back. I would like to declare that we will be looking for a solution with the Minister of Culture, if it is possible at all, and eventually we will be in conversations and contacts with the owners of search engines, with their representatives in Poland, paying attention to this problem, but it seems that as long as the technology used in these search engines does not already have such a character based on artificial intelligence, i.e. it will allow the contextual differentiation of these characters, this problem may unfortunately repeat itself to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u55	Thank you, Minister. We move on to Question 7, tabled by Edward Siarka, Dariusz Bąk and Jan Duda from Law and Justice. The question concerns the current problems of beekeeping and the policy of supporting this important sphere of Polish agriculture and is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. I would ask you to ask Edward Siarka for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Beekeeping is one of those agricultural production sectors which translates into production results and yields of a number of agricultural departments. I think we're all aware of that. At the same time, beekeeping is highly dependent on natural factors that beekeepers have no influence on, and these are factors such as climate, weather or the presence of various types of parasites that accompany beemaking. As beekeepers we can only help bees whose families in Poland, according to the Polish Bee Association, we have about 940,000. Polish beekeeping also has a unique structure, because more than 60% the grass count no more than 20 bee families. Only 2.6% the grass is a large farm with more than 80 hives. For years, without regard to these figures, state policy has been focused on supporting the bee products market and has generally preferred large farms. Therefore, my question is: Is the Ministry of Agriculture considering taking measures to replace the existing support policy by introducing direct payments to the bee family, like farm subsidies? Because such subsidies in Polish agriculture are. Such a solution would have a few additional advantages, namely simplifying the procedure of the payments themselves. All beekeepers would benefit from the payment. Today, only those with more than 10 families can benefit from these subsidies. During the benefit-free period, the holding would not be threatened by the need to reduce winter families. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such a solution would motivate the registration of all stripes - today small beekeepers often do not register. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u57	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question of your fellow Members... First of all, I would like to thank you for the task of this question, because it is necessary to constantly make clear to those who have a little less to do with agriculture and nature, and were once bitten by bees and have at least an indifferent attitude towards them, that bees are probably the most useful insects, and therefore... [[Voice from the hall: They don't bite.]] [[Bees don't bite!]] [[Hegel bites, the bee doesn't bite.]] I apologize for the simplification. ...and therefore they are not always appreciated. Indeed, support for bee families, beekeepers, has continued in state policy for years. This support amounts to PLN 24 million per year. This support is aimed at training, the purchase of medicinal products, the use-based purchase of bee mothers and packages and bee deposits with such mothers. This support also applies to the reimbursement of the purchase of bee equipment, tow trucks for the transport of hives, lifts, belt scales, lifting and unloading equipment for hives, loaders and mini-chargers, and trolleys for the loading of hives. Beekeepers with properly large apiaries can benefit from such support. I would like to correct here that the support in the form of these first three mechanisms, namely training, the purchase of medicinal products and the purchase of bee mothers, applies to each apiary, there is no quantitative limitation here. Only equipment can be bought if production is carried out on the right scale, i.e. at the level of the 10 families mentioned by the Member. Beekeepers are positive about the current support, and so far the Ministry has not been affected by requests to replace this mechanism and thus withdraw existing support targeted at specific actions for such support as payments, i.e. support for a hive, one apiary, one honey producer. If we split this sum into all the branches, we'd have 16 zlotys per swarm. I don't think it's the support that would satisfy beekeepers and save those who have problems, even financial ones, due to various reasons. So we haven't worked on this kind of solution so far. So it has to be admitted that in this area the actions of subsequent governments have been positive, because in Poland the number of beesweeds has increased. In 2009 there were 1123 thousand, while in 2016, it was already 1504 thousand, and from year to year it grew. Of course, beekeeping suffers from various problems, and we are aware that the use of chemistry in agriculture is a major obstacle to beekeeping - even if the known problem of neonicotinoids used in the cultivation of rape. There are many problems, but it seems that, in addition to minor corrections, maybe amendments, the way of support so far does not require radical changes, because the results achieved - the fact that we have become the third producer of honey in Europe, being a northern country, and thus less predisposed to easy bee farming - show that this support element, this way of supporting beekeeping, seems to be appropriate. Of course, we will be considering this proposal. If it is already raining, it must be considered, looked at, but first of all consult widely with the beekeeper's environment. So far, according to the information I have, not only was there not such a conclusion from the bee organisations, but there was also a conclusion that such solutions should not be introduced, however, in order to maintain the existing form of support in this regard. So it seems that the solutions so far are appropriate and have the expected results. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Edward Sulphur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u60	Minister! Maybe I'll be more specific. Namely, what I said about the change in the method of financing beekeeping, these are proposals which emerged from the Małopolska beekeeper's union, the voivodeship branch in Krakow. On the basis of the conclusions of my fellow beekeepers, I asked this question. However, I would like to ask an additional question which, I think, is crucial, for example, in the situation we have now, in the spring, when it is to be expected that difficult weather conditions in the south will cause us to have additional falls in the bee families. These falls are often associated with various kinds of diseases. This was even the subject of research by the Supreme Audit Chamber because this area is supported by the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, the question arises as to whether we would not be able to lead to such a situation that every district veterinarian would have an assistant, it could have been a social assistant, because once such a solution worked, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which would regularly assist the veterinarian in monitoring the health of the bees in the area concerned. I'm asking you to supplement me, if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u61	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Jacek Bogucki, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the proposal to create a proxy position, whether in full form, i.e. as part of the duties of work, or as a social assistant to a beekeeper, I would like to say that this kind of solution has not yet been considered, we have not anticipated the creation of this position. Official activities in apiaries are carried out by employees of the district veterinary inspector, whereas laboratory tests are carried out by veterinary hygiene establishments and the State Veterinary Institute in Puławy. On the other hand, the moment is good enough to discuss this, that in the course of work - government - there is already a law on harmonisation, the merger of inspections that will operate in the future in the agricultural sector. As part of the work on this law, it is possible to consider this proposal, which seems to me as a non-professional in the veterinary field an interesting proposal. Indeed, this would save many from making such mistakes as my colleagues have tried to accuse me of. I'll admit I know a little bit about beemaking because I took over my father's apiary, and my father took over his grandfather, and I'll tell him that we had bees biting, that's what my village used to say. [[Because you didn't know anything about it.]] And that's where my knowledge is, I didn't get my book knowledge. Unfortunately, doing politics destroyed family breeding because there was no time to deal with it and fight it, among other things. with varroosis, which I regret. My hives, my grandfather - on one of them is the year 1921 - are still, unfortunately, no longer used, on my farm. To put it this way, I would like to say that I am facing those who, after the difficult 1990s, when they were actually trying to do all these kinds of activities considered to be perhaps less market-oriented, on the border of agriculture, give up for the industrialization of agriculture. The fact that beekeeping in Poland has survived, that beekeeping in Poland is developing, is a great credit to beekeepers, this environment, which has always been very active even in relations with the government. That is why this proposal will be handed over by me to the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we're gonna lean over her, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Ms Anna Czech, Ms Barbara Bartus and Ms Ewa Filipiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, are asked about the provision on the qualification of physiotherapists attending home visits contained in the regulation of the Minister of Health. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question concerns the problem of physiotherapists, or actually the question of competition. The records contained in the 2013 Regulation of the Minister of Health have caused problems with regard to healthcare providers entering the rehabilitation competition, which was due to excessive requirements for the qualification of physiotherapists. This should be a specialist in physiotherapy or second degree motor rehabilitation. It is known that such people are not very much in the medical services market, so they have made too high a financial claim and this has caused perturbation of the healthcare providers. Fortunately, a quick response by the Minister of Health on the conditions for specific benefits has calmed the situation and here we have the problems resolved. But knowing that the medical services market and the needs of patients are very dynamic and situations that are not foreseen can happen more, I wonder if... There is also a need to keep track of the changing needs of patients and the development of the market in order to take action quickly and effectively to ensure that benefits directed primarily to patients are provided. And the question to the Minister is, will the Minister consider it? Will the Minister return his competence to establish detailed conditions for the provision of benefits to the payer, now the President of the National Health Fund, because it is a large area and observation of this area from the level [[♪ The bell ♪]] Would the voivodship be more effective? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u65	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Zbigniew Król. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft regulation, which was also the original question, is at the stage of the RCL. At the moment we are waiting for the position of lawyers, this will be presented for the signature of the Minister, therefore it will actually be possible to restore the possibility of home rehabilitation by Masters of Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy. At the moment, as regards the system that is being created in relation to the qualifications of individual medical professions, we are in the view that, however, in the Ministry, where there is a department of science and education, and there is the part concerning the implementation of specific benefits, i.e. the setting of carts of benefits, the scope of competence to implement these baskets... We're in a position to make sure it's in the ministry after all. We hope that we will speed up this work, including with regard to such an assessment, which is in the various regions, of three.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u67	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u68	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two more questions. Will the Minister take action to allow training for a larger group of physiotherapists? Because today the waiting time for specialization in the field of physiotherapy is long, and the queues for physiotherapists are very long, so we need physiotherapists very much. That's my first question. And second question. Is it considered in the planning of changes in rehabilitation, changes in physiotherapy only to domestic rehabilitation? This would be especially important for those who are after strokes, those who are not. After leaving the hospital [[♪ The bell ♪]] such people should immediately be rehabilitated, and unfortunately getting to the clinic is very difficult for them and therefore it is worth to have such a separate contract for physiotherapists, home rehabilitators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u69	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u70	Thank you once again, Member, for the questions. As far as training is concerned, we are currently analysing the needs, as was said, of the healthcare market in the context of a specific specialty, but also of other medical professions. Therefore, during this year we will certainly have such an analysis, and I think that in a short time we will also launch stimulation so that there is more possibility of training physiotherapists who are waiting in line, as we hear, for these trainings. As for domestic rehabilitation separately contracted, at the moment we are working on carts of benefits and if we manage to separate it in any way, because it does not only apply to patients after strokes, but to the whole so-called. home hospitalization, where this part of physiotherapy and professional care, let's say helpful, not only medical, needs to be developed, then we will definitely go in this direction too. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Izabela Leszczyn and Halina Rozpondek, Civic Platform, on changes in the administrative borders of voivodships - to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Are you the Minister? There's no government representative. I'm declaring a five-minute recess... Very much so, ladies and gentlemen... [[But we're ready.]] No. [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] There you are, Minister. Okay, that's the timing. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Members of the Law and...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u73	Excuse me, excuse me, this is the Minister for the Members' Questions... [[We're ready.]] ...so, Member, please, let's wait because...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u74	Marshal, I understand that the minister who would like to answer my question is gone.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u75	He's not here right now. And you're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u76	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u77	No, no, it's not for that question. [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: A, not for this question, sorry.]] Excuse me, ladies... Yeah, we're making a switch. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I would also like government representatives to come on time to ask questions. Now we're asking question 10. The question is asked by Members Sławomir... [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: Marshal, I will answer both questions.]] Well, it turns out the Minister will answer both questions. You're welcome. Sorry about the mess. I invite Mrs Leszczyna once again. We managed to contain the messy situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Members of Law and Justice declared the appointment of the Częstochowa voivodship during the election campaign. The restitution of the voivodship is a subject in my city that causes great emotions. Częstochowanie see opportunities for dynamic development of the city and, above all, new, better paid jobs in connection with the voivodship. A few months ago, Members of the PIS in the local media assured that the case was in progress, we will see the case taken by the Częstochowa voivodship this year, and its finalization - within two to three years. In order to support Mr Simon Giżyński's efforts, during the consultation of the Responsible Development Strategy, I asked Prime Minister Morawiecki about the place of Częstochowa in this document, because I did not find any mention of Częstochowa, especially Częstochowa as the capital of the new voivodeship. Unfortunately, I received a negative response. It said: In the coming years no such change in the administrative system is planned. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs with the question: In the current term of office of the Sejm, does the government provide for changes in administrative borders of voivodships, in particular the appointment of Częstochowa voivodship? If so, at what stage are the government's work in this regard? In the context of the establishment of a new voivodship, can a new allocation of European funds be made from the present perspective, a significant part of which is still ahead of us? Are you aware that Częstochowa, as this new administrative entity, should appear this year, because this year we are starting negotiations with the Union on the future financial perspective? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question. What municipalities do you plan to establish the Częstochowa voivodship with?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, answers the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I am the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, but I will answer this question more from the point of view of the Vice President of Law and Justice, the ruling party... [[This is the Sejm, not the party.]] ...which actually said that the administrative map of our country should be corrected in terms of the division of voivodships. I would like to stress that this case is still valid. We do not retreat from these goals, but we will achieve them in the long term. Of course, no one can predict the outcome of the parliamentary elections, but if, in future parliamentary elections in 2019, the election result is similar to the 2015 election result, then, I wanted to ensure the High House, we will proceed with the correction we have announced. We consider the 1998 administrative reform to be highly unfortunate, but of course we want this to be the subject of a great discussion. We believe that possible changes must be preceded by broad public consultation. Of course, I would like to invite you to this consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mrs Halina... Do you ask an additional question? Here you go, Mrs Leszczyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u82	Minister! On behalf of myself and Mrs Halina Rozpondek, but above all on behalf of the inhabitants of Częstochowa, I would like the Minister to confirm whether we have understood correctly. The Government of Law and Justice does not plan to appoint the Częstochowa Voivodeship in this term of office. That's very sad news. I think that the inhabitants of Częstochowa will feel very disappointed and even deceived by the PiS. In this situation, however, I appeal to Mr Giżyński. Mr President, please do not mislead Częstochowian, do not tell tales that I am against Częstochowa voivodship. Here in the Polish Sejm, I declare that I am a strong supporter Częstochowa as the capital of strong Częstochowa voivodship. It turns out that the opposition to the voivodship is the government of Law and Justice, the government of Beata Szydło. That is why, Mr President, I ask you, when you look them in the eye, to tell them this because you must not deceive voters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you just have to be honest.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u83	Thank you very much. The Minister will still speak. Please, Minister of Interior and Administration, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madame, your statement is highly inappropriate. You're learning from words I didn't say. I said that in the next term, if the nation so decides, the Government of Law and Justice will proceed with the correction of the administrative division as regards the voivodship in our country. [[So that's not it.]] And that's what's gonna happen. And I encourage you to consult, as do the inhabitants of Częstochowa, as well as the inhabitants of all Poland. These consultations should be very broad in nature. That's it. This is our commitment to fulfill. And what you have already said goes beyond, I think, such elementary standards of decency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u85	Thank you very much. [[Excuse me, Marshal, in the form of correction.]] Here you are, Mrs Leszczyna, as corrected. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Minister did not understand my words, because it is not possible to say that there is something inappropriate in saying that the Government of Law and Justice does not intend to establish the Częstochowa voivodship in this term of office. If the Minister explains to me the difference between the statement of the Częstochowa voivodeship in the next term of office and the statement of the Częstochowa voivodship in the current term of office, I will grant you the right, but, by God, these two sentences mean, Minister, the same and my statement was appropriate. It is inappropriate to deceive the inhabitants of Czestochowa and to this, both Mr Rozpondek and I simply oppose.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u87	Thank you very much. We're moving on to... [[Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: May I still?]] You're welcome, Minister. Minister Mariusz Błaszczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was the end of your speech that was highly inappropriate. I'm not gonna say those words again. It's about such elementary honesty that you didn't want to prove. And whether the Częstochowa voivodeship will be established or not, this will be decided by the public consultation. This is the mechanism that we want to use, so public consultation. We are very interested in participating widely in this public consultation and, on the basis of this public consultation, decisions will be taken. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question, questions 10. Members of Sławomir Nitras and Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club, ask them to refrain from financing the 70th anniversary of the Vistula action. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u90	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I was directing the question to the Prime Minister, complaining about you, and I am somewhat sorry that the appeal against your decision is against you. This also demonstrates certain standards that operate in the Polish country under the rule of the PiS. In these days, as I hope the Minister knows, we are celebrating 70. the anniversary of the action of the Vistula. History says - historians in this matter agree - that the action of the Vistula was the most brutal example of the totalitarian policy of the communist state towards national minorities in Poland. We know that the action of the Vistula was covered by about 150 thousand. people and that it was ethnic cleansing. I would like to remind you that already in 1990 the free Senate adopted a resolution on condemning the shares of the Vistula, in which the Polish Senate stated, among other things, that it was appropriate for totalitarian systems and applied the principle of collective responsibility. The Senate, on behalf of the Polish State, also declared that it would seek to remedy all possible harm associated with the action of the Vistula. Minister! Poland is a civilised European country that cares about the historical memory of all its citizens, regardless of what nationality they are. All Polish governments have been actively involved since 1989 in the celebration of the anniversary of the shares of the Vistula. You are the first minister to decide that the Polish State should not co-finance this project. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, not you, because you made this decision, for which specific reasons the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration rejected the requests of Ukrainian organizations, Lemkovsky, to finance the anniversary anniversary of the Vistula action. Is the refusal related to the change in Polish policy [[♪ The bell ♪]] in relation to national minorities? Is the Prime Minister going to change the decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and is the Polish Government going to support Ukrainian and Lemkov organisations in these celebrations? And did the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u91	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u92	...will take part, or will someone on behalf of the Prime Minister take part in the anniversary celebration of the Vistula action? Thank you kindly, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u93	Thank you very much, sir. I invite the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak and ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by saying that the Polish government does not accept the methods appropriate for totalitarian systems, including displacements. Nor do we feel that we are heirs of totalitarian power. I would also like to stress that, when discussing the matter, the current context must be taken into account, i.e. comparing the events in fact incomparable, i.e. Exiles from 1947 and the Volyn massacre. Such comparisons unfortunately appear, especially beyond our eastern border. Today in Ukraine we meet with the cult of Bandera, a man responsible for crimes against Poles, genocide carried out by Ukrainian nationalists in Volhynia in 1943. Let me remind you that at that time more than 100,000 were killed in a beastly manner. Poles, including women and children. In the media space there are many statements by Mr Piotr Tyma, regretting that the Polish government did not finance the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Vistula action. I have instructed my colleagues to conduct a query of Mr Piotr Tyma's statements in order to condemn the flagship, and I have not found such a statement. You can wave your hand, of course, because you, obviously, aren't interested in over 100,000. people were brutally murdered. I would also like to recall the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 22 July 2016 on paying tribute to the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic of Poland in the years 1943-1945. I will remind you of the passage of this resolution: The Parliament of the Republic of Poland calls for the establishment of crime scenes and their designation, the provision of a worthy burial to all the victims found, the devotion of honor and respect due to the innocently tortured and murdered, the drawing up of a complete list of victims. I would also like to stress that the Polish Government supports Ukraine's entry into the family of European nations. We strive for the best relations with Ukraine, but they must be based on truth. Of course, we reject the principle of rhetoric, but we demand symmetry. I do not know of cases, that the Ukrainian government should finance places of commemoration of the Volyn massacre, and the quoted passage of the resolution of the Polish Sejm... [[The Senate.]] Seym. You don't remember either, but July 22nd. R. Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted a resolution, once again I will read about paying tribute to victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on citizens of the Second Republic of Poland in the years 1943-1945. So I quoted that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland called for the establishment of crime scenes and their designation. This shows that there is no preserved principle of symmetry. And that's the answer to the questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u95	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u96	Minister, well, this is probably classic for law and justice. We are talking about Polish citizens and about the celebration of the action of the Vistula, about deportations - you know very well that the Polish-Ukrainian agreement was built around these events - while you are talking about Volyn. And this is the policy of Law and Justice: Polish citizens of Ukrainian origin are taken seriously. And, moreover, it has been a tradition since 1989; when I was Minister of Administration, we also granted grants for this purpose. It was a tradition that was confirmed by bishops' letters and intellectual letters and, attention, also by the initiative of President Lech Kaczyński, then together with President Yanukovych. They made it clear that such anniversaries should be celebrated and that the Polish state should be involved, and you are withdrawing from it. It is not only that you have thrown out all the specialists who have dealt with ethnic minorities - you see, you have no specialists who can advise you in this area. - you're breaking it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] this tradition that existed since 1989, which Lech Kaczyński also worshiped, and at the moment you are talking about Volyn, not about the action of the Vistula. This is unfortunately very sad, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u97	Thank you very much. I invite Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will once again remind you of the context of this situation, that the Polish Government is as much in favour of Ukraine entering the European Union to come as close as possible to the European Union, but reconciliation can only be built on the foundation of truth. Once again I will say that I am not familiar with examples, you may know that the Ukrainian government finances the commemoration of the victims of the Volyn slaughter, while the examples of Ukrainian politicians who try to compare the action of the Vistula to the Volyn massacre are known. And that's disgraceful for me. These are incomparable events - these are incomparable events. You were Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs. [[Minister of Administration, Minister.]] You weren't Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs? [[Yeah, but that's not what it was about.]] Yeah. I'm appealing to this incident. You are a candidate for Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs in the shadow government of Grzegorz Schetin, and even a minister, but I could say in this way: you are deaf to the call of the families of the victims of the Volyn slaughter for justice. [[Something extraordinary.]] You guys are deaf to this. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That kind of cynicism hasn't happened in a long time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u99	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u100	Minister, if I wanted to touch you in any way, believe me, I would find excuses without a trace and I wouldn't even have to touch the candy, but it's too serious. You speak to Poles of Ukrainian nationality, citizens of Polish Ukrainian nationality, that they are not... You deprive them of their right to be Polish citizens, you diminish their rights. You do not understand the difference between a democratic state and a totalitarian state. You do not understand that the Polish state, a member of the European Union, has a special duty to take care of the rights of national minorities. You don't understand. It's a disgrace that a man of such mentality is a minister of the Interior. You are leading us towards exactly what you are criticizing in Ukraine, in exactly the same direction. You're no different from what you're proposing to the Ukrainians. Nationalism, dull nationalism, who doesn't understand the right of others to co-existence. People like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] never will not lead to an agreement between Poland and Ukraine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u101	Thank you very much. Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome. A minute for you, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll save myself a personal tour of yours... [[I'd appreciate it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u103	But I would really ask that this be about...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u104	...because I could summon your speeches from this pulpit when you occupied the Seym... [[I didn't eat Landrynek.]] ...but I'll spare myself and you. However, there is no doubt for me that the national interest of Poland, the Polish reason of the state is to ensure that Polish-Ukrainian relations are as good as possible. [[But how did you care?]] But you can take care of these relationships by basing our relationship solely on the foundation of the truth, not on lying - not on lying. [[What is the truth about the Vistula action?]] I already said that. I have already said this about those who try to compare the action of the Vistula to the slaughter of Volyn. [[But you're comparing it. You're the only one who compares.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u105	But please... Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: No. If you'd just... I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u106	...if you get a little interested in what's going on behind our eastern border, then... [[And we are talking about Poland, you are the Minister of the Interior.]] ...you'd have information, some information. But there is no doubt in my mind, and I said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the Polish government is fulfilling its international obligations. Polish citizens of the Ukrainian nationality have their rights, these rights are respected and this is fulfilled with due care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last one, the 11th question. The question is asked by MEPs Maria Zuba, Marek Kwitek and Krzysztof July, club Law and Justice, on the implementation of the so-called. A gambling bill. The first question is asked by Maria Zuba. You're welcome. Is there a Member? I can see that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 1 April 2017, an amendment to the Act on Gambling entered into force, which thoroughly modified the gambling market. It granted the power to a state entity to form a monopoly in the area of slot games and online gambling, excluding betting. According to the government's announcement, the law is to bring about PLN 1.5 billion a year of revenue to the state budget for the tax on games. In addition, representatives of the Ministry of Finance announced that the Act would provide tools for tax services to enforce gambling laws more effectively. This law aims to limit the gray area, increase the availability of legal gambling and increase the protection of players and prevent minors from participating in gambling. It also reduces the administrative burden on traders providing gambling services. Increases awareness of Poles about the risks arising from the use of services of illegal gambling operators. In this connection, I have a question to the Minister: How have these effects been achieved after the law entered into force? Was there a mass control action after the entry into force of the Act? What are its effects? You're welcome, Minister, to answer these questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u109	Thank you, Member. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Walczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, Madam President, thank you very much for this question. The problem of gambling, the gray area in gambling is a very sensitive social problem, which is why it is worth talking about. The amendment of the Gambling Act entered into force on 1 April this year, so it has been in force for only 1.5 months, of course. We may not have much experience in this area. It has introduced significant changes in the current model of the gambling market, which aim primarily at ensuring the highest possible level of protection for players and reducing the occurrence of the shadow economy in the gambling environment. Achieving certain objectives is intended to ensure as far as possible a reduction in the prevalence of socially and economically harmful effects of gambling, including losses to the state budget associated with the functioning of the shadow economy in gambling. Although the changes do not apply to gaming tax arrangements, due to the implementation of mechanisms to limit the grey zone and as a result of extending the scope of authorised gambling activities there is an increase in revenues from the gaming tax. According to the calculations carried out in the first year of operation of the changes, this law is to give up to PLN 600 million, and next year - about PLN 1.5 billion. However, I would like to point out that during the calculation it was assumed that the Act would enter into force in January 2017. Of course, a shift in the entry into force of this law can make this revenue a little smaller this year. The new solutions adopted in the Act equip the authorities of the National Tax Administration with tools to combat illegal gambling, regardless of where they are implemented. I would like to point out that today the fight against the gray gambling zone is really about two areas: the Internet and so-called. slot machines, which are, of course, standing in different kinds of places. The implementation of this objective is: the introduction of a register of domains for offering gambling in breach of the law - of course this register concerns illegal online games - the introduction of legal tools enabling the blocking of websites of illegal operators and the blocking of payments to operators who organize illegal gambling via the Internet, the introduction of a state monopoly on games on slots outside the casino, i.e. in slot arcades, and in the area of online gambling, the introduction of a ban on the possession of slot machines, excluding those strictly specified in the Act of the catalogue of entities entitled to hold them, the extension of the directory of entities liable to be liable to be punished for infringement of the provisions of the Gambling Act and the increase of administrative penalties, the introduction of criminal penalties for the possession of slot machines contrary to the conditions of the concession or against the conditions of the required official verification or without the imposition of the required official closures. Today's fine is punishment of up to 720 daily rates or imprisonment of up to 3 years or both. In conjunction with the powers deriving from the National Tax Administration Act - I would like to point out that the National Tax Administration Act entered a month earlier in relation to the Act on Gambling - this gave the new formation a number of powers, above all investigation and investigation powers and operational and research powers. There is also a new institution in the form of customs-treasure control, which can also be used to combat the gray area in the area of gambling. Of course, the National Tax Administration, with these powers, immediately after the entry into force of the Act on Gambling, began to eliminate from our public sphere illegal gambling. Although it has only been a month and a half, I believe that each of the ladies and gentlemen sees the results. Firstly, the number of advertisements that are also illegal in our public space has decreased considerably. Secondly, the massive action carried out by officials and employees of the National Tax Administration and Customs Service assisted by police officers who actively joined the action to limit the grey zone in this area, caused that by yesterday we verified 8800 locations where we know that there were illegal games were organized illegal games. What did it turn out to be? That only 390 controls were positive, i.e. in other locations the criminals themselves, because, of course, that's how we can define them, they removed the slot machines, so even the preventive action has already been very effective. Within the framework of these 390 resulting controls we took a total of 1330 slot machines, these are data from yesterday's day, additionally we took 2,000 more. vending machines in illegal warehouses, which also managed to break down. Of course, in most cases there are procedural and administrative actions in this area, and as of today we have already started several hundred preparatory proceedings from the Tax Criminal Code, from Article. 107 of this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, ladies and gentlemen, today in general positive results can be seen in the implementation of these legislative changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u111	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mr Krzysztof July, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you so much for presenting this information. This is good information from the point of view of the functioning of the Polish state. It can be seen that for 1.5 months, since the National Tax Administration Act and this gambling law have been in force, very specific actions have been carried out, much greater than in the last eight years of previous governments, when legislation has also been aimed at combating illegal gambling. At the time, there wasn't much to be done. And for this I would like to express my great gratitude to the Minister - that, indeed, at the moment, the Polish government cares about ordering this very difficult area of social life. I also wanted to ask what this situation is like at the moment, because there are probably entities who are trying to obtain gambling concessions, what this situation looks like, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how many such entities are and how the government sees the further shaping of this market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u113	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Walczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! The basic principle of the amendment is to introduce the principle that - as in most cases, for example. Scandinavian countries - in the area of the Internet and in the area of slot machines, the monopolist takes responsibility. This monopoly has been selected and he will be the dominant player in gambling, which, I think, will provide us with really great security from the point of view of the players above all. 'Cause I'm pointing out that this bill doesn't seem to be fiscal. She's first of all supposed to secure social aspects. I could talk a lot about various types of incidents, which are really very sad incidents related to gambling addiction and the operation of the grey zone in Poland. So... That's the basic rule. We, of course, allow more games, especially in casinos. Casinos operate on unchanged rules, as so far, the licensing of casinos has not changed. Therefore, in fact, players will have quite a wide range of access to gambling, but I stress once again: controlled by the Polish and safe states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u115	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm the information on the restructuring of coal mining will be considered, which was presented by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Grzegorz Matusiak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice pursuant to Article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I submit a request for the Minister of Energy to present the current information on the restructuring of hard coal mining by the Polish Sejm today. That's why I'm here. After years of neglect towards coal mining in Poland, the government of Law and Justice has undertaken a difficult repair of this sector by the PO-PSL coalition. 2015 was one of the worst periods for the hard coal mining industry in Poland for many years. The causes of the coal crisis should not only be seen as a drastic decline in world coal prices. The economic and deconstructive cycles in the mining industry are not a new phenomenon, they have been accompanying this sector forever. Therefore, the role of those supervising and managing mining is responsible and prudent behaviour, which requires that the years of prosperity be properly used to prepare for the so-called. Skinny summers. This responsibility and discretion lacked the PO-PSL coalition. I will not quote the words of former Deputy Prime Minister Elżbieta Bieńkowska from the famous recordings in the restaurant Owl and Friends, because most probably remember them perfectly. However, they perfectly reflect the state of decision-making inertia during the 8 years of the PO-PSL coalition. At a time of carbon prosperity, when coal companies in Poland brought billions of zloty profits, the state budget sucked profits from mining activities. Such a policy was first and foremost marked by Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. It is not only that all the money raised from the issue of shares of the company in 2011, i.e. more than PLN 5 billion, was transferred to the state budget, but also a large part of the profits of the JSW contributed in the form of dividends to the budget. Only between 2011 and 2013 it was over 640 million PLN. And when there were symptoms of the crisis in the coal market in 2014, the company financed by the funds had to raise PLN 1.5 billion more to rescue the Coal Company by purchasing the Knurów-Szczygłowice mine. Not only did this operation not get out of the troubles of the Coal Company, it still led Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa to the edge of bankruptcy. In fact, none of the people supervising the mining industry sought real restructuring measures which would lead to lower operating costs and increase productivity. All repair programs during the PO-PSL coalition were sham actions which, instead of leading the mining industry to a straight line, were even deeper, and it was for tens of millions of zlotys, which were collected by various ointments of advisors. In close bankruptcy, the Government of Law and Justice took over the supervision of the hard coal mining sector. Real and not fake corrective measures have helped to stabilise the mining industry. The establishment of the Polish Mining Group was undoubtedly a success. Thanks to the agreement with banks on debt repayment, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa managed to overcome the spectrum of bankruptcy of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. In December 2016, the European Commission accepted a government programme to mitigate the social and environmental consequences of restructuring coal mining in 2015 and 2018. Thanks to this, the process of repairing Polish hard coal mining can take place in an atmosphere of social peace. The last accent of this difficult process was the integration of the mines of Katowice Holding Węglowy into the Polish Mining Group, which according to the Ministry of Energy concludes an important stage of restructuring of the coal miner in Poland. Thank you for the projects already taken good for the Polish people, while waiting for the next ones, we ask you to provide information on the summary of the government's actions in the field of restructuring coal mining, in particular taking into account the answers to the following questions. Was it justified to include KHW mines in PGG? Can the inclusion of KHW mines in the structure of PGG cause redundancies among miners? Will this process be notified to the European Commission? Can the European Commission stop this process? Will the creation of such a large player on the market reduce market competition? Is coal prices expected to rise? What other important restructuring activities in the field of hard coal mining have been undertaken in the last few months by the Ministry of Energy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u117	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy by Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this debate that is beginning today. But I also want to thank you for all the time we discussed here in this Chamber and in the Energy Commission, where I had the opportunity with the representatives of the Ministry, with the boards of individual companies to present certain assumptions and cycles of decisions that we have made over the months. That's why I'm talking about it, thanking you for the time, because a stage has closed. We are, of course, facing the challenges of rational management and keeping an eye on the assumptions of the business plan, creating a sales market. But surely there is no doubt that on 1 April a certain stage has ended, we have today an orderly management structure in the hard coal sector. It cannot be overlooked that this stage makes us enter the next decision framework. And for this time of discussion, criticism and questioning, I want to thank all parliamentarians on behalf of Minister Tchórzewski, his own and the Ministry of Energy. Let's remember 2015 because memory can sometimes be fleeting. Difficulties with barbers, liquidity difficulties when it comes to wages, when there was a problem in regulating liabilities, not only when it comes to financial institutions, but also about mining companies. Today we have this situation and we are talking about price creation, there are questions about investment, whether there is a shortage of coal in the market. We're in a different place. And this is what should happen, and from this ceiling we have come to create in our sense and with our conviction decisions, which are the foundation of the Polish energy sector based in a large part on the hard coal sector. In the first place, the ministry's work went towards ordering the matter of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, which stood before the decision on the put option, as you know, concluded with one of the foreign banks, which in the course of insolvency had the right to declare bankruptcy and management of the assets of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. If this happened, today we would not have listed Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa with such good results on the stock exchange, there would be no investment plan that Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa would become a company of coke and not only a small part of energy coal. So this is about showing a different quality of mining structure in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, because we wouldn't decide that. What action was then taken? A quickly constructed business plan, which unfortunately became obsolete in January 2016, as coal prices fell over December and early January. In the meantime, an analysis was made of the situation of each mine, each wall, each coal stock in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, which made it possible for us to build a new business plan with intensity in February and submit it to financial institutions, banks which had their right to take liquidation decisions regarding Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. We based our structure on the acquisition of assets by entities in the Treasury sector, such as Viktoria, such as the SEJ, the heating system in the Jastrzębska company, or the restructuring fund, which invested 500 million of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company. This caused us to build capital at the level of 1,200 million, which caused the hawk company to breathe out. We then signed an agreement with the bondholders in August, presenting a business plan which showed what the investments would be and in which mine, and that Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa will be a company of 80%, 85% even in the hijacking, as we can do, by 2020, which produces coke, because the price of this coal is higher, and the costs of extraction are similar to energy coal. Since June, when we finished our work, we have signed an agreement with bondholders, we have a very good assessment on the financial market of Jastrzębska Węglowa, where its quotations have increased by almost 90%. It became a leader, denying everything that is said not only in Poland, but also in Europe, that coal cannot be made a good business, and became such that I would say, first on the Polish stock market, and not only the Polish one. And when it comes to Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, today we are at the stage of implementing investment assumptions, where we have reduced almost 20% of the costs. The truth is that prices are good for us, but believe me, and please don't say it again, because it's not true. - that if there were no 20% reduction in costs, we would not have synergies. Happiness must always be helped, and we all know it. But the opposition has rights, and I accept that too, and thank you for that, because I think that the most difficult questions are always asked in the care that they are true in their message. As for, please, the second entity, the Coal Company, it was transferred, as you know, which is its legal successor is the Polish Górnicza Group, which was created last year on 1 May. And we have an investment plan that was at the heart of it, and at the same time decisions that say that it's about parts of mines, like windows, like modifications, and about joining mines, building complexes, for the first time in history. Polish really, technically - and this also please accept - not administratively, as used to Sośnica-Makoszowy, but technically. Room and Bielszowice is a technical investment and not for 2 billion - and recently someone told me that 2 billion for Room and Bielszowice - because it didn't cost so much, much less. And this causes that by synergy of decisions according to the new philosophy that we have in the coal sector today, the foundation for us is a deposit, not a mine. The mine is a tool, the foundation is the deposit, so the availability of the deposit. That's why we want 10 mines and 30 walls in quotes, not 30 mines and 10 walls, so we don't say we're trying to keep 10 mines. This is a demonstration of a new philosophy in the space of the hard coal sector, because it is. And as you know, PGG has moved. We have negotiated notifications in the Union. The process of transferring unnecessary assets is taking place, which reduces the operating costs of PGG. Then we collided with what happened at the Katowice Coal Holding. This is an unprecedented situation. Originally, the data we received was more positive. Even the concept was less, I would say, dynamic, because it included Carboxyx, Enea. But it turned out that the debt was bigger when we started taking out the documents after we set up a new board. I don't want to go back to history, because it's not a matter of libelizing what's left of the predecessors, it's a starting point. It turned out that not 500 million, not 1 billion, not 2 billion, and 2600 million was the basis for the debt in Katowice Holding Węglowy, and 1200 million was the debt in banking institutions. And we started another round of talks, just like with the PGG, where we also had to negotiate appropriate agreements with banks. And there, believe me, is pragmatism, because it's hard to expect bankers to do anything other than pragmatism. So here we had to submit a real business plan, we had to negotiate a vision of Katowice Coal Holding with the social side. And as we started to build a business plan for the Katowice holding company, it turned out that the Katowice holding company was unable to bear this debt itself on the basis of the assets it had. Why? We're getting a supper mine. Besides, part of the Evening is already in the SRK from April 1st, some of it takes deposits, so we close the mine naturally, so we don't confuse it with liquidation. I know that there is no stable terminology in the Polish economic space, but let us agree that the liquidation is something else, and the extraction of the deposit, causing that there is a mine without a deposit, that is the departure to the SRK. [[Game in the O.R.]] You will have the right to ask me what I encourage you to do. If he's going, ladies and gentlemen, by continuing... [[Don't charm me, Grzegorz.]] ...the KH issue, these are more mines, Merry and Stashic, these are underinvested mines. Unfortunately, the neglect of the predecessors, Minister, because there was no analysis of the deposit and the future of these deposits, caused that two large mines with large resources were so underinvested that rapid support of 400 million was needed to save them, because due to the decisions of the Council of Europe, accepted in 2010 by the previous government, the Polish government, they would have to be closed, just eliminated. But in order not to liquidate, you have to invest. And in order to invest, you have to organize funds. And that is why we have made suggestions, directives of banking institutions, which have also given us such a condition that they would prefer the Katowice holding company to be involved in the PGG project. And that's what happened. And so from April 1st, assets of the type Merry-Mysłowice, Staszic-Murcki, future mines [[♪ The bell ♪]] Uncle, Silesia... Another half a minute, Marshal, if I may.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u119	You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: ...have been incorporated into the Polish Mining Group, which was preceded by an analysis of the deposits and synergies of the new entity. Qualityly, some other coal receives PGG, which will make it possible to raise its value on the Polish market. There's no internal competition. As for the UOKiK, we received the consent for the merger on 30 March - of course, there were questions, and rightly so - with the concessions, so in this difficult process also the Ministry of Environment did a great job. We reached an agreement with banking institutions which expressed their will and signed an agreement with us on 27 or 28 March which agreed to the establishment of the Polish Mining Group on the basis of the business plan that we submitted, the investment plan that is contained there, and, of course, the financial forecasts. We also signed very difficult... I want to thank the social side from this point of view for this difficult, but very much in my opinion an important social agreement, which makes two systems of employment contracts - the collective agreement in KHW, it was not here, it was agreed - we joined in this field of employment. We have directives, we have imperatives and an obligation... Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: One last word, Marshal, I'm really finishing up. Last word. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: It is until next year, until July 1st, the will to create a new, modern collective agreement in PGG, which is a challenge for us and the social side. Among other things, this agreement also creates a new quality for social dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. 39 Members have asked questions. Anyone else want to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. If we want to start voting on time, I propose time for the question - 1 minute. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice, is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The coal mining industry in Silesia saw a revival and hope, which is a direct result of the appropriate management and supervisory measures taken by the Ministry of Energy. There's a feeling that mining is finally changing for the better. It is this government, of course, the Law and Justice, that finally takes corrective and reform measures for the first time in eight years. Those are the facts, and I hope today the Minister will prove it. Therefore, important questions should be asked about the current state of the sector and about the systemic measures taken, those independent of the already implemented restructuring and organizing activities in coal companies, which, as we already know on the basis of very reliable economic and financial data, have produced very good results in the form of various types of indicators. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Next question: What else...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u121	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u122	... The Ministry of Energy intends to take systemic action to bring the mining sector straight? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u123	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Czerwiński, the Civic Platform. [[Andrzej, right?]] [[But Krzysztof's nice, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If I were malicious, I would remind you in this Chamber that the difference between what the previous government was doing and what our successors were doing in the Minister's opinion is to switch out to mute. But I'm not mean, so I'm gonna focus on positive things, what the Minister said. I do not take note of what was written to Mr Matusiak, because the Minister clearly said that there was no shortage of money for barbershops. We once said we wouldn't take our hands off the mines because they had to be paid. You've been given a prepared coal restructuring, in such a state that there was no shortage of payout money. That was the most important thing. And we've got the most important job to do in the package. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in winter also secure too for coal, for money pumped from energy into mining.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u126	Fingers crossed to make it work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to address questions to the Ministry about this debate. Does the Ministry have a plan to increase the number of operational fronts? Because, at the moment, coal shortages exist and it would be advisable, however, to play back the fronts in a way that, so to speak, is more efficient. Next question: Is there, and will be, a policy of education and employment of new workers so that there is a natural exchange of staff so that there is no shortage of workers in mining companies? I would also like to know how the Ministry of Energy views the concept of the winter package, which is practically hitting the support of coal energy and our national good, coal. Now the next question: How is the concept of coal gasification for the future energy policy of the country? And as for the payments about which [[♪ The bell ♪]] mentioned just now that there was no threat, in November 2015 there were virtually no payments. How did the Ministry prevent this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u129	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u130	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, On what basis does the government assume that mining will develop in the context that average coal prices are likely to fall in the coming years? What are the plans, what are the minimum costs we need to obtain to have some kind of security buffer, Minister? Are you also planning to attract private investors, but such truly private ones, i.e. not related to the State Treasury, when it comes to the exploitation of deposits in Poland? We talked about this here, there was information about private investors in Lublin. I would also like to ask whether, in the case of additional restructurings, if any, you are also planning to give further pension privileges to trade unions. Because I think that was actually the reason. These social unrests weren't at the time of extinction, closure, liquidation, what's his name, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So... I guess that was the reason. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u131	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm sorry, but I had other classes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[What, what?]] [[Voice from the room: 15 seconds are up.]] 15 seconds. It's okay. We'll be fine. I have a question about how, in the context of our coal extraction and the whole situation that we are dealing with, the energy system is looking at, because how much coal we are going to extract, how many coal mines are going to be active, which will be closed, destroyed, depends on what electricity we're going to generate. Today, the question arises as to whether we have an energy balance or whether we have a nuclear power plant. We don't have an answer so far. We can discuss coal, but there is a purpose to extract coal. So I would like to hear the answer to the question, when will we know it, when Poland will decide which [[♪ The bell ♪]] we will have an energy system in 5, 10 years and what energy mix will be in force in Poland then, because this is important.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u134	How much renewable energy... 15 seconds, you said, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u135	No, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u136	Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u137	You're welcome. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I ask a question, I would like to thank Minister Tchórzewski and Minister Tobiszowski for the exemplary work done in such a short time to save Polish mining. It is today that Polish mining after years of bringing it to collapse by the coalition of Civic Platform and PSL is in good condition. Today there are practically no threats to Polish coal and Polish miners, which occurred during your governments. Let me remind you that your form of dialogue was just rubber balls and conversations in front of octopus. This is how you rescued Polish mining. Minister, I have questions. Was it justified to include KHW mines in PGG? Wouldn't the inclusion of KHW mines in the PGG structure result in layoffs among miners? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u139	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u140	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is true that today we have to thank those who have been restructuring the mining industry. I'd start with the Civic Platform, from the Minister of Czerwinski, who'd bravely deal with it. [[Applause]] He advised, prepared some programs. I would also thank those presidents who were before the current presidents. Each of them worked for this company, each working for its economic success. It is important that today we all see how coal prices have fallen and how they are now soaring. The Minister pointed out to the extent to which the laws of economics actually govern today, too, that this result is such and not different. I also thank the Minister for this and thank the presidents who have continued this process. I hope we're moving the mining industry straight. But also, Minister, there is something that is disturbing, and it is close to my heart, and here is a great regret - you repeat today that this deposit is an important element for you. So the question is, why did you kill him? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Krupiński mine, where is the deposit, where is the concession until 2030, where are the great prospects for coking coal? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs. Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will quote a few quotes: We must fight for Polish mining. Makoszowy Mine and other Polish mines need state support. And that's the duty of the state. Anything you close, we'll open, because we'll bet on the Polish economy. These are the quotations from Prime Minister Beata Szydło's statement. [[You're repeating yourself. Think of something else.]] So I wanted to ask about the Krupiński mine: How does this apply to the situation of the Krupiński mine? And the other thing. I also wanted to know what the PGG commitments are, the ones that remained at this point. As for the last quarter of 2016, it turned out that the company is profitable. I would like to ask if this is not the result of the fact that investment outlays were cut by about PLN 300 million and why in the first quarter of 2017 the company's mines did not extract more than 1 million tons of coal. What is the result of these situations, and why is the money for the announced investments of about PLN 1.8 billion? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u143	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u144	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A very important subject in terms of quality weight, in terms of society, in terms of its place in the economy. I think this time is almost over, when we keep saying that those who were ahead of us were doing everything wrong, and these octopus trips and something else are going to be untenable to history. Minister, with the words of recognition for decisions and what has been said today, that the ownership situation in the sector is orderly. In the report, we note in the information that by 2018 there is a good time for development and functioning. Question: What after 2018? What will the government's policy be for the years to come? Is it coal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it be the primary source of energy, or will other sources, including renewable energy, be acceptable at this time? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u146	Minister, the Polish Mining Group is the largest company in the European Union. Will the creation of such a large entity not affect the restriction of market competition and what effect could this have on the functioning of Lubelski Węgiel Bogdanka SA? Is there anything you can say about this? Second thing. We read in the media that the Polish Mining Group has problems with mining. On the other hand, we need to get results in line with the business plan, because otherwise public aid will have to be reimbursed. Is there such a threat and how real is it? How do you see the change in the decision to build a power plant at the Zakłady Azotowe Puławy, which the previous team intended to base on imported Russian gas? Due to the discretion of the current Management Board, this decision has been reviewed. It did not endure the attempt to criticize or for economic reasons, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or for political reasons. Fortunately, it will be built on coal. What do you think this could have to do with our economy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u147	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Negotiations are currently taking place in the European Union on the Winter Package. Action... They should also be in Poland, not only within the European Union. Hence the questions: What is Poland's energy mix at the moment? What is the current energy policy of Poland? Activities within the European Union. What is the government doing in the European Union on this matter? What kind of allies do we have in the European Union? As a PO, we support the opposition to the 550 g indicator, on the basis of the subsidiarity principle, but we also demand effective negotiations within the Union. Therefore: What is the road map of the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the removal from the planned regulation on the winter package of the principle of placing emission requirements in it in the form of 550 g? And if the value of the permitted emission allowances affecting the power market is retained, what is the value? 750, 800? Will we fight? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Older boilers and higher emissions? We need to know that to know the limit values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u149	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The process of restructuring coal mining is a difficult process and I would like to congratulate you on your determination, because you have actually shown it a lot by putting a lot of work into solving this problem. On the other hand, I warn against hurrahoptimism, because we are still very far from the final solution. Let me remind you that there have been times when coal prices soared. Unfortunately, we didn't take advantage of these moments. There was no restructuring then, cost practice was loosened and today companies are in such a difficult situation. Unfortunately, these external threats caused by the winter package and the reform of the ETS will, as we know, lead to a limited demand for coal, certainly. Today we do not know to what extent, but it will be significantly limited. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you take this element into account in these activities? Because he needs to be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Janik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u152	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa - I wanted to ask about Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa - in the last several months she recorded a spectacular increase in the value of shares on the stock exchange. Let me remind you that during the reign of the Civic Platform the price fell to 8 PLN. Today she has increased almost a thousand times and these shares are around 80 PLN. For this we must thank the government of Beata Szydło, our ministers, who are here because the matter is really organized. To thank - as one of the Members said - is necessary, but what should we thank for? For not staying in Silesia, Jastrzębie, when the company was privatized, 5 billion PLN, Mr. Everything went to Warsaw. And that's what we're supposed to be thanking you for? Unfortunately, I don't do that. Minister, the opposition definitely thinks it's a recapitalisation effect, but what really became the reason for this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the hawk company is making a profit today? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u154	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Last year, almost 7.5 thousand were liquidated by the Government of Law and Justice. jobs. I wanted to ask when - at what time - and how many jobs will be created according to the Prime Minister's declaration that these new places in mining will be created. I also wanted to ask about the implementation of business plans, investments in individual mines and mining exterminations of the Polish Mining Group since May Ub. until today and the effects of the restructuring of the Coal Company, which was to be liquidated. In this place is the Polish Mining Group. I would like to remind you that several companies, including the company, are 26 members of the board, 63 members of the supervisory board and 26 procurents, and there are announcements that on the basis of the Coal Company there will be two new entities which will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] under the supervision of the State Treasury: Real Estate KW and Holding KW.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u156	Please respond in writing, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u157	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u158	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Someone here mentioned that coal prices are soaring. I do not know where they glide, because, given, for example, the ARA quotations, we are dealing with a clear downward trend, which can be confirmed by a simple analysis of these prices during the period January-April this year. Given this downward trend, I wanted to ask the Minister to be kind to explain on what basis the government assumes that the process will be effective and will lead, through its implementation, to the development of Polish mining. I also wanted to ask you about the stage at which you are with the energy strategy, because it is very easy to carry out certain movements tactically, but if we do not have a far-reaching vision of such a strategy, it is difficult for these movements to be rational in the longer term. I would very much ask that the Minister also refer to the possible coal deficit [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the Polish market in some perspective, because we are building blocks, and whether you take into account the existence of private mines in this strategy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, As a trade unionist from Silesia, I thank you for the honest, true, honest, though not easy social dialogue in this difficult process that you ministers are conducting. This is undoubtedly a new quality in the history of the Silesian mines after the police cordons had long since spoken to the miners defending their jobs. Now, here's the question. In April, Katowice Holding Coal mine was incorporated into the Polish Mining Group. Holding, as we have heard, is in a dramatic state, and the Polish Górnicza Group is doing better and better. Why was it decided to charge the company with debt-bearing holding companies? And second question. The Polish Górnicza Group is the largest mining company in the European Union, which departs from coal. What Polish Górnicza Group has a chance of stable, profitable functioning? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u161	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have asked about the fate of the Krupiński mine several times and we will not stop asking, because first of all, you promised Poles that you would not kill any jobs or any mines - Krupiński is an example that once again you lied to Poles - secondly, because you cannot explain or unambiguously answer a number of important questions related to the mine being destroyed. On 23 March, at the meeting of the treasure and energy committee, the chairman of the plant commission, the Solidarity Committee, asked specific questions that he had not received an answer to, and these are very important questions, such as why some foreign investors - the company's board of directors, mines, could not tell who the investors were - went down and what they were doing there. Minister! You have not responded to the offers of foreign entities that have been submitted, which is why I demand this answer. And finally why you do not want to invest 1 billion PLN [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the workplace, only in the mine's liquidation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Behind us is the first stage, I'd say, organizational. Of course, a number of problems are still ahead of us. I have a few questions about that. Minister! What is the final purchase price of the Brzeszcze mine by Tauron? I mean, of course, the issue of state aid. What was the financial result of Nowe Brzeszcze for 2016? Let me remind you that she ceased her activities in December Ub. r., so I think this amount is known, these results are known. What companies entered the Polish Mining Group and what funds did they contribute to this company? Is the government planning another recapitalisation of the Polish Mining Group and is it also planning to expand the circle of shareholders in the Polish Mining Group? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u165	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish mining industry, after years of failure and huge losses in the PO-PSL government, is slowly beginning to emerge. The Government of Law and Justice rescues Polish mining. The first step was the 2016 uprising. Polish Mining Group. Currently there was a merger of PGG with Katowice Holding of Coal. Thus, the largest mining group in the European Union was established. I have questions for the Minister and I ask for an answer. What is the share of Polish hard coal in the European market? How much longer will Poland be based on coal-based energy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In May 2015, the candidate for President Andrzej Duda said that in the first three months of his office he would submit a project that ordered the banks to convert franc credits to gold at the exchange rate of the day. 3 months later, the candidate for Prime Minister in the election campaign Beata Szydło said that all the mines that this evil government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party closes, you will open. What is the connection between these two statements? The fact that both are lies. That's a lie you're going through, and as your leader says, it's an art to admit that you're wrong and get out of this mistake. Minister! You continue to consolidate the sector, you take care of the costs - okay. The truth is that the Polish taxpayer pays PLN 8 billion for this. I ask you: How many mines [[♪ The bell ♪]] is closed, how much more will be closed and how much money has already been spent on this restructuring process? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Given world trends, carbon price parameters and their decline, I wanted to ask how the government assumes that the process will be effective and will lead through its implementation to the development of Polish mining. I also wanted to ask how many functional trade unions sit on the supervisory boards of companies operating in the environment of mining, what scale it is, but whether it is the price of social peace around the reform of mining. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u171	Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform. I'm sorry, Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. Excuse me. [[It's okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u172	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A year ago, the mining situation in Poland was dramatic. What's the situation today? Is it true that at the end of 2015 there was a lack of money to pay the miners, that actions, or rather omissions, the Civic Platforms led to financial collapse of coal companies? Did coal companies threaten to fail in 2015? Can we say that the government of PO and PSL, through the collapse of mining, wanted to burden another government with the catastrophe that it was preparing for Upper Silesia? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns fundamental issues. In general, I can formulate them in this way: Is the economy intended to serve mining or is mining intended to serve the economy? In his statement, the Minister stated that the foundation was the deposit. I would be more pleased if your policy was aimed at the interests of the consumer and competitiveness of the Polish economy. Law and Justice transformed the structure of the government, heading towards the Ministry of Poland. As in the Polish People's Republic, strategic decisions determine the case of the interests of groups connected with particular industries. In the longer term, consumers will pay for this and the competitiveness of our economy, as the result of the huge transfer of funds from the electricity sector and the restriction of competition will sooner or later be an increase in energy prices. In the less flexible structure you are building, it will be difficult to respond to changes, and changes are inevitable as a result, among others. technological progress following these new regulations. Minister, for the moment's political satisfaction, you're building a structure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which in the long term will be a crutch for the Polish economy and will require repair, the more painful it will be, the further this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u176	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The situation in Polish mining is generally not the best. There have been bad practices in it for years, and even mafias that have mastered the mines and the coal market. It is heard about large coal heaps, and practically coal of medium and good quality, both thick and in the form of had, it is very difficult to buy. This has been the case for years. Do you need that many intermediaries to buy coal? Holding, the dealer, finally the retailer and the output price of coal in the mine gets twice as high along the way. It seems that mines could easily have a higher price at the start, apart from these intermediaries, and it would be more rational and profitable for mines. When do we start thinking economically? Is there even a chance of that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Jolanta Hibner, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Recently, we discussed the amendment of the law on the restructuring of stone mining and the related issue of mine decommissioning. The Budget Act provides funds for restructuring costs, including cover fund for underground miners. The Fund was agreed with the European Commission as part of the permissible financial assistance of our country. However, despite many doubts already raised by the legal office itself, a provision has been introduced for a 4-year period of leave paid in the pre-retirement period for several dozen trade unionists from the Land authorities. Every one of them gets about 10,000. PLN per month for a period of 4 years. Well, congratulations. I have a question as to whether this amount has been agreed with the European Commission and whether the Commission has agreed to such public aid. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't think so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u180	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In just a year, the Ministry of Energy took a number of measures to save Polish mining, especially jobs for thousands of miners and companies around the mining industry. I am very grateful that you followed the path of dialogue, not confrontation, as the predecessors of PO and PSL did. Minister, what other important restructuring activities in the field of hard coal mining have been undertaken in the last few months by the Ministry of Energy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I do not want to refer to the electoral assurances and promises that have been made many times, but, in conclusion, I will simply say that despite numerous electoral assurances on 31 December 2016, the decision of the Ministry of Energy stopped mining. And I'd like to ask you about that Makoshov mine today. The number of employees in this one mine has been reduced from 2 000. Up to 1.5,000. persons. The first question I ask the Minister concerns the calendar of future actions. Is it ready, announced in January, a detailed timetable for the decommissioning of the Makoszowy mine? How are the different stages? The second question relates to the costs of decisions taken for the Treasury. I would like to remind you that the mine was originally scheduled to expire until the end of 2018, and was now extended until the end of 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will therefore be the total cost of this extended liquidation process? The rest of the questions I'm gonna have to ask on the way to the interview because the time's up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Skeptics - I hope that not the opponents of the current restructuring activities in the hard coal sector - indicate that energy and mining capital connections are saving one industry at the expense of another. In this case, the mining sector is being rescued. Without going into a broad debate with these views, I would like to hear the opinion of the Ministry of Energy on this subject. What do you think can benefit from the integration of the stone and energy sectors in both sectors, namely mining and energy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS promised that there would be no liquidation of any mine, today it is already officially said not to extinguish or silence, but to close the mines. What is the restructuring of mining according to Law and Justice? The miners from Krupinski, from the Makoshov mine... [[They're fine.]] ...remember how during the election campaign the current Prime Minister Szydło made a promise that the mines would not be destroyed. She's kept one in her family's Brest so far. The Ministry of Energy eliminates Krupinski in Suszc, where there are coking coal deposits. It was the first mine to use engines to convert methane into electricity. In this mine, too, the work on innovative ways of using this huge natural wealth, methane, has continued. Has the government taken into account that the investments would allow Krupiński to develop and use resources worth tens of billions of zlotys? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What Neglects You guys talk? Did the Civic Platform close down the mines? You guys shut down the mines and pretend like everything's okay. Why did you cheat the Poles? [[Applause]] [[Yes? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Members of the Civic Platform, I have very interesting information for you today, very positive. I think you'll be very pleased. Yesterday, in the Warsaw Stock Exchange building, Grupa Azota and Tauron signed a letter of intent regarding the construction of coal gasification plant in Kędzierzyn-Koźlu. [[Three already.]] Grupa Azoty will use the project on the use of Polish coal mined by Tauron, among others. for the production of methanol or ammonia. [[We'll see.]] Until now methanol has been entirely imported and ammonia has been produced on the basis of imported natural gas. The installation, which will be set up in Kędzierzyn-Koźl in Opole region, will belong to the so-called. clean coal technologies. It will be the first such line in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The investment is expected to cost around EUR 600 million. Five years from now, the first million tons of coal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u189	Draw close to the end, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u190	...to be converted into gas in Curly-Kid. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u191	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u192	Minister, I have a question: To what extent can these new technologies serve to defend Polish coal in the European Union... [[National.]] ...and negotiating the energy winter package? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u193	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If it's so good, why is it so bad? Coal mining across the country in February 2017 was tragic, record low compared to the last few years. That's what the results and statistics are talking about. Thanks to the special mining bill, trade union workers will be able to go on the mining holidays mentioned earlier. Taxpayers, Poles will pay several million a year for this. Mining holidays have so far belonged only to miners working underground, who have been retired for 4 years or less. From May 2015 to December 2016 more than 4 000 leave. miners, and the budget paid over PLN 263.5 million for this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is the novel of the Mining Act allowing millions to be paid for checks for workers who did not work underground rather than invest in mines that need these funds? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u195	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The acquisition of coal mines, Katowice Coal Holding mines by the Polish Mining Group became a fact. Before that, it was said that banks were to convert part of the debt of Katowice Holding of Coal into shares in the Polish Mining Group after taking over these mines, but this did not happen. So I have a question: Why didn't this happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u197	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I understand that as a minister, you prefer to talk about success, it's natural. But there's another side to the medal, dramatic for people. It's about permanent job losses. I have a specific question: How many jobs have been permanently decommissioned in mining? How much money has been spent on this liquidation from the state budget under PLN 8 billion allocated for restructuring and mine decommissioning? How many more jobs will be permanently decommissioned by the end of the restructuring process? What is the government's idea of restoring workers who have lost their jobs permanently to the labour market? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question. Minister, you've connected three mines to one mine in Red. How many people lost their jobs as a result of this process? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u200	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about regulations that equalise the chances of Polish coal in a fight with cheap unclassified Russian coal. The question of protecting your own market is an issue of imponderabily. Therefore, the question is: When will these rules come into force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we have heard a great deal of good information from the Minister and representatives of Law and Justice about how it has been good in mining for several months. Except the statistics are telling us something else, but never mind. Let us give time and opportunity, after all, it is our common interest to make Polish mining work. I have a few questions. First of all, if the price of coal in Poland increases, taking into account mining restrictions. At the same time, I ask that you exclude this or confirm the statements of Minister Tchórzewski that you will not block imports into Poland of low quality coal from beyond the eastern border, including coal mules, which, as we know, for the Polish environment, are simply dramatic for the air. How much is the price going to go up? And at the same time, how many people have lost their jobs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You were talking about restructuring management... I'm almost done, last sentence. ...how many managers, how many union workers and how many ordinary miners? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u203	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the fate of the mining strategy that was in the Ministry is being prepared, but at which time the work was quieted down. I think that this strategy should undoubtedly be linked to the energy strategy, because Polish mining is immanently linked to this energy sector. It should be the basis for further action, if we are talking about any restructuring at all, because for now we have actually a semantic restructuring: from extinction we have moved on to silence, from mute to scrapping. I am curious as to how much of this creative creativity in this area, and we would definitely need to get to work. How are these plans for climate policy reform? Because, of course, we can take offense to her, but eventually, we're gonna keep an eye on her. [[♪ The bell ♪]] if not within the European Union, it is within the global trends. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u205	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Law and Justice. You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u206	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The decision to transfer the Krupiński mine to the Company for Restructuring of Mine is not an easy one. It's certainly difficult, brave, but necessary. The economic arguments presented by ministers are convincing, among others. because the renegotiations of the restructuring agreement of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa debt with banks ended negatively. The termination of this agreement would mean an immediate debt obligation, and that would be a disaster for the company. My question is as follows: Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa returned to WIG20. Share prices fluctuate, but they persist at a fairly high level, because currently coke prices are high. How's the company gonna do when the coal prices fall? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u207	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Under the law on the restructuring of coal mining, workers of mining plants may benefit from social protection. Bottom workers, as well as miners working in mechanical processing plants who meet the relevant conditions, may benefit from this. Those miners who do not meet these conditions may benefit from one-off social security checks. It must be said that this social package works very well. Therefore, my question: Minister, how many people, how many miners have benefited from this package so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u209	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By the end of 2020 The Polish Górnicza Group, recently expanded by four mines of Katowice Holding Węglowy, will allocate an enormous amount of over PLN 7 billion for investments. I have a question for you, Minister. Please tell us what investments will be made under these measures. Please specify possible deadlines for the implementation of individual investments. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister, the Ministry as a whole, for his determination to fight for Polish mining. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u211	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the beginning, I would like to thank the current Minister for the actions that have led our mining industry straight. On the basis of the assets of the Węglowa Company, Poland Górnicza Group sp. z o.o. In the company, however, there was a non-production property. What's next with this property and what's next with this company? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u213	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Grzegorz Matusiak. There isn't. I ask Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for that handful of questions. This shows that the coal sector and, by the way, energy issues are important in this House. And yes. As for Mr Czerwinski's question, the winter package is indeed a very important issue and it has been moving forward. A few questions. We are currently preparing a position as a ministry to become a government position, we will direct it to both Chambers, the Sejm and the Senate, an appropriate position to discuss what I once had the opportunity to present in the Energy Commission, and ask for appropriate support. We started talking, and when Chancellor Merkel visited, she talked about it, because actually keeping this digital size 550 g per kWh makes it possible that after 2021 de facto investments in energy can be based only on gas and not on gas, gas, nuclear and renewable, which makes it possible, with certain derogations, to allow for a certain period of time certain blocks that we need to change, we are not able to organise such large investment resources, and at the same time we are not able to reclassify Polish energy. That's my assessment, my opinion. Therefore, I participate in the preparation of these materials and I think that we should be united here, because this is a matter not so much of an appropriate group as really the right state of Poland. So that I thank you very much for bringing up this subject, because it should definitely be us. Regarding Mr Sitarski's question, on the number of operational fronts, yes: 7200 million by 2020. The Polish Górnicza Group prepared for investments, this is included in the business plan. In such a material that we have allowed you, without knowing about the debate, to hand out to the boxes, we have the initial sizes mentioned. This is the preparation of walls, this is the preparation of fronts when it comes to access, or sidewalks, this is also adjacent infrastructure, so the whole resource of mining technology, so that we increase the investment front in individual mines. This is also a signal for the mining environment, for companies that know that such a size will be distributed. This is what we have, and in detail I can write you down in writing where we are preparing appropriate investments in the mine. They have, they have caused this predictability also in the mining environment. The same thing happens when it comes to the Jastrzębska Coal Company. From 2017 to 2021 we have 3 billion in the investment plan. And here these 3 billion are going in the direction of these deposits, mostly coke coal, so this is about converting from energy into coke deposits. Then, in terms of staff training, we actually balance the demand for individual mining professions. This is something that stands before us, because we really need an injection of prepared management staff, not only from the mining industry, but also from the management of complex mines, where we are also talking about financial flows. Hence we have advanced talks and with institutes, and with universities, an appropriate agreement we have with the University of Economics on intellectual support, advisory support, and we also want to ask for the preparation of staff, we are starting talks with schools about preparing us for mining. And this is the next stage before which we stand, supplementing individual professional ranges in mines: in Jastrzębska, and in the Polish Mining Group. As far as coal gasification is concerned, because that was also the case for a few questions, we are determined as the Ministry to implement this technology industrially as soon as possible. Hence, among others. this visit next week to the Energy Commission on site to look at the installation. We also consider this investment elsewhere. We are really determined as a government to either implement the technology we have, or buy investments so that we can implement it as soon as possible, because this will allow us to use coal efficiently, burn it ecologically, and at the same time show the European Union that we are using new technologies that can definitely be acceptable in terms of the climate package. I'm not talking about the winter package. Mr. Kobyliński asked about the assumptions. With regard to mining development and private investments in mining, we as the owner of the Treasury plan our projects on ownership supervision, but we are not against private investment. Besides, I think working with Silesia's mine... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u215	I ask for peace, because those who want to hear the answers to the questions do not have a chance to hear the answers. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: And here it is not for us to assume hostility about a private investor, but I do not hide that we cover the concern of our ownership supervision, which is connected with the Treasury. As for the trade union privileges, I would like to say that if you saw them, we did not report any additional privileges when it came to the social side. We only wanted and in this bill, which Minister Tchórzewski had the opportunity to refer to the Sejm, we proposed that those involved trade unionists who have a working period in bottom positions and have their working period, commitment to individual mines, also at a certain age take advantage of the possibilities of these checks, which are in our package of the Mining Restructuring Act. Mr. Kasprzak brought up a very important subject, and I thank him for that. The energy system - this is actually ahead of us. I think by the time of the summer, I hope that we will be able to present you with a framework for the Power Market Act. This is indeed a very important issue. This correlates with the whole system of the hard coal sector, but also with the brown coal sector. It's a question of determining the energy mix. He's not simple, but he does have to be. We are now following the first discussions in the European Union on the principles of the Power Market Act, because we would like to propose to the High House such regulations in the Power Market Act, which would already be acceptable or discussed in the European Commission, so that it is not that we will adopt something in the High House and it will suddenly turn out that we will not receive a proper notification. Of course - what I said in the Energy Commission - we are also after the January conference, which we devoted to what intellectual resources we have, investment in the construction of a nuclear power plant, because we also have to settle this issue in Poland. I think that this issue, which is inextricably connected also with what we are doing in the hard coal sector, because it only makes sense that coal is organized and brown coal is organized and capitalally, which is the base of Polish energy in a mix of energy... It makes sense that such a reform is being carried out and that we have some expenditure on this reform. About the next question... I'm sorry. Mr Gadowski asked, talked about this about the previous board of directors, I will not refer to it here, but it is about the continuation of the Krupinski issue. I'll have it handed to me from my jury. I will show you the document - I invite you even to the Ministry - a document that has recently been in our possession, about the assumptions of the entire Krupinski project. And I'm glad that there are still defenders talking about how valuable Krupinski is. It's all in itself. I would like to tell you that an agreement was concluded on 17 April 2015. I will read only what is the purpose of this agreement, why Krupiński was to stay in the resources of the Jastrzębska company: This agreement is concluded for the preparation and implementation of the project of mine construction and coal exploitation, methane by Silesian Coal in the area of Orzesze using - and I would very much ask you to hear well - the infrastructure of the Coal Mine Krupiński which is part of the JSW. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement concluded in 2015, when there was no Ministry of Energy, and the details contained therein show... If someone comes to the ministry, I'd be happy to introduce them to the content, because I don't want to wave something about which, say, someone will say that I'm waving, but I would ask you to ask about Krupinski and be aware of what's going on. Is it really that Krupiński is such a forward-looking mine, or has Krupiński been cut by investments, modifications and walls under the German investor? [[Applause]] And whether now the Polish government had in the interest of the Polish entity, which is the Jastrzębska company, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To do everything to get Silesian Coal to connect with Krupinski, using the infrastructure, to earn money? Did that make sense? And that's the answer if anyone asks about Krupinski. With 7 and 8 analyses showing that Krupinski himself does not cling to himself, the banks have committed the government... We are nearing the end, Minister, your statement. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: ...the Polish government, so that, if it wants to maintain the agreement, it will not continue with the Krupinski, in such a variant. That is why banking institutions, which you also know about, because it was at the committee meeting, they said it. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we will respond in writing to everyone. As far as issues relating to the merger of KHW with PGG are concerned, the merger makes what I said is synergy, a new sales market. And there were questions about selling coal. Thanks to the combination of PGG and KHW we can create a sales market. We are entering a new sales system, online, creating a new quality coal, because we want to remove low quality coals from the market. There was a question about mules and they did. We want in our Coal Quality Act, which will enter... Mr... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: ...on the days already under discussion of the government, because it is in public consultation, to block low coal, which affects Poland, as well as the Polish Mining Group will not offer private people sales of mules and low quality coal. [[Applause]] This is also a response to environmental issues, to smog issues. Thank you very much, Mr... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Ladies and gentlemen, to what I have not answered, we will respond in writing. Thank you very much for this debate, for the discussion on this subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: How many mines have you closed?]] Thank you very much, Minister. That concludes the examination of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! How did the restructuring measures undertaken and the combination of energy with coal mining improve the situation of the hard coal sector? What are the directions for the development of the hard coal mining sector in the coming years?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u217	I'm declaring a three-minute recess and we're starting the vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 09 h 13 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted proposals for the selection of the new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs, as well as for changes to the personal composition of the Sejm committees. Applications shall be printed in Nos 1504 and 1505 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This is a new bell, ladies and gentlemen, from Felczyński, a well-known company, but please keep in mind that it's ringing louder. [[Applause]] The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 90th anniversary of Tadeusz Mazowiecki's birth. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection, Marshal.]] There's an objection, right? Mr Winnicki objects, all right. I'm sorry, sir, I didn't ask you to speak. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal conclusion.]] We'll be looking at the formal proposals in a moment. Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member, wanted to justify opposition, right? There you go. I'm assigning you one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft resolution submitted on the anniversary of the birth of Tadeusz Mazowiecki contains... It's incomplete. It's just incomplete. That is why I have proposed today to President Richard Petru that they withdraw from this draft resolution and complete it. And since Mr President, as in public speeches himself, is not passionate about history, I have proposed the content of such a supplement to the draft resolution. Now I would like to propose: In the period of Stalin's terror... It is about the beginning of this draft resolution, because the CV of Tadeusz Mazowiecki is incomplete in this draft resolution. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Robert, no one listens to you.]] The first 10 years of Mazowiecki's public activity are as follows: Tadeusz Mazowiecki was involved in the political fight against the anti-communist underground during Stalinist terror. He was among others. the co-author of the publication, the enemy remained the same from 1952, in which [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fighting against totalitarianism, guerrillas were compared with Nazis and regarded as - quotes - allies of yesterday's attackers from Dachau, Oświęcim and Mauthausen. [[Get off the podium.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u219	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u220	In justifying and justifying Stalin's terror, Mazowiecki claimed among others.: It would be an ahistoric sentimental tenderness...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u221	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u222	...do not see that every great change in history involves victims in people, etc. [[Time's up, Marshal.]] High Seym, I appeal for the truth about Tadeusz Mazowiecki in this Seym. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u223	Thank you, sir. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal conclusion.]] Two Members have made formal submissions to this point, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a formal request, Mr. Marshal, for a break and a convocation of the Senior Convention. The case concerns the preparation of information by the Attorney General in the context of events related to Mr Wacław Berczyński. The High House and the public, Mr. Marshal, should be aware of the actions of the Attorney General in this case. The situation is extraordinary because in the background of Mr Wenceslas Berczyński suspicions of unclear and unauthorized lobbying...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u225	Mr, but this proposal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u226	...of interference, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u227	...does not concern the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u228	Mr. Marshal, let me finish. ...to decide in an unlawful manner to terminate the tender at the caracale.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u229	Mr President, this proposal does not concern the agenda. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u230	Mr. Marshal, the Attorney General may be...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u231	Yes... except that formal applications may be made in relation to matters to be discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u232	Marshal, under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1, please convene the Senior Convention, announce a break and prepare information with the Attorney General on a possible investigation of Mr. Wacław Berczyński...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u233	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u234	You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u235	Thank you, sir. But I remind you that your lips. 2 of this article, which you referred to from the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, reads, quote, "The formal proposals may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting." So don't abuse the interpretation of the rules. I cannot accept your proposal as a formal proposal. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club. Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I am submitting a formal request for a break in the proceedings so that, first of all, the Prime Minister, but also the most important of the Members in this Chamber, may be familiar with the law which the PiS Group has prepared for us today, the Law on the amendment of the Fire Protection Act. Ladies and gentlemen! When in Poland we have storms, natural disasters, they are firefighters volunteers. When it's great national and church holidays, it's volunteer firefighters. When it was necessary to prepare the adoption of the Holy Father, our John Paul II, the present Francis, are firemen. They don't get 2 billion zlotys for protecting railway stations, they don't get any money. They act with the need of heart and conscience. On the other hand, a group of Members, which probably does not have much to do with the activities of volunteer firefighters, has prepared a change in the bill, which, perhaps as a gift for St. Floriana, our firefighters, millions of bridesmaids and bridesmaids in Poland, actually brings to an object that can be given politically as you wish. Ladies and gentlemen! Think about it again. These really are people who, without any funding, out of the goodness of their hearts, out of necessity and honor towards... out of the need to honor the right attitude in our country. And you take away their power to decide. How are you going to celebrate Florian and shake their hands? I ask you to take a break and withdraw this point. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u237	Thank you very much. At the moment, we will be voting on two proposals: one in the form of an objection, which Mr Winnicki has tabled on the committee's report... One more formal motion. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. But to these points and to the agenda? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes, to the 1st point.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal application on the basis of Article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 7 so that we can move on to the vote without discussing the 1st point. [[On behalf of you?]] I would like to stress that just in order to respect the memory of Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, who was a man whose public activity was characterized by the fact that he was able to build bridges even over the sharpest political disputes, we would not want a resolution commemorating the anniversary of his birthday to be a cause for any parliamentary disputes. That is why we are making this request. This proposal is agreed with the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, with the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, but also with the circle of the European Union of Democrats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u239	Thank you very much. So we have three votes at the moment, because the proposal by the Member is also as correct as possible. I will therefore put these proposals to the vote in the order of the notifications. First, in view of the opposition raised as regards the application of the Article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, shall be decided in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he will raise his hand and press the button. [[What does that mean?]] [[Mr. Marshal, we don't know what we're voting on.]] So, as proposed by the Bureau of the Sejm, which I mentioned at the beginning and about which the opposition was raised - to clarify... Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 31, 11 Members abstained. [[Applause]] I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I will now put to the vote a formal request for adjournment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 172 Members voted against - 263, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. At the moment, we will vote on the motion to move to a vote without discussion. This is about the report of the cultural committee on the resolution commemorating the 90th anniversary of Tadeusz Mazowiecki's birth. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the Sejm going to the vote without discussing the second reading... [[Voice from the room: Aclamation.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 398, against - 33, with three abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. I could not vote because such a wording is not in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 90th anniversary of Tadeusz Mazowiecki's birth (prints 1477 and 1486). Before giving the floor to the rapporteur, I should like to inform you that we are being watched and listened to by a group of young people from hawk schools. I'm so glad to see you. [[Applause]] I will now ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday there was an important and interesting conversation during the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture. I would like to thank all the groups that took part in this discussion from this point of view. I thank the Members of the PiS for expressing their thoughts, this is an important part of our debate. I would also like to thank the Kukiz Members15, who have also taken an active part in this debate, which is important. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth thinking more about the meaning of Polish democracy today. And at this point it is worth paying attention to the work of Tadeusz Mazowiecki, who - as you know - was the first non-communist Polish Prime Minister. This is the work of Tadeusz Mazowiecki which is democratic Poland. I would therefore like to read... [[Game in the O.R.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the text of the resolution. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] May I have your attention, please? The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland... Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Thank you very much. The resolution of the Polish Parliament on the celebration of the 90th anniversary of the birth of Tadeusz Mazowiecki. In connection with the 90th anniversary of Tadeusz Mazowiecki's birth on 18 April 2017, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the first non-communist Prime Minister of Poland. Tadeusz Mazowiecki - a publicist and politician, during the period of the Polish People's Republic he was one of the most important activists of Catholic circles, co-founder of the Catholic Intelligence Club and editor-in-chief of the monthly magazine. As a member of the circle, the Mark sought dialogue between the then authority and the Church. In March 1968 he publicly protested against communist repression against students and in December 1970 against workers on the Coast. In the 1970s he became involved in the activities of the democratic opposition, among other things, he was an advocate of starving people in the church of St. St. Martin. He was one of the signatories of the 64 Apel signed by intellectuals who supported strikers in Gdańsk Shipyard. At the invitation of Lech Wałęsa on 24 August 1980, he headed the Committee of Experts at the Bureau of the Inter-Building Strike Committee. In 1980, Tadeusz Mazowiecki became the editor-in-chief of Tygodnik Solidarno, an expert and advisor to NSZZ. He was an intern at war. Tadeusz Mazowiecki was one of the architects and participants in the Round Table agreements, which led to the first partially free elections in June 1989. On 24 August 1989 he became the first non-communist Prime Minister of Poland. His government has carried out key economic and systemic reforms which are the foundation of Poland's development as a democratic state. Until his death in 2013, Tadeusz Mazowiecki was involved in public and social activities. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland - appreciating the outstanding role of Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle, statesman, patriot and architect of Polish freedom - pays tribute to his memory. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u241	Thank you, sir. And according to the decision of the earlier Sejm, we proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. I remind you, the committee is asking for a draft resolution from print No 1486. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1486 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. The vote was 343 against - 39, 11 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 90th anniversary of the birth of Tadeusz Mazowiecki. [[Applause]] The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee submitted a report on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for a second reading of the project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, prints No 1482 and 1492, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Two Members have voted 229 against - 201. I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposal to complete the agenda. We proceed to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (prints No 1482 and 1492). I ask Mr Łukasz Rzepecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm results from the contents of the Act of 9 March 2017 on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. The Commission held its meeting yesterday. At the committee meeting, the amendments were tabled by the member of the club, who had been rejected. The amendments tabled by the rapporteur were accepted by a majority. This issue concerns the addition of Article to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Article 31 31a, which aims at, among others, regularisation in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the procedure of appointment of persons to the above mentioned. the authority. A proposal for selection may be submitted by at least 35 Members or by your marshal. It also means that the resolution will enter into force on 5 May 2017. In view of the above, the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee, following its first reading and examination of the draft, asks that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u243	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak in the debate? No one's checking in. [[Voice from the room: Signed up.]] Mr Urbaniak is reporting. There you go. I'm opening a discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. There you go, Mr Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u244	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform on a resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. This resolution would seem to be a purely technical change. They are not a big problem with its records, which are the way in which the members of the new Sejm committee are to be elected. The problem is that this resolution adapts the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to the Act of 9 March 2017 on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate. If we look at this problem not in such a way that the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is purely technical, but in such that this amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sanctiones a law which, in our opinion, is unconstitutional, violates the fundamental rights of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, then this amendment of the Rules of Procedure is in this respect Unacceptable. The law, which I mentioned, violates the fundamental constitutional, moreover, adopted in all civilized countries a threefold division of power by allowing the commission to challenge final judgments of the court through an administrative decision; by preventing citizens of the Republic of Poland from appealing against the decision of that committee. If the PiS really wanted to solve the problems of reprivatization, today, instead of sanctioning the non-constitutional law through changes in the Sejm's rules, it would deal with the reprivatization law to finally end the shadow of Bierut over Warsaw. The Civic Platform will not apply its hand to the amendment of the rules which sanction the non-constitutional law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u245	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present my position on this resolution. This resolution is simply necessary, because there is a gap in the Rules of Procedure. In so far as there are cases of choice or appointment of other constitutional bodies or public bodies which act on the basis of ordinary laws, and the Sejm has the power to choose or appoint such bodies, I will remind the Council of National Media or the President of the Office for Electronic Communications, or other constitutional bodies such as the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, the President of the NIK, the Constitutional Tribunal, the Court of State, the National Council of Radiophony and Television, the Monetary Policy Council, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall determine the procedure for the appointment of these bodies. On the basis of the Law of 9 March on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, it is known that eight members of the committee are appointed. There's got to be a set-up here. This law shall enter into force on 15 May of this year and the aim shall be to provide the entities which have the power to notify. So there is a proposal that it will be the Marshal of the Sejm and at least 35 Members. It is also a matter of setting a time limit for the submission of candidates, the time limit for examining applications and the alembicus of proceedings in the event of an opinion by the competent committees. The Member can only support one of the candidates and the appointment of the Sejm as a committee would be by an absolute majority. As to whether this law is constitutional or non-constitutional, as my previous speaker said here - as we know, it can only decide the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. For the time being, there is no such decision and there is a presumption of constitutionality. On behalf of the club, I ask the High House to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u247	Thank you, sir. Since the Civic Platform club still has time left, Mr Sławomir Nitras will fill this time on behalf of the club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Discussion of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is a good opportunity to remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm apply to all of us, including your marshal. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club 6 months ago, exactly 6 months ago, requested information and a debate on the helicopter invitation to tender. We learn new things, there are new revelations, and there was no information. The rules of procedure require, marshal, that such a debate be held, at the request of the club, within four months. It's gone, like I said today, 6. Mr. Marshal, the rules also apply. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal. Remember that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u249	Thank you for reminding me. And at the moment, Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15 will speak. [[Voice from the room: Tom!]] Aren't you going to take the floor? [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]] You're gonna take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u250	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present the conclusions of the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Parliamentary and the Immunity Affairs Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, together with the Modern Club, we have shared our doubts with the members of the committee, because this regulation, which I believe will be adopted at today's meeting, closes the way for three clubs to submit candidates to five currently in Parliament. Only the Law and Justice Club and the Civic Platform Club are able to make a proper proposal to apply for a member of the so-called "Citizen Platform." the verification committee. This regulation closes the possibility that our Kukiz club15, because it has 33 Members, a modern club or a club of the Polish People's Party, can apply for this. This is also contrary to your declaration - when we dealt with this law, the representatives of the Ministry of Justice informed that representatives of all political groups would have the opportunity to submit their applications and participate in the so-called. the verification committee. There have even been proposals that the political non-debate environments will be able to do so. The adoption of this regulation, the indistinguishability of our proposals to reduce this threshold from 35 to 15, closes the possibility of applying for our clubs in a purely mathematical sense. Therefore, our club will vote against this amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u251	Thank you, sir. Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Posel Club, will speak at the moment. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: I didn't volunteer.]] You didn't volunteer? I have a clear record of the Member here. But if you have not volunteered, we move on to speaking on behalf of the next club. Piotr Zgorzelski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, prints No 1482 and 1492. Today's amendment to the Rules of Procedure states that the Marshal of the Sejm or a group of 35 Members will be able to submit candidates to the committee, who will then be appointed by the High Sejm. First of all, Mr Marshal, I propose an amendment to change the number of Members who can report candidates to the Marshal of the Sejm. I propose that this be a group of 15 Members, [[Applause]] as many as a parliamentary club can form, as many as have a legislative initiative. Of course, the best solution would be a situation where the Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting parliamentary clubs, would propose a consensus solution. What stands in the way, Mr. Marshal, of holding a joint meeting of the Marshal of the Sejm with the party leaders devoted only to the subject matter of the verification commission, is it, after all, that your marshal's capacity for consensus is universally known? Our parliamentary club, when voting on the whole of the bill, abstained from voting, seeing the great risk and danger in the work of this committee. This bill is flawed. At least in several places it is absolutely possible to think that it violates the Polish legal system. Few of this, in the opinion of many experts, is incompatible with the Polish constitution. It is interesting that the committee is to resolve all matters related to Warsaw reprivatization. That's about $4,000. complicated cases. He's gonna court himself, the D.A.'s office, and the committee is gonna explain everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u253	Thank you, sir. There's an amendment tabled. We're about to address her. Except that I am informing the High House that, according to the rules of procedure, in a sense, the owner of the draft resolution is the rule committee. Applicants shall have the right to withdraw until the end of the second reading. But if I had this information before, I'd be happy to help you find a common solution. I didn't have that kind of information. And at the moment, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Parliamentary Club, is asking for the floor. There you go. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: How many minutes do I have?]] Three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members and Members, I'll basically repeat what I said at the committee meeting yesterday. The Modern Club believes that the verification committee is unconstitutional. The opinion of the Modern Club on this topic has not changed at all. The second thing that has come is the fact that you want only the representatives of two clubs: PO and PiS to sit on this committee. Why are you doing this? You are only doing this because it is very important for both you and the PO that the duopol, which has existed in Poland since 1989, will always exist. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'll pay attention to the two things I said yesterday. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] at a committee meeting. We have made two amendments that you have ignored. First of all, we talked about the fact that you completely unnecessarily added another point in the Rules of Procedure by extending these regulations. If you wanted to do anything, you could have done it in the Rules of Procedure. 26 and Article 26 29 names the organs that were missing. And the second point is precisely the number of Members. The moment you talk about 35 Members, you eliminate those clubs that 35 Members don't have, i.e. modern clubs, Kukiz, 15 or PSL. In conclusion, this confirms that the state is very handy for Poland's duopol. On the other hand, we will each time resemble not only here, in the Seym, but also everywhere where we can, that we do not agree to duopol in Polish politics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u255	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the second reading an amendment to the draft resolution was tabled, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on the draft after the text of the amendment has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen, which is at the end of the block of votes. If I do not hear any objection, I will understand that there is an agreement of the High House. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the vote on the whole project... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Excuse me. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Science Degrees and Titles, and on degrees and titles in the field of art and certain other laws. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1472. The Commission also presents minority proposals on which we will vote first. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Law on Scientific Degrees and Titles and on Degrees and Arts of the applicant proposes that the Chairman of the Central Commission for Degrees and Titles appoint the Prime Minister from among the candidates submitted by the Central Commission. This proposal is accompanied by a request from the 2nd minority to delete Article. 5th bill. We will vote on these proposals together. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute. That's enough for you, isn't it? [[How much?]] One minute. [[One and a half. I can't do it in a minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In my first and second reading, I expressed my doubts about the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 laws. Let me remind you that the applicant proposes that, in accordance with this article, the Prime Minister elects the chairman of the Central Commission for Grades and Titles. To date, the members of the committee, several dozen representatives of the scientific community, have identified two candidates, from which the Prime Minister appointed the President. The explanatory memorandum itself states that the aim is to increase the Prime Minister's influence on the shape of the Central Committee on Scientific Degrees. I would like to ask which committee member is preparing this article. Tell me who this person is to be the chairman of this central committee, Prime Minister. Last year, elections were held for the central committee. The committee's work has been paralyzed for three months because the Prime Minister has not appointed a chairman. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question: Is this change proposed by you an expression of a lack of confidence in dozens of representatives of the scientific community? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u257	Thank you. Good. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1 and 2 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 204 voted against - 222, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Before voting on the whole of the bill, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The draft contains a good solution for the implementation doctorate and an unacceptable solution for the appointment of the chairman of the Central Commission for Grades and Titles, according to which the Prime Minister appoints a chairman from all the members of the committee, and not from two members appointed by the committee, as is currently the case. This solution weakens CK's position and implies a lack of trust in the state administration, including the Prime Minister, in the academic community. I have a question: What is the reason for this change? I would like to stress that an open letter to Prime Minister Gowin and Prime Minister Szydło has formulated over 1300 academics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For this reason, unfortunately, the Platform will vote against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u259	The question was raised by the Member in general. This question will be answered by the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr President, I would like to refer here to the Law on Higher Education and to the statute of the Polish Accreditation Commission. I would like to quote § 2 (2) Two of the statutes. The President of the Polish Accreditation Board and its Secretary shall appoint and dismiss the Minister responsible for higher education, hereinafter referred to as the Minister. By introducing this solution to the current amendment, we are really doing what is already included in the 2005 Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u261	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1472, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. There have been 13 abstentions in favour, 261 against - 165. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on scientific degrees and title and on grades and titles in the field of art and certain other laws. We return to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Postal Law Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1471. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1471, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 394 against - 35, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a bill amending the Postal Law Act. We return to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1421. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1421, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. I state that the Sejm unanimously passed the Act amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Act on the National Court Register. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1453. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1453, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 435, no one voted against, four Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the draft law amending the Fire Protection Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1448-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Fire Protection Act from print No 1412. At its 40th meeting on 20 April 2017, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 1448 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for the purpose of examining the proposals and amendments submitted at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 20 April, requests that the first two requests of the Civic Platform and the Modern Club to reject the whole draft law, which had not been accepted by the committee, be rejected. Three amendments were also tabled. Two amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party and one amendment was tabled by the Modern Posel Club. The Commission also requests that these amendments be rejected. The amendments were not accepted by a majority of the committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u263	There you go. As we have heard, the committee calls for the adoption of the proposal. In an additional report, the committee makes a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety, which I will put to the vote first and then to the amendments. We will first vote on the proposal to reject the project in its entirety. I would remind you that the adoption of the proposal will render the remaining proposals irrelevant. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. The questions have been raised by Members. Member Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We've filed a motion to reject this project because it's impossible to improve this bill. The aim of this amendment is to take money from the Association of Voluntary Guards of the Republic of Poland, which brings together 16 thousand. CSR units, and hand over the decision to spend this money to Minister Zieliński and Chief Suski. This is another installment of the struggle between these gentlemen and the Association of Voluntary Fire Guards, because last year the union was deprived of its influence on the spending of budget money, and now you are reaching for the money transferred by insurance companies. The real victim of this bill will be the fire protection system, which has worked well for 20 years, and today only because Minister Zieliński has more power, you are destroying the financial basis of this system. Formally, this project is prepared by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. So I would like to ask: Who has prepared this project? Any of your fellow Members? Did Minister Zieliński do it, or did the government do it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do any of you have the courage to come out here and confess to this project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u265	The question has been raised, so is the rapporteur... [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: There are still others.]] Mr. President, just a moment. Allow me, because I still have to give the floor to other Members who have asked questions. Member Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to address the question to the PiS Members who are the applicants for this bad project. Since many of you are members of voluntary fire services, many of you also sit on individual boards at different levels of the association. I wanted to ask you: Isn't it just human shame? Because with this bill, you are questioning everything that you yourself, as members of the voluntary fire department, have done over the past 20 years to ensure the safety of your fellow citizens, your friends who live in your neighborhood. This project is bad, it can't be fixed. This project brings more power into the hands of Minister Zieliński again. This project should be rejected. I appeal to you, all members of the PiS, especially those who are members of the TSOs: do not leave [[♪ The bell ♪]] In front of the line, do not create the law that is against your colleagues in the voluntary fire department. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u267	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u268	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We volunteer firefighters always try to be beautiful, as best we can, to fulfill this firefighter's call: God for glory, for people's benefit. This bill to amend the Fire Protection Act will not bring glory to God, nor will it benefit people. [[Applause]] And we volunteer firefighters feel like God's throwing stones at a blizzard. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This bill is definitely not a parliamentary project, and I have a lot of evidence for that. That is why my questions are addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Minister! Is it true? [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this project does not secure financial resources to support youth work by voluntary firefighters, to finance the medical training of voluntary firefighters or to uniform voluntary firefighters? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Janek Bury can pay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u269	Thank you. The first two Members have asked the applicant's representative, so I will ask Mr Czartoryski, who is the rapporteur of the committee at the same time and who represents the applicants. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! In the beginning, I would like to ask Mr Mark Wójcik not to mislead the High House that the money is being taken from the firefighters who volunteered and handed over to the Minister, because that is not true. [[Voices from the room: True! Right!]] The bill is very short and can be read. We legally guarantee that 50% funds from insurance companies will go directly to voluntary firefighters. [[Applause]] The Minister has no way of reducing this amount. By the way, I'd like to say that 50% so far, too. These measures were directed to voluntary firefighters. [[But it's the minister's call.]] The difference is that these funds today are directed directly from the insurance company's account to the account of the Chief Executive of the Fire Volunteers Association. You're beating on the alarm that this is now a disaster, as the State Fire Department will hand over these funds. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, neither voluntary firefighters will die... You know very well that the CSR, the board of directors, has factories, produces uniforms, manufactures equipment, stores, receives money from private companies, receives money from local governments. Ba, even has the statutory provisions provided for in Article. 32 Fire Protection Act, that it is for uniforms, for various equipment, that municipalities are obliged to transfer funds. These are additional funds that the State Fire Department will hand over. However, we believe that the State Fire Department has full knowledge of the real, legitimate need for fire protection throughout the country. [[Bullshit!]] It's all over the country. And, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation between TSOs and PSPs is good. It's not like you're suggesting there's going to be a cataclysm. In addition, if you and Mr Wójcik are talking about failure, and President Sosnowski even refers to God, that now Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice, has sent additional funds, over 500 million additional funds, under the Modernization Act to the TSOs. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And this year, too, the budget includes more resources for voluntary firefighters compared to what happened last year and already much more than what happened in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not demonize the situation in which the voluntary fire department applies to the State Fire Department - there is a general present - to finance specific equipment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u271	There you go. [[Corrigendum.]] Mr Marek Wójcik - as corrected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Mr. Chairman obviously hasn't read the bill. I'm asking you to read the bill, but you also listened to my statement again. You purposely destroy the union of voluntary firefighters, a union of 16,000. TSOs' units. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lies!]] And this union was deprived of budgetary resources last year by the decision of Minister Zieliński, and now by the decision of the Member State to which no one wants to admit it, it will be deprived of its influence on the spending of money from insurers. Today, it is not known how Minister Zieliński and Chief Suski will share this money. Mr Sosnowski rightly pointed out that, depending on the legislative phase, you said that either this money would be spent for one purpose or another. Today there is nothing to prevent Mr Zieliński from simply taking the commandant after the adoption of this bill. Suski made a deal, and he wrote down two tenders centrally, and he spent the money. Now this money is spent rationally. They're spent on... [[Voice from the room: Berczyński.]] ...the specific needs of the specific TSOs. And when you pass this bill, you take responsibility for the destruction of this system, a system that has worked well for 20 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u273	Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Deputy Minister of the Interior and Administration, asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Mr Sosnowski quoted Slovak. I think here it would be more appropriate to quote from Tuwim: The layers are growing the bollocks of monstrous. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Because in this discussion so much rubbish has been said, I think this must also be recalled. The words are lying, the words are unworthy... [[Stop insulting us.]] ...in a style that shouldn't be mentioned here. There were statements concerning association with partitions, there were quotations from the Holy Father. Really think about what you're doing. The truth is, 16 200 units of CSR [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This is not the central board of the TSO headed by Mr Waldemar Pawlak, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] 700,000. Volunteer mates are not chief executives headed by Mr. Waldemar Pawlak, PSL activist, [[Applause]] 16 200 CSR units... [[The state isn't a PiS.]] ...and 700,000. Brave, sacrificial firefighters' friends are not PSL. [[Applause]] For years, PSL has owned public money by a bunch of volunteer firefighters in Poland... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...and today he defends his positions, defends his ways with unworthy, lies. I don't know why the Platform gets involved in all this. This is their power, not yours. [[Applause]] [[There's gonna be a war.]] We are increasing the resources, as Mr Czartoryski said, for voluntary firefighters. [[We protect people from PiS always.]] While you were in charge, the PO-PSL coalition, you left in the draft budget for 2016, which we inherited, PLN 32.5 million for CSR outside the national rescue and fire protection system. We in your budget found... [[You'll spend that money on confetti.]] ... 3.5 million and we have increased this grant. [[Applause]] We've increased it in your draft budget. For 2017, we increased it by further amounts. This is today 124 million PLN for voluntary firefighters except what started to be directed from the modernisation program. This is PLN 501 million, as Mr Czartoryski said, under the modernisation programme for 4 years. We really care about the fire escape system, we care about volunteer firefighters, we support them, we finance them. They're getting support under this revised grant system that we changed last year, those individuals you haven't noticed over the years, which the main board hasn't noticed. He cared about them so much that they waited for years without success, and now we support them evenly, because we want to build a uniform, efficient fire protection system and a fire-fighting system in Poland. That's what we're responsible for, we're gonna take extra measures, we're gonna take care of it, and we're gonna do it. And will that be for someone's benefit? For the benefit of PSL probably not, but for the benefit of Poland certainly will. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[You didn't answer the question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u275	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed to the... President Kosiniak-Kamish with a formal request. But, sir, I understand that this is a formal proposal for... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Yes.]] There you go. [[Janek Bury.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u276	Yes, after these words, there must be a formal request for a break to give the Minister a chance to get acquainted with a fellow Member of the PiS club, Edward Siarka, who is the head of the voluntary fire department union in Małopolska. [[Applause]] [[That's right.]] In the same relationship you're destroying today. And the analogy to the invaders was not random, she is very accurate and very thoughtful - the one used by Mr Sosnowski - because the killers did not allow voluntary fire workers to join in a union... [[ZSL.]] ...and you're ruining the relationship today. [[And the ZSL did?]] Later in the Polish People's Republic... You return to the tradition of the Polish People's Republic, this is another recidivism of the Polish People's Republic. [[Voices from the room: ZSL.]] Say hello to your colleagues Wojciechowski and Kuzmiuk, who were in ZSL, and now they're in PiS. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Really, it's '81. Greetings. And I'm proud of what ZSL's done because he introduced pensions and agricultural pensions. [[At least it's honest.]] There you go. [[Applause]] And today we will defend them from you, from your temptations. [[ZSL.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u277	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u278	Ladies and gentlemen! We're gonna need this break...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u279	But, sir, this is not a formal proposal. [[Voices from the O.R.:]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u280	The motion is for a recess.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u281	Well, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u282	Your colleagues are disturbed, Mr. Marshal, and I must explain to them the basics of history in many matters. [[Applause]] [[You have to defend yourself.]] And this is some kind of educational mission, you have to carry it. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this break is needed for the Prime Minister to... Prime Minister, I would very much like to ask you to consider this bill. A community of volunteer firefighters is being destroyed. [[But where is it destroyed?]] After all, how many of you, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, are in the Association of Volunteer Fire Departments, serving there. [[Voice from the room: And we will continue.]] They are also from the Platform, with the Modern, with the movement of Kukiz.15, with the SLD - from each party, and most of them is partyless. This has worked well for many, many years, this is a community of 700,000. people who serve Poland well, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who care and are humble and decent people. [[Voice from the hall: And they will serve.]] Let's not destroy the community of voluntary firefighters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u283	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I, however, have made a statement by Mr Włodzimierz Kosiniak-Kamish... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Władysława.]] Władysława, I'm sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...I have to treat it as a padlock to go into a further series of polemics about what we're discussing right now. If the President had applied for a break for his club to think about it or for another purpose... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But here we have no problem with this bill, we must reject it.]] ...it would have been used, I would have accepted, but the request for a break for another club, I think it is nevertheless... [[It's a joke.]] ...the form of the lock. Of course, we're talking about a number in quotes here. And therefore, if you don't mind, I can't accept your application as a request for a break, a formal application. We therefore proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 206 voted against - 230, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the first amendment to Article. 39 (1) (a) 1 The Fire Protection Act is proposed by the applicant, among others. an indication of the objectives for which the funds referred to in the provision may be allocated, received by the General Board of the Association of Voluntary Fire Guards. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment... This bill can't really be fixed, but at least anything you could try to improve. In Amendment 1, we are trying to improve that the CSR boards can at least influence spending on non-large equipment, as has been said so far, that it will be more rational, only that they can finance uniforms and, above all, work with young people, which is extremely important, and of course training. It is difficult for me to understand the words of the Minister or of the Member of the applicant that it is the head commander of the PSP who knows best where and how to spend funds, e.g. to work with young people. After all, the regions of our country are different, and of course it would be best for this to happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the disposal of the district board of TSOs, because they know their needs best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u285	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u286	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If Minister Zieliński had some basic knowledge, he would know that Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak was elected president by firefighters. [[Applause]] Minister Zieliński was charming public opinion and firefighters yesterday and today that Polish People's Party, criticizing this law, defends its interests. I ask you, Minister, whose interests you defend Mr Edward Sulphur. After all, Mr Edward Sarka is a member of the PiS club and I am a member of the Polish People's Party club. At the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, together with Mr Siarka, we have, of course, proved how harmful this is the bill. [[He's had a worse day.]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] In a similar tone, they spoke. [[♪ The bell ♪]] other Members of different options. But I'm asking the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u287	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u288	...why you don't listen to people who have knowledge of the functioning of CSR, and you listen to the Chief of State Fire Department, who, on my question, is the medical training of volunteer firefighters part of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u289	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u290	...battle training, responds: it's not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u291	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u292	This is a disgrace to all of you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u293	Mr President, your question did not concern the first amendment. In whose interest does one Member take part in the matter? This does not concern this amendment. [[And we think it did.]] Mr President, there have been no questions for the rapporteur or the applicant, and I cannot give you the floor. [[For the first question.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Two hundred and twenty-nine Members voted against - 219, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3 of the Fire Protection Act propose, among other things, that the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Service inform immediately the Chief Executive of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards about the amount of funds referred to in paragraph 1. 1 of this article. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Questions are raised by Members. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, For 8 years, the Civic Platform and PSL government has increased resources for voluntary firefighters, for national units of the system three times. We tried to implement a modernization program. [[But it didn't work out.]] You've changed that. You have no confidence in the parliamentary fire team led by the Member of Law and Justice, Mr Chmielowiec. We've always been able to get along on the team. You say you have respect for firefighters who have protected and defended Poles for 90 years. Do you remember the year 2010 and the great flood? Do you remember how firefighters volunteered to help the people? It's like you're out of your mind today. State of that law [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're gonna disable the CSR units. Why are you doing this? Why would the Prime Minister allow this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u295	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u296	The Civic Platform, if it goes back to power, will change it because it respects...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u297	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u298	...volunteer firefighters. [[Applause]] [[Don't scare me.]] [[If.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! If you want this money to go to the volunteer fire department, you can vote in favour of the Modern Amendment, because it restores these rules. [[Applause]] so that further cooperation can be made possible. Yesterday, you asked Mr Sulphur specific questions. Today there is an algorithm based on which funds go to regions and powiats. Mr Łukasz Smółce, director of the political cabinet of Minister Adamczyk, who was at the same time the director of the office of the voivodship association of CSR before taking up this function. At the time, he was fine with it. This did not bother the Prime Minister, who for 8 years was a member of the Bureau of the District Board of Oświęcim CSR. She was happy to use that algorithm. Why, Prime Minister, if you are Prime Minister, do you mind? [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u301	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Law and... [[Where, God forbid.]] Polish People's Party, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u302	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This bill certainly destroys firefighter self-government, and it certainly kills the citizens' initiative. What's certain is that he's stripping volunteer firemen from their dignity. Why are you doing this? How can the members of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team raise their hand behind such a project? This is an unworthy volunteer firefighter. Pope Pole... [[Voices from the hall: Oh, dear!]] ...today Saint John Paul II, meeting firefighters in Drohiczyn, said: Fires of gas, the spirit never extinguishes. Today I firefighters ask from this place: Do not lose faith that there will come a time when firefighters will develop their self-government again, they will decide for themselves what equipment they need funding for, and they will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] enjoy really true respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u303	Thank you very much. Members have made very general questions, but I understand that these are questions to the authors of the bill... [[No, the government.]] ... who he represents here, acting on behalf of the applicants, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski. Would you like to... [[Minister.]] [[And the minister?]] ...to address these questions, why, do you remember, etc.? [[Game in the O.R.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! President Sosnowski speaks in an extremely expressive way here about stripping from dignity. I would like to say, and I think we are all aware of this, that firstly, thousands of associations in Poland, various associations: sports, cultural, educational, functioning in Poland in this way, and it has been for many, many years since the Third Republic was founded, that it has submitted applications and received funds. The voluntary fire department is and will be in this system. And it's not a mockery of dignity that a volunteer fire department will apply to the State Fire Department to receive funds. Ladies and gentlemen, using such words as this is a rip-off of dignity... So what? So all the other associations that actually didn't have the comfort that private companies automatically went into the head office account, they were devoid of dignity? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sosnowski, do not make this situation absurd. So, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the issue of this money at the request of the State Fire Department, increased, more money, I would also ask you to read the article, particularly the PSL. 32 Fire Protection Act, according to which the municipality is obliged to contribute to these cases, which you are asking about, among others. for uniforming. And this is a bill that was passed many years ago in the Seym for your cause. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u305	Please. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, once again, you have deprived me of my right...]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 203 votes against 226 and 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 2 The Law amending the applicant proposes to amend the transitional provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. [[Formal conclusion. Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] The questions are... Member, please don't disturb me... [[Formal conclusion. I'm not disturbing you.]] ...in the proceedings. Questions are raised by Members... [[I'm not disturbing you, sir.]] Mrs Krystyn Skowrońska, I should like to inform you that in a moment I will draw your attention to the fact that you are interfering with my deliberations. Member of Margaret Płępek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law can't go backwards, but in the PiS, everything can be done. You are changing the way the fire department is financed, but we need to identify the rules to be applied to the measures already planned for expenditure. The main management of the TSO had the right to plan and implement some of the funds. Failure to accept this amendment threatens that part of the expenditure incurred and planned will not be covered. Insurance is purchased much earlier, even a year, and in the case of many entities, fire insurance is mandatory. The level of income from insurance can therefore be quite precise. Do you realize that not accepting this amendment will be irresponsible and detrimental to voluntary firefighters? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What else are you planning on ruining? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u307	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u308	Mr. Marshal: Mirosław, Mirosław. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! This law provides for a 14-day vacathio legis. Indeed, it is necessary not to know at all the rules of the functioning of voluntary firefighters in order to introduce such a period, as reporting meetings at the TSOs ended generally in March. By introducing such a short period of time and receiving funding from TSOs, you are destroying the entire structure of voluntary firefighters. Minister Zieliński, it's not like a volunteer firefighter has any political colors. Volunteer firemen... [[They'll lose their votes in the country.]] ...work and work for the common good of all residents. They save property and health. On the other hand, of course, you want to take over this area of public, social life in favour of only the right party, which in your opinion is the PiS. You say you want to create a uniform fire extinguishing system. Imagine that CSR [[♪ The bell ♪]] currently performs 60% action. Without the TSO, there is no uniform emergency and fire-fighting system. Don't mess it up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u309	Thank you. Member Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to greet the High House very warmly on behalf of the participants of the voivodeship meeting of voluntary firefighters in Łódź, because I am coming straight from this convention. [[Applause]] I would also like to call first and foremost on the Members of the Law and Justice not to vote in favour of this harmful law. There, in Łódź, today is self-government. There, in Łódź, we talked about how much Law and Justice harm voluntary firefighters. [[Applause]] Tell me, in which voluntary firefighters are worse than the State Firefighter, that the State Firefighter must teach how to spend money on fire protection. Minister Zieliński, I want to thank you very much for what you said because you finally exposed your face. [[Applause]] You're talking about a political struggle with the poli volunteers... [[Political.]] ...with volunteer firefighters. Yeah, it's emotional because you want to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Smash up volunteer firefighters. This can't be right. I appeal to the conscience and reason of the Members of the Law and Justice...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u311	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u312	...don't vote for this harmful act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u313	Thank you, sir. Would the rapporteur like to respond?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u314	For the first question, Mr. Marshal, yes. The first question was indeed substantive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u315	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u316	I would like to make it very clear that these measures, which have been planned by the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards, are planned in such a way that the union plans to distribute money that has not yet entered the account. After the entry into force of the Act, after 14 days, the Minister will not have the right to retain the funds, because they are legally guaranteed and they will pass, only they will not pass directly into the account of the accounts of insurance companies, but will pass from the State Fire Department, nor will the gold be stopped. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u317	Minister Jarosław Zieliński has the floor. [[It's a formal matter. Formal conclusion.]] Madame, I again warn you not to disturb me. [[This isn't your...]] I'm warning you, I'm gonna have to take the procedure. [[Why can't you allow a formal application?]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Here you go, Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! This bill hurts, it hurts. It hurts to lose influence... [[Don't insult the MPs.]] It hurts to lose a monopoly, it hurts to lose a monopoly. [[Yes, sir.]] This is the only case I know, if you know another, please tell me when it is legally guaranteed to transfer funds to one specific association. [[It's a parliamentary project, isn't it?]] It's not in any other field. One association, the Association of Voluntary Fire Guards, or actually the General Board of this union, has under the law guaranteed an annual financial supply. This is not a democratic solution. This is not an acceptable solution in the state of law. [[And what was your offer to the landlords?]] That's one thing. Second... [[And the P.I.S.'s landlord's union is what?]] ...we hear voices like it's a solution that's particularly new. No. Let us recall: such a solution that the Chief of the State Fire Service led these measures to both the State Fire Service units and the volunteer fire department units between 1991 and 1997. It worked for six years, and then there wasn't a scream. We're back to that solution after 20 years. For 20 years, there's been something abnormal, we're back to normal, we're back to normal. Now answer the alleged unconstitutionality of this solution. You can't plan expenses if there's no money. If someone is planning their expenses without having the resources, without knowing about them, he is doing so on his own responsibility. So there's no such thing as something being picked up. This money had not yet entered the main management account, and therefore it was not possible to plan expenditure from these funds, because they were not known their size and they simply were not. As you planned, your problem, your problem. That wasn't allowed to happen. The measures that have entered into force or have yet to enter into force of the Act under the old regime will be at the disposal of the central board of TSOs. Those who will influence after the entry into force of the law will influence the path that it regulates now establishes this law. And that's it, there's no doubt, no problems. Does it hurt? Losing monopoly and influence hurts, I get it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u319	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the third amendment. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 206 voted against - 228, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, questions and formal proposals are submitted. We'll hear the formal application first. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My formal proposal concerns the proper conduct of the deliberations by your marshal, not the refusal of Members of the Republic of Poland to vote. I asked for a vote because I asked a question to the government. Why have you made it even more difficult for the State to access these funds in connection with the criticism of the rule of law and justice over the last year?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u321	Madam President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u322	My question was that the government should speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u323	Madame, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u324	Mr. Marshal, I ask you to allow me to speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u325	I'm reminding you again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u326	...because it's not Mr. Seym. This is the Sejm. The Republic of Poland. [[Neither is yours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u327	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that right now I must acknowledge that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u328	The Civic Platform will change that once it's back in power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u329	This is not a formal conclusion. You have previously made a request for correction, but your name has not been mentioned in the rapporteur's statement... [[Voice from the room: It doesn't have to be.]] ...so you didn't deserve to be corrected. May I remind you that the corrigendum may be reported misunderstood or... [[Yeah, there doesn't have to be a name.]] ...unclearly quoted statement by the speaker. So the speaker must be mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, by name. [[Game in the O.R.]] The question is asked by Mr Lidia... Mr Nitras, do not shout. [[I'm listening, Marshal.]] Don't yell. [[I'm just defending the rules, Marshal.]] Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! If anyone had any doubts on the purpose of introducing this project, it was Minister Zieliński who today clearly resolved these doubts. It's a political money heist. It's just that. [[Applause]] Minister, this change doesn't hurt us, it hurts almost a million volunteers in our country, and it will hurt you when they all find out what you've actually done with this bill. [[Before Firefighter's Day.]] And it's as a fireman's day gift. Ladies and gentlemen! I've been a volunteer firefighter for 15 years. There's no one in my unit with party membership. On the municipal board - I do not belong to the party - there is one member of the party. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Oh...]] What's that? PiS, ladies and gentlemen. Not to mention the voivodship board. So don't really say there's a PSL monopoly there. In general, every firefighter has the right... [[Platforms.]] There's a PiS monopoly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you guys are kicking the shit out of your people in the field today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u331	Thank you. [[We're giving you the power.]] Quiet, please. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the corrigendum. There are many organisations that are subsidised from the budget and are guaranteed to do so. It is better not to mention their names, because Minister Zieliński is about to get to them and take them, just like the OSP. [[Applause]] That's the first line. Second line. You often rely on the principle of subsidiarity present in the Constitution of Poland, which is present in the social teaching of the Church. And this rule is once again broken in this bill. You take away the competences that may be delegated to self-government organisations that have the right to self-determination. You don't want that self-determination and you don't want self-government in any form. Why are you taking money to raise young people, to the youth fire teams? Why are you taking money for medical rescue training? Why do you take the money for the gala uniforms in which the firemen were standing not so long ago at the Lord's grave? This is [[♪ The bell ♪]] moving away from the subsidiarity principle. This is our biggest charge. To be a firefighter, you have to be brave. To go to a fire, you have to be brave.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u333	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u334	And I know that today courage is required from the Members of the PiS. I'm asking for that courage too.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u335	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u336	...who are real firemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u337	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u338	Vote against this bill. She's destroying self-government Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u339	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u340	...independent, and there is no freedom without self-government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u341	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister Zieliński, you've been using such a beautiful quote from Tuwim for a month. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Since yesterday.]] I must say that I am convinced that every time the Minister uses it, Tuwim turns over in his grave, [[Applause]] Seeing what horrible things you're using this light man's quote for, because with layers, you're growing monstrous bullshit just when you walk in here and tell bullshit about what you want to do to the firefighters. [[Applause]] Meanwhile, the only purpose of this bill is to make money, to make public money for voluntary firefighters. I must say that I am very sorry, and I am surprised that the Members of the PiS, who belong to the voluntary fire department and who perform these honorable functions, were elected by their fellow Members, trusted them, signed up to this terrible bill. Ladies and gentlemen! Someone here once promised that after winning the election, it would be changed. We won't wait. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the president signs this bad bill, I guarantee you that the next day the Members' Club The modern will submit a new bill that will restore what has so far...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u343	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u344	...it worked out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u345	Mr Richard Bartosik, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. President, I think we need to get back to basics and explain to ourselves what a voluntary fire brigade is. Volunteer firefighters are voluntary and free of charge. You'll have to understand that, won't you? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'm a volunteer firefighter, I work in a county volunteer firefighter's union, and I want to continue to work there, but socially. I don't need money for that. [[Applause]] Yes, I signed the bill because I believe that this way the funds will be divided rationally and better. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[You gonna buy yourself a fire car?]] And you, ladies and gentlemen, follow the principle that the best social work is for money, because respect in people and something in your pocket will remain. [[What about the equipment?]] I would like to ask the Minister: Is it true that the association of voluntary firefighters on purchase [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cars per unit were charged a margin of 10 and 12 thousand. Zł for one application? Is it true that such things have happened? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u347	Thank you, sir. Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! What's a fire department? What is a voluntary fire department? Firefighters are mostly people. As a young parliamentarian, I note, listening to all debates, that there are many topics, political triumphs, people who will support Law and Justice, Platform, PSL or any of the other clubs. These are mostly people, which is why I'm surprised that you haven't voted on the allowance bill for volunteer firefighters in this parliament for so many years. [[Applause]] For this hard service, for sacrifice, for putting your life at risk. Everyone's talking about it beautifully, everyone's putting together projects, but why is the Kukiz15 project in the seym freezer since October? [[Applause]] Marshal, how long has it been? How long will it take? They're talking about the money that's supposed to go to the firefighters. Don't worry. Firefighters will also support good Members of Law and Justice, and they will support good parliamentarians of Poland as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] People's Party. The point is to appreciate these people so that they can feel your support, because they don't see who comes to them, and I will applaud them and shake hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u349	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u350	They themselves will save you when you are...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u351	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u352	...to need them most. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u353	Thank you very much. At the same time, I inform the High House that at the moment many representatives of the senior club, the municipality of Liszki, the district of Krakowski are listening to the proceedings. [[Applause]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I would still like to speak.]] The Minister would like to speak. Here you go, Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u354	One more thread is worth recalling. In this discussion there is an attempt to overbid the good attitude towards volunteers firefighters on the part of the opposition. You can't outbid that because you're fake. You're totally fake. [[More respect for Members.]] We're the ones who are increasing the funding for the TSOs. [[Applause]] You didn't do it. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We're the ones who've been increasing it since we took responsibility for the state. True Relation to Volunteer Firefighters you can see in our concern just for financial support for this system, for CSR units and for firefighters. They see it, and they appreciate it. [[They'll thank you.]] Therefore, your note is fundamentally false - the one about the bidding, who is better for the firefighters. [[Respect for Members.]] We really appreciate volunteer firefighters. This is the second lung of the fire escape and fire protection system. [[That's why we're gonna put them on a belt, a cash belt.]] But we care about them really, and you verbally and falsely. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u355	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1448 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 227 voted against - 207, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Fire Protection Act. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on claims for damages caused by the infringement of competition law. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1489. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1489 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 433, no one voted against, one Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law on claims for damages caused by a breach of competition law. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the Rural Development Committee's report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law contained in print report No 1464. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1464, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 265, against - 170, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1444. The Commission is also proposing to minorities to reject the draft law on which we will vote first. The question is raised by Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! In order to pacify the Museum of World War II and put its own governor at the head of it, the Minister of Culture set up a completely fictitious new, separate, competitive museum institution. This time during the operation, which consists in pacifying the National Audiovisual Institute and putting its own governor at the head of it, the reverse method was used. This time the institution is being liquidated and the High Chamber is about to liquidate the National Film Library. I do not know why such a reluctance to own names with a national adjective on the part of the PiS, but it is none of my business. I have a question for the Minister whether he knows the open letter of the Programme Council at the National Audiovisual Institute, which was sent to him, signed, among others. by the chairman of this council, Ms Agnieszka Holland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If he doesn't, I'll just let him read one sentence. [[Voices from the O.R.: Time! Time!]] We believe that the planned merger will reduce the potential of NInA and the National Film Library...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u357	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u358	...and will impede public access to the resources of both institutions. Hence our motion to reject this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u359	Thank you. Would you like to see the Minister? Minister, Deputy Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u360	Dear Marshal, Honourable Members and Messengers! I think that in your question, something characteristic of the Civic Platform politicians, which we have seen for a long time... [[More respect.]] ...the ethic of suspicion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: This is about you too.]] Well, I think that every director of a serious cultural institution, such as: The Museum of the Second World War should be happy because it still receives responsibility for so important for Polish memory, for the world's memory as well, the task of building an outdoor museum of Westerplatte. We don't understand why there's been an unnecessary political dispute over this for a year. [[That's the problem. You don't understand.]] ...and that this matter was politicized by the local authorities of the Civic Platform in Gdansk and the former director of the World War II Museum, which should ambitiously and joyfully accept the new task of building the Westerplatte Museum and resisted it. Also in this case, which we are now investigating, the merger of two important cultural institutions: the National Film Library and the National Audiovisual Institute, is a plan to create a stronger cultural institution, which will work on the principle of synergy between two already experienced institutions. The National Film Library has been counting for almost 60 years and has a powerful collection covering the achievements of Polish cinematography, while the National Audiovisual Institute is a facility primarily rich in technologies that can help to consolidate cinematography collections. In the environment of people who know about it, especially the film community, this plan is treated kindly. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: I have read it.]] So, please take into account that the combination of these two institutions will result in... [[Take--take--take-- take-- take-- ……]] ...that the resources of Polish cinematography will be better protected, and as for the name, if you are concerned that we are abandoning the very beautiful concept of the nation, the national concepts, I would like to inform you that the new institution will be called the National Film Library - the Audiovisual Institute. Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Ho, ho, ho.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u361	We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 168 votes against - 264, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! You guys are doing the ethic of embezzlement. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And that's the situation. It's not really acceptable. After embezzling the excellent Museum of World War II and taking it away from Professor Machcewicz, who did something outstanding, now there is an assassination on the work of Michał Merczyński. The main reason is to remove him from power and direct him from this excellent institution. He created it from scratch. I do not understand why you are so consistently and so unambiguously politicizing all cultural institutions. It was with the Adam Mickiewicz Institute, it was with the Book Institute. It is against public interest, but above all it is against Polish culture. I do not have my permission to do so and I wonder why you are so ruthlessly and consistently trying to lead you to finally expropriate everything that relates to Polish culture. Polish culture is not the culture of the PiS state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u363	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1444 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 259 voted against - 173, 5 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Cinema and some other laws. We would like to refer to item 10 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, and in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission shall request the adoption of a draft law in the form of a print submission No 1407. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 1407, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 436 voted in favour, no one voted against, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm passed a law on the termination of the European Convention on Violence and Excesses of spectators during sports events, and in particular football matches, drawn up in Strasbourg on 19 August 1985. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016, signed by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of the Republic of Poland on 29 November 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the bill to be passed. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1470 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously adopted the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and handling during football and other sporting events, drawn up in Strasbourg on 4 May 2016. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government's draft law on combating doping in sport. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1474. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1474, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law on combating doping in sport. We are returning to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy and Family Committee on the Government draft law on amending the Law on Social Insurance Money Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1422-A. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Social Policy and Family Committee on printing 1422-A on the government draft law amending the Law on Social Insurance Money Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity. Three amendments were tabled during the second reading. At today's meeting, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy unanimously approved the amendments. The amendments concern a transitional period due to the extension of the date of entry into force of the Act. At the same time, the committee calls for a vote on these three amendments together. The Commission asks the High House to adopt the law together with the amendments adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u365	Thank you, Member. We will vote first on the amendments tabled just now. In the second amendment to the article. 2 of the draft law amending applicants propose an extension of the transitional period of the existing provisions by 6 months. Amendments 1 to the title of the Act and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 428 voted in favour, no one voted against, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1422, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 417, against - 3, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and the Act on amending the Law on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity and certain other laws. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to refer the draft law to the joint committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law at first reading. If the motion for rejection is rejected, we will decide on the referral of this proposal to the committee. The questions are raised by Members. Member of Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your foreign policy is a band of gafs, mistakes, miscalculations, and bad emotions. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] And now you want to lose your eyes and ears to all of this, first paralyzing Polish diplomacy, and then doing a cleansing in it. Because one thing is clear: it's not about any agents, because somehow your agents, but these loyal agents, they don't bother you. [[Berczyński.]] The point is to kick professionals out of their jobs and hire a lot of people who will only be faithful to you. Just remember how long it took you to expel Misiewicz, how long you will have to organize verification committees, how long will Suski and Brudziński spend in them to fix this... [[We can do this.]] ...what you're going to do right now. It's just that it's not funny, because at a time when the fate of the European Union is decided, you are deprived of the instruments to conduct an effective foreign policy, while insulting the patriots and true professionals who brought us into the European Union, to NATO [[♪ The bell ♪]] and who, unlike you, care about the interests of the Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u367	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister Witold Waszczykowski! Do you really want to make changes in foreign service? The master who, within a year and a half of his office, led Polish diplomacy, efficient diplomacy... [[Good diplomacy?]] ...which introduced Poland to the European Union and NATO, to such a state that diplomacy is unable to carry out any project? From the big ones - because that's what you could call your discreditation at the last European Council meeting when you showed that you led our diplomacy to such a state that you were unable to read with understanding the treaty provisions, not to mention the basic stupidity you showed up at the time. But under your leadership, our diplomacy is not able to carry out even small projects, because how else can we say that our diplomacy is unable to authorize your intelligence so that you do not compromise yourself in the international arena. That's what you've done with diplomacy. [[Talk to Rysiek.]] Do you want to make changes in Polish foreign policy? I wouldn't advise that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u369	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister! But I'm addressing the Minister. It can't be treated as a good bill that throws over 3,000. people from work without giving a reason, with a violation of all legal principles, without the possibility of cancellation, without the possibility of any control. This legal instrument, which you are using, is used for emergency situations. What's so special about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that you have to reach for this instrument? [[It's not what, it's who.]] We're about to become a permanent member of the Security Council. How? We're gonna do our jobs? I already asked from that bleacher what we wanted to be there for. No one told us why we wanted to be there, but I can guess. On the other hand, we will not be able to do this - because I hope that the Minister has a purpose for this - to do it without staff. And in the next six to eight months, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be frozen. There's nothing to be done, and there's nothing to be done. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[There was nothing you could do for 20 years.]] This is a big mistake. This bill is wrong. My question is why she was introduced. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u371	Thank you. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u372	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for this very good bill, because this is a law that provides an opportunity for a breakthrough in diplomatic service so that this service actually serves the Polish national interest. [[Applause]] [[Begin with Wolfgang.]] After all, we know that many of the people working to this day in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are people associated with the services of the Polish People's Republic. [[Then throw them out.]] Tell me openly, you're defending this deal. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Where's Wolfgang?]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't insult Comrade Peterovich.]] After all, one might ask, " Is it your intention not to fire people? ' [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In 2012, you fired 300 workers, just not the ones you needed. [[Voices from the auditorium: Where is Wolfgang?]] Or are you talking about competence? [[Wolfgang.]] Not really. After all, Minister Sikorski hired Maya Rostovska, a twenty-three-year-old, extremely competent only because she was the daughter of his colleague. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Misiewicz!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u373	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u374	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This question was originally addressed to the Foreign Minister, but I think that Mr Głębocki should also be addressed. Is this bill necessary... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...to remove a Polish special forces agent named TW Wolfgang, the name Przyłębski, from the role of ambassador of Poland, the Republic of Poland in Berlin? You can do it without this bill, do it as soon as possible. Don't talk about protecting agents through the old arrangement, look at your agents and your inefficiency in clearing diplomacy from secret co-workers of Polish special forces. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What about Kloss?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u375	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1385, will want to carry a hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 184 voted against - 238 and 9 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We will now proceed with the decision to refer the bill to the committee. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is that the draft be addressed only to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for consideration. In the discussion, a request was made to refer this draft law to the joint committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm will refer the draft law to the joint committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission. Members shall ask questions before voting. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The justification for this law - what Mr Głębocki said - is decommunization and dezubekisation. Ladies and gentlemen, don't joke. One administrative decision of the Director-General is enough to get rid of the 200 people you write about in the explanatory memorandum. So that's not what this is about, it's about art. 7 in this law, which terminates contracts with all foreign servants - with all employees. So this is a purgatory, and this is a purgatory in a purely Bolshevik sense. What's more, it's a purge carried out by a hypocrite, because you hired Wolfgang and you hired Grey. [[You're repeating yourself, man.]] So don't tell me that this is a bill that's supposed to be a dezubecisation, it's just a purge, a purge of hypocrites. And I never thought I'd say this in my life, but, Minister, even a very weak minister of the weak government, the Kaczynski government, Lepper and Giertych, because that was the government, Minister Fotyga had a better policy than you. I'm afraid so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u377	The question is asked by Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Law and Justice. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! I'd like to ask you a question I've been asking since yesterday. I can't get any answers, so I hope we have a chance to hear it today. Is it true that this law will cover 80% people who speak Russian as their first language? That's one thing. [[Wolfgang!]] Secondly, is it true that recently, after a change in one of the largest diplomatic offices, only the cleaning lady, she was not a secret co-worker? And as for your professionals, because you accuse us of lack of professionalism, tell us what your Sikorski diplomacy eagle is doing now, because I don't think it's doing the Americans any more. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u379	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to refer the draft law contained in print No 1385 to the Committee on Foreign Affairs alone, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 150, against 273, with 13 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft law to the joint committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the act on tax on goods and services. The proposal to reject the draft law at first reading was withdrawn in the discussion. [[Applause]] I propose that the Sejm refer this draft law to the Public Finance Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law on the restitution of national cultural goods. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1487. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1487 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 424 voted against - 8 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the restitution of national cultural goods. We are returning to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the law on the education information system and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print No 1483. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1483, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Act on the Educational Information System and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (Print No 1504). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this proposal? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1504, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 412, 1 against, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. We would like to return to the discussion of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament. We proceed to the third reading. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided to vote on this proposal after the text of the amendment has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. The amendment was sent to the ladies and gentlemen for prints No 1482 and No 1492. In the amendment to the inserted article. Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 applicants shall propose that proposals for the appointment or cancellation of the members of the committees referred to in that provision be made by the Marshal of the Sejm or at least 15 Members. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 412 Members voted against - 5 and 3 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Applause]] [[All you have to do is ask.]] We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 1492, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 273 votes against - 139, 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1505). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on these proposals? I can't see, I can't hear, no one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1505, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. The vote was 384 against - 1 and 12 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 40th session of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of you would like to speak, please do so. If no one comes forward, I think the list is closed. Mr Simon Giżyński, Mr Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm resigning. Thank you.]] Mr Giżyński resigns. At the moment, Mr Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]] Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You don't have an MP? In that case, please, Mr Norbert Obricki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u380	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The challenges to cyber security and information space are increasingly becoming second, after international terrorism, a threat to security in many European countries. This also reflects trends in NATO. The Cyberspace was recognised in the Alliance as a sphere of operational activities at the Warsaw Summit in July 2016. Poland should pay particular attention to the development of security in the area in the context of the events in Ukraine and the infamous experiences of the Baltic States, in which civil and military ICT networks have already been paralyzed. I would like to call on the Prime Minister and the Minister for National Defence to expand and focus in one strong centre of IT units, cyber security, military recognition and geoinformation, and to conduct psychological activities at the operational and tactical level of other NATO countries. Poland, in a time of war, hybrid threats, cyber attacks on sensitive state infrastructure or attempts to influence democratic processes, as in the United States, should develop its own, not only defensive, but also offensive, cybernetic capabilities. We should already create the conditions for acquiring new IT specialists, creating an offer that is more favourable than the market, e.g. supporting new directions dedicated to this purpose, cyber studies, at military universities. For this purpose, we can attract reserve soldiers and the environment not yet connected with the Polish army. We must begin this process now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u381	Thank you, sir. And I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to speak. There's no envoy? In that case, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u382	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the beginning of the year, there has been a large cutting of trees throughout Poland due to the adoption by Members of Law and Justice of a very liberal law allowing unlimited cutting of trees. Every day from the date of entry into force of these regulations we witness the destruction of hundreds of trees throughout Poland. Under the influence of critical votes, an amendment to the Environmental Protection Act was adopted at the previous session of the Sejm. The new rules assume that the owner of the land on which the tree stands will have to report this fact to the municipality's office prior to the planned tree cutting. The Authority will be required to verify that the cut-off is in conformity with environmental regulations planned by the owner. The amendment of this law assumes that the Minister for the Environment must issue a regulation within 6 months in which he will clarify the rules on the permission to cut down trees. I wonder when Minister Szyszko will finally decide to issue this regulation. In this case, it's every day that counts. By then, many valuable trees will again be victims of the Law adopted by the PiS in December 2016. Looking at the scale of the clipping of trees that took place in Poland and at the very slow pace of PiS making changes to existing regulations, I fear that someone had a very big interest in adopting these harmful regulations. Who, the PiS state, do you support at the expense of our trees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u383	Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a good day for the Polish Sejm. The day on which the resolution glorifying Tadeusz Mazowiecki was adopted. It is a good thing that the opposition I raised on behalf of the National Movement blocked the adoption of this resolution by acclamation, but it was wrong that so many Members, practically the whole Platform, Modern, PSL, the majority of members of the Law and Justice with leadership or some of Kukiz's Members, voted in favour of a resolution that brings with them a historical lie, not really historical. It was wrong that the biography of Tadeusz Mazowiecki contained in this resolution is simply incomplete, censored, false. Recall: the first 10 years of Mazowiecki's public activity during Stalin's terror was the time when he was involved in the publicistic fight against the anti-communist underground. He wrote, among others. in 1952 about guerrillas who fought against communist totalitarianism, that they are allies - a quote - yesterday's attackers from Dachau, Oświęcim, Mauthausen. In justifying and justifying Stalin's terror, Mazowiecki claimed among others.: It would be some ahistoric sentimental whining not to see that every great historical transformation involves sacrifices in people as well. Every social revolution opposes those who defend the order of the past, and those who fight for the new one, against them mercilessly. Her rights are tough. He wrote it in the blackest night of Stalin's terror. Tadeusz Mazowiecki wrote about the legal government of the Republic of Poland in exile, among others. as about - I quote - an agental, revengeful Polish London, consisting - again a quote - from the condotiers of Polish retrogression. In his publication in 1953, he became involved in the chase and strongly stigmatized the Stalinist terror condemned in the demonstration process by the bpa Kielce Czesław Kaczmark. It was wrong that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland glorifies such a person by a large majority. The figure, which is not the first non-communist Prime Minister of Poland after 1945, is only a figure which was the first post-communist Prime Minister of the government after 1945. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u385	You're welcome. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u386	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The building of the Seym in which we are located is a more than a hundred years old building. Its construction began in 1914, it was finished in free Poland, during the Second War it was destroyed. This building, the whole complex of seym buildings, is under conservation supervision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since December Ub. The column room acquired a new element, i.e. such a door with a cleaning linking the entrance to the first floor. It seems that the building of this element took place without consultation, the consent of the monument conservator, and if so, it should be removed as soon as possible, because we know that in Poland the so-called. Makeshifters have the longest life. This makeshift is extremely ugly and inappropriate, though covered with a veil. I'm using this moment, this moment of statements, to remove this ugliness as soon as possible. In addition, it certainly appeared here without the consent of the relevant institutions or persons, and I consider it to be such a conservator. Let's respect our story. This building was rebuilt because it was destroyed during the war, but in the condition it had previously been planned. These plans certainly have not been included and need not be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-04-21-sejm-40-2.u387	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 40th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 41st session of the Sejm, convened on 10, 11 and 12 May 2017, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 15 min 30]]
