ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Schreiber, Mr Milewski, Mr Duszek and Mr Tulayev's New Year's Eve to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Daniel Milewski. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Łukasz Schreiber and Sylvester Tulaev. High Seym! On 10 July this year. Jan Majewski - Polish Catholic clergyman, Member of the First Sejm, died. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - First reading of the government draft law on State Food Safety Inspection (Print No 1685), - First reading of the government draft law Rules introducing the Law on State Food Safety Inspection (Print No 1686), - First reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health (Print No 1676). The Council of Ministers submitted information on the situation of older people in Poland for 2015, contained in print no. 1102. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including consideration of this information. The President of the Republic of Poland has submitted draft laws: - amending the Code of Offences Act, - to amend the Labour Code Act and certain other laws. The designs are 1652 and 1653 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the agenda items added. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Formal requests have been made by the Members. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I'm asking your marshal for a recess. The Modern Club has requested that Minister Macierewicz provide information on the unexplained contacts of Deputy Minister Bartosz Kownacki with persons suspected of espionage for Russia. In view of the very worrying reports of the press, not only Polish but also foreign, and the information contained in the book Macierewicz and his mysteries, we believe that the Prime Minister should not delay and should ask Mr Kaczyński whether he can revoke Minister Macierewicz and Minister Kownacki from their duties. In such circumstances, how can we rely on the trust of our allies in NATO when Minister Macierewicz has been making many decisions for a long time, after which champagne is opened in the Kremlin and his closest associate has suspicious contacts with people who openly represent Russia's interests? We can say one thing: in the State of PiS and under the authority of the Ministry of National Defence of Minister Macierewicz Poles cannot feel safe. [[Applause]] [[Can we argue against that, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u3	Thank you. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Sign up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the appalling information about Russian ties to the management of the Ministry of National Defence, I submit a formal request to postpone the sitting of the Sejm until the Prime Minister of the Polish Government has explained to us why Mr Bartosz Kownacki is still sitting in government benches, who had direct contacts during election observation in Russia with Mr Mateusz Piskorski, who was arrested in 2016 by the Internal Security Agency for cooperation with Russian civil intelligence. How does it look like you're sitting in government and you're in custody? [[Applause]] Mr Bartosz Kownacki is responsible for the key areas of our country's security, and such a function cannot be burdened with the smallest doubts. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, today we are asking for information from the government to explain the essence of so many ties with Russia of the people of Minister Antoni Macierewicz and himself. This is no longer a daily policy that can be pursued. This is a matter of national security. The Polish Prime Minister is responsible for the issue of national security. Where is the Polish Prime Minister today? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Where's the Chief of the Armed Forces... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...when the Minister of National Defence has proven links with Russia, when the Deputy Minister of National Defence goes on election observation and deals with agents who are in Polish custody? This is an unbelievable scandal. Is this all a coincidence? Can we really believe this? Mr. Antoni Macierewicz, no one believes in the 47th coincidence today. All the leads lead to you and lead to Russia. So the question is, is this all a coincidence? Sooner or later, Mr. Antoni Macierewicz will appear before the committee of inquiry on this matter. He once destroyed the idea of vetting in Poland, destroyed military intelligence, and now destroys the Polish army. Coincidence? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, with the opposite motion...]] [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u5	I would like to inform you that this subject was the subject of a meeting between the Bureau and the Senior Convention. The Rules of Procedure state that such requests, requests for inclusion on the agenda, the Marshal of the Sejm has time to examine for up to 4 months. So I would ask very much the representatives of the Convention and the Bureau to inform Members not to submit such proposals here at the moment. [[Why wait at all?]] Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! On the basis of the article. 184 requesting a recess, requesting a formal recess. Today, PiS suddenly decided to introduce two laws to the session of the Sejm that subject Polish courts to politicians, the control of politicians of PiS. It is about the Act on Stubbornness of the National Judicial Council and the Act on the Removal of Presidents of the Courts. You can say, you get the impression that Trump's visit is over and the suspension of PiS weapons in the war with independent judiciary is over. Everyone knows that after the liquidation of independent courts of justice, he will actually decide to have access to the President's ear. And that's what more examples of the last two years show. By strictly taking over other institutions, the PiS uses them in the interests of the parties and its politicians. After the stubbornness of the judiciary, the functioning of Polish citizens and businesses will increasingly resemble such diving in cloudy water. And of course, many of you will like it. But judgments will no longer be given on the basis and within the limits of the law, but will be given on the basis of the political influence of the various parties. They will be able to decide on these judgments better knowledge of whether or not with another PiS politician. And the power of argument will no longer matter, but the power of knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have any courage, put down your work on these laws by September so that citizens can look carefully at how you step by step at destroying the independence of the justice system, gaining the tools to create a caste out of law, a caste of PiS politicians. [[Applause]] [[There's a caste. The caste is here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u7	Thank you. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has the floor. There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: He's coming.]] There you go. [[Voice from the room: Faster, faster.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! [[Mr. Marshal, dear.]] High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) I move that the sitting be adjourned. [[But it builds tension.]] [[Voice from the room: We haven't started yet.]] Ladies and gentlemen! July 30th Ub. During the meeting of President Andrzej Duda at the Warsaw Uprising Museum, the President of the World Union of National Army Soldiers Prof. Leszek Żukowski said: If some steps are not taken soon in the form of a law that ensures that the insurgents have a safe old age, then it may be possible that heroes will die in oblivion, figuratively speaking, somewhere under the fence. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Very often you shout at different moments: hello and glory to heroes. September 19th Ub. The Civic Platform club submitted a draft bill, just then, after this dramatic appeal by the president of the World Army Soldiers Association, to amend the law on combatants... [[You were eight years old.]] ...and the Social Services Act. Mr. Marshal had this project five months in the freezer. Mrs Mazurek from the family committee has kept this proposal since January and does not present it at the committee meeting. In a moment it will be August 1, in a moment the President of the Republic will meet with a smaller group of Warsaw insurgents at the Warsaw Uprising Museum and Professor Leszek Żukowski will be able to ask again: What have you done for a year? Mr. Marshal! I'm filing for a recess. I'm asking you to discipline the family committee to take care of the project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which concerns the 24-hour... [[You're going to the ethics committee for this. Enough with the lies.]] ...staying in veterans, staying free of charge in social services homes in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u9	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your proposal does not concern the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting, so that I ask you very much to submit formal proposals. The proposal relating to the national council, with the introduction to the third reading of laws concerning the National Council of Courts and the Law on the System of General Courts, will be considered in the voting block. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u10	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11.15, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 14. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: explanation of irregularities in the National Cooperative Credit and Savings Fund - hour 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Nuclear energy - immediately after the end of the votes, - Parliamentary Group for: Active Family programme - h.m. 6:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u11	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and certain other laws (Prints No 1647 and 1706). I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and certain other laws. I kindly inform you that according to the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Marshals' Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law, print No 1647, to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for its first reading on 5 July 2017. I would like to clarify that the existing law of 15 May 2015 on substances that deplete the ozone layer and certain fluorinated greenhouse gases refers to the repealed European Union Regulation No This Regulation was repealed and replaced by Regulation No 517/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases. It should be stressed that the issue of the proposed regulation is necessary as the Member States of the European Union are required to notify the European Commission of certification and training programmes in accordance with Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 of the Regulation and of the establishment of provisions on sanctions pursuant to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The second subparagraph of that Regulation. The provisions of the proposed law allow for the adaptation of Regulation No 517/2014 and the six implementing regulations of the European Commission to the amended and applicable provisions of European Union law. The Regulation is directly applicable in the Member States of the European Union, but some issues still need to be regulated in national legislation, e.g. sanctions for non-compliance with those rules or the establishment of a national certification scheme. As a result of the introduction of the draft national rules, harmonised obligations are imposed, inter alia. for operators of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment and fire-fighting systems and electrical switchboards and for natural persons performing operations requiring a staff certificate. The most important of the changes are, among others. the extension of the certification obligation with regard to the extended catalogue of equipment, the modification of the labelling obligation, the modification of the scope of the documentation carried out, as well as the adaptation of the criminal provisions to the amended national provisions and the provisions arising directly from Regulation No 517/2014 and the adaptation of the provisions on administrative penalty payments to the scope of the amended law and European Union legislation on fluorinated greenhouse gases. Following the addition of a new equipment catalogue in Regulation No 517/2014, a staff certificate is required to perform certain activities on these equipment. Therefore, a new group of natural persons performing activities requiring a staff certificate was covered by the proposed law. They shall also be subject to a change in the obligations imposed on manufacturers of products and equipment with regard to labelling and reporting requirements. High Izbo! During the work of the committee, legislative and linguistic amendments tabled by the Legislative Office of the Sejm were introduced and doubts raised by the social side were clarified. The questions concerned, among others: new or modified obligations under European Union legislation on fluorinated greenhouse gases, i.e. e.g. the obligation to certify personnel carrying out certain activities with regard to refrigeration units for refrigerated trucks and trailers containing f-gases, matters relating to the acquisition of f-gases, the issue of keeping relevant documentation or specific reporting. In view of the introduction of additional certification requirements for the carrying out of operations with regard to refrigeration units for heavy goods vehicles and trailers, natural persons wishing to acquire qualifications in this area will be required in this case to submit a positive additional examination in the assessment body. In view of the imposition of new obligations under Regulation No 517/2014, additional obligations will be imposed on suppliers of non-hermetically sealed equipment containing fluorinated greenhouse gases, the seller of fluorinated greenhouse gases and the placing on the market of fluorinated greenhouse gases, including in particular hydrofluorocarbons contained in pre-filled refrigeration, air conditioning or heat pumps. The introduction of the proposed rules will also allow for simplification by posting document templates only in electronic form in the central repository of electronic document templates instead of creating regulations specifying those designs. The amended provisions of the law and implementing acts will allow Poland to fulfil notification obligations as a Member State of the European Union, i.e. notify the European Commission of national certification and training programmes and the establishment of national criminal rules. The Act shall enter into force 30 days after the date of publication on the grounds of 1 January 2017, to which the Member States of the European Union were required to notify the European Commission of the certification and training programmes in accordance with Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 Regulation No 517/2014 and the establishment of rules on sanctions pursuant to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The second subparagraph of that Regulation. At the same time, WW. the date of entry into force of the Act will allow for the harmonisation of national rules with European Union legislation on fluorinated greenhouse gases, which is important due to obligations imposed on operators, companies and personnel. In conclusion, the committee, following its first reading and after an in-depth examination of this draft law at its meeting on 5 July 2017, requests the adoption by the High Chamber of the draft print law No 1706. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u13	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am taking the floor on the draft law amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and on certain other laws, prints No 1647 and 1706. The main objective of the proposed regulation is to implement the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repeal Regulation (EC) No Fluorinated greenhouse gases are used in refrigeration equipment, they are used as foaming and fire-extinguishing agents as aerosol gases or solvents. Their emissions into the atmosphere affect the warming of the climate. The gases that destroy the ozone layer include halons and freons. The project sets out a system of certificates for companies and natural persons working with these gases and substances. This applies to operators and servicers of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment containing fluorinated greenhouse gases or ozone-destructive substances, fire-fighting system operators equipped with these gases, natural persons performing operations requiring a certificate of recovery of f-gases from car air-conditioning systems, aerosol manufacturers, fire-extinguishing agents, refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment. The Act introduces requirements for checking the leaks of equipment, training and certificates relating to entrepreneurs and natural persons, the requirement to supply equipment with labels correctly describing the product, and the requirement to report on the activities carried out. Companies using these gases, which import or export them from the country, are required to submit annual reports in electronic form. The monitoring of compliance with the laws and regulations will be carried out by an environmental inspection, the State Fire Department, the Minister of National Defence, possibly the authorities indicated by him. In the case of infringements, penalty payments will be applied. The penalty will be imposed by the Regional Environmental Inspector, possibly by the Regional Commissioner of the State Fire Service. The proposed legislation introduces the principle of posting model documents only in electronic form in the central repository of model electronic documents. Within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act, the Central Operator Register will be modified. Operators of devices and systems who have established cards in the Central Operator Register prior to the date of entry into force of the proposed Act will be required to complete the data in the cards within 6 months of the date of adaptation of the Central Operator Register to the requirements of this Act. The legal regulations proposed in the draft law, the requirement to have appropriate qualifications to perform certain activities in relation to the new equipment catalogue will result in minor changes in the labour market and will contribute to the improvement of the level of qualifications of staff. The amended provisions of the law and implementing acts will allow Poland to fulfil notification obligations as a Member State of the European Union. The Act shall enter into force 30 days after the date of publication on the grounds of 1 January 2017, to which the Member States of the European Union were required to notify the certification and training programmes. The date of entry into force of the Act will allow for the harmonisation of national legislation with European Union legislation on fluorinated greenhouse gases. Law and Justice have a positive opinion on the above. changes presented in the bill of conduct. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u15	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u16	My speech concerns the draft law amending the Law on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and some other laws, prints no 1647 and 1706. The purpose of this regulation is to implement the provisions of Regulation (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and Regulations of the European Commission implementing that Regulation. The current Law of 15 May 2015 on substances that deplete the ozone layer and certain fluorinated greenhouse gases refers to the repealed Regulation of the European Communities of 17 May 2006. As I have already mentioned, this Regulation has been repealed and replaced by the 2014 Regulation and should therefore also be examined in the Polish Parliament. The European Union regulation is directly applicable in the Member States of the European Union, which distinguishes the Regulation from the Directive, but some issues still need to be regulated in national legislation, in the law, in regulations, for example. the issue of sanctions for non-compliance or the establishment of a national certification scheme. It was therefore necessary to adapt the provisions to the amended and existing provisions of European Union law, namely Regulation No 517 of 2014 and those six implementing regulations of the European Commission. Since the new rules of the European Union are based on previously issued legislation in this area and the 2006 Regulation has been repealed without prejudice to compliance with the requirements of the new Regulation, Member States are required to modify national rules in accordance with the timetable set out therein and not to create them from scratch. Therefore, the Act will amend the existing Act of 15 May 2015 on substances that deplete the ozone layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases. As a result of the implementation of the draft national rules, among other things, they will be implemented. harmonised obligations imposed on operators of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment and fire-fighting systems and electrical switchboards containing fluorinated greenhouse gases and on natural persons performing activities requiring a staff certificate. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club supports the bill and at the same time asks the Minister whether the proposed legislation is not too extensive and will not cost too much to entrepreneurs, as well as the second question whether the project was compared with the law of other European countries and what conclusions were drawn in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u17	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law contained in print no. 1647. The bill under review concerns the whole of society and a large part of the economy, as fluorinated greenhouse gases are widely used, mainly in refrigeration, air conditioning and heat pumps. The scale of this use is demonstrated by the fact that these devices consume 15-20% All the energy. This regulation is unfortunately unavoidable at the moment, but it should be formulated in such a way that it is as neutral as possible for national entrepreneurship and suddenly it does not turn out that, for example. Foreign companies must come to service their cars, taking the work of national service companies, in connection with the undermining of certificates issued only last year. A few years ago, the European Union decided not to use the so-called "European Union." controlled substances, more efficient than current ones, which were widely used and even before, at the turn of the 20th and 21st century. - from refrigeration agents on which e.g. The refrigerator has been able to work for up to 20 and 30 years, replacing fluorinated gases. Today it turns out that it was wrong, and it is also necessary to withdraw from these gases. It is therefore necessary to replace devices, to buy new, produced outside Poland, and exchanged gases for much, even ten times, more expensive. Such a policy will be particularly severe for smaller Polish entrepreneurs, especially in food production. It is known that it will all translate into an increase in costs. The benefits will be obtained by manufacturers of devices and components of these exchanged devices - of course the western ones. The scale of costs will be huge, which unfortunately has been overlooked in the impact assessment. The law gives rise to costs for service companies that will be passed on to users of devices and, as a result, to society. This issue has been omitted in the explanatory memorandum of the project. The state budget will also contribute to the impact of the regulation. I have no doubt about it. The greatest weakness of the proposed law is that it goes far beyond EU regulations. We are dealing with overregulation, while creating many legislative gates to circumvent the provisions of the law. This regulation is certainly the most extensive in the European Union. Once again, the Polish legislature goes beyond the standards imposed by EU legislation, to the detriment of itself - because compliance with many provisions cannot be controlled and in fact it is not controlled - and for the entrepreneurship of Poles. The draft law imposes new obligations on entrepreneurs using substances set out in the Act in their activities, introduces new fees and significantly extends the catalogue of acts for which penalty payments are threatened. Expansion is subject to e.g. business information obligations related to the marketing and use of f-gases. Since, however, it is necessary - which once again - to adapt Polish legislation to the EU, the Kukiz Club makes amendments to eliminate irregularities and its harmful effects on life and economic activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I present the position of the club regarding the draft law amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and some other laws. The contested law actually implements the obligation arising from EU regulations. This includes: extending the scope of certificates that should be authorised by the technicians installing and repairing refrigeration units in transport refrigeration, regulating the sale of universal technical equipment such as air conditioners, refrigeration equipment, heat pumps and the like, by registering and keeping records of its trading, and modifying its marking. In addition, the project provides for the need to re-issue, without modification of the content, a dozen or so ministerial regulations. The justification for the project did not sufficiently assess the scale of costs incurred by entrepreneurs and the public sector, limited to the issue of certification fees. The draft introduces a number of high financial penalties, including failure to correct the report within the deadline. The penalties appear to be determined arbitraryly and separately from the actual gravity of the infringement. Ladies and gentlemen, at least 6,000. zł Penalty for failure to comply with formalities in documents is a very high penalty, especially for small, single-person business activities. In turn, a maximum penalty of 30,000. zł for the placing on the market of prohibited equipment or substances seems to be inappropriately deterring, especially since Regulation No 517/2014 covers a number of equipment reaching high prices on the market, which are translated into higher nominal margins of the traders. The law and the law are being amended incredibly extended to include regulations which do not appear in the requirements laid down in Union law and, on the other hand, can be pointed out to be completely ignored. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The obligation to keep records for refrigeration units in refrigerated trucks and refrigerated trailers is introduced. According to the project, this documentation will be included in the central register in the Polish language and the information contained therein will only be available to the operator and manager of the registry entity. This documentation, and in particular the records of periodic leakage reviews carried out, will be exclusively electronic, not available to operators authorised to carry out inspections of refrigerated vehicles. In general, there is serious doubt as to how the Polish carrier will document compliance with the requirements before the police in France, Germany, Spain and transport insurers. This issue has not been resolved by the government in any way. It turns out that the barriers of Polish carriers, with such success operating on the markets of the European Union, are not only placed by some countries, but above all by their own government - this is unthinkable at all. We will lead to the situation that carriers will receive reviews and relevant documents abroad, and thus expose them to further difficulties and unnecessary costs, because similar reviews will have to be carried out in the country for documentation in the Polish electronic database. Several thousand Polish drivers carry out their professional tasks outside Poland and it is necessary to maintain respect for this work and to regulate the issue of periodic inspection of refrigerated vehicles in accordance with the procedure adopted in other countries of the European Union. This is probably not the central base that Poland is implementing exclusively in the European Union. We call on the government to lean on this issue. The amended law was examined in Parliament in the first half of 2015, i.e. relatively recently. The opposition PiS signalled an excessive expansion of the project beyond the requirements of implementation of EU law, errors in technical definitions, e.g. concerning the installation of equipment, shortcomings in the mode of identification of training and testing units and, finally, the risks of a corrupt nature. 19 amendments were tabled by law and justice - Sejm No. 3353-A, previous term of office of the Sejm. Of course, according to the tradition in our parliament, all the requests of the PiS were rejected. The club, including Mr Kaczyński, Prime Minister Szydło and, above all, Minister Szyszko, voted against the laws governing environmental protection. Today, when the Polish PiS rules Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when there is a possibility of repairing faulty regulation, it turns out that those events are meaningless. Were they considered meaningless at the time? Your Marshal, may I have a minute?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u21	Please, but finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u22	The Act gives the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs a delegation to issue an implementing regulation setting out the technical equipment requirements to be available to the operator or technicians installing or repairing air conditioners. [[We're in the Union.]] He's the specialist, and he knows exactly what tools he's going to do his job with, and he doesn't impose specific tools on him that are going to be in his bag, and at this point, he's actually benefitting the companies that trade this equipment. Please indicate at least one European Union country which is so deeply involved in the installation or repair of air conditioners. There are no such countries outside Poland. Limit... [[Bullshit!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u23	Get close to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u24	Now, Marshal, I'm done. The Act introduces unequal treatment of economic operators by placing individuals engaged in economic activities at a significantly disadvantage. If, in connection with the appeal to the court against an administrative decision imposing a penalty under the current law, the owner of the company loses the appeal proceedings, he loses the certificate and has to close the company, while the company with a similar certificate will pay the fine and further normal functioning. In addition, the Act will make it difficult for entrepreneurs to act in a key way from the point of view of improvement... [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u25	Member, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u26	...air quality in Poland in the heat pumps industry. Heat pumps are one of the most expensive for installation, but the cheapest in operation... [[Your Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u27	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u28	...and emission-free heat sources.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u29	Member, please, because you have already exceeded your time. [[Two minutes, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u30	Now. The dissemination of this non-burning technology gives an opportunity to improve fatal air quality in Poland. The modern project will therefore not support this project and calls for this project to be rejected because of such a short time when we could still make amendments. I'd be happy to give you a copy of the amendments you've made. [[Jesus, facts, not myths.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u31	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u32	Thank you. It's really sad...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u33	Thank you, Member. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mrs Urszula Pasławska made her statement in writing. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. Please remain calm in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia wheels, I present our position on the draft law amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and some other laws. The main objective of the proposed regulation is to implement the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on fluorinated greenhouse gases. The Act regulates e.g. sanctions for non-compliance and provisions concerning the national certification scheme. The most important changes concern the extension of the certification obligation with regard to the enlarged equipment catalogue, the modification of the labelling obligation, the modification of the scope of the documentation carried out and the adaptation of the criminal rules to the amended national rules. This is a good solution because it increases compliance control and thus reduces the risk of failure, which consequently protects the environment. As a result of the introduction of the draft national legislation, harmonised obligations will be imposed, inter alia. for operators of refrigeration, air-conditioning and fire-fighting systems and electrical switchboards and for natural persons performing operations requiring a staff certificate. Consolidation of responsibilities is a simplification. Each simplification is a facilitation of activity, so it is not a matter of discussion that it is a step in the right direction. It is the same with the obligation to have a certificate. Despite the fact that this provision generates costs for entrepreneurs due to the need to obtain qualifications for staff, the undisputed benefit of this solution is to increase the safety and qualification of staff. I realize that not all the provisions of this law are beneficial for entrepreneurs because they generate new costs for them. The introduction of a law adapting national law to European law is necessary. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u35	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club. Question time - 1 minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u36	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The question of punishment for premeditating inappropriate substances. This penalty according to the project amounts to 30,000. zł. It's a lot, and it's not much. [[Voice from the room: 300.]] It seems that a percentage of turnover would be more appropriate here, because the amount is an amount. For one company a given amount may be small, for the other low. I am therefore wondering whether such regulation is worthwhile. The question to the applicants, to the representatives of the ruling party, whether or not they will yet bend over to this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u37	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u38	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to ask about financial issues and penalties, because the project, as we know, introduces a number of high financial penalties, including failure to correct the report on time. Those penalties shall be determined in an arbitrary manner. This is a minimum of 6 000 for failing to correct this report. zł. It's just for not filling out the paperwork, isn't it? On the other hand, as Mr Kobyliński said, there is a penalty of 30,000. PLN for the placing on the market of prohibited equipment with premeditation. Please consider whether one is too high and the other is too low in the case of these penalties. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u39	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u40	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Why the Act does not provide for improvements in device cards as regards fluorinated gases and the Central Operator Register, e.g. by ensuring that persons who enter them can be identified or by means of arrangements for the conduct of cards for devices which infringe the principle of freedom of business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u41	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the reporting obligations. Art. 1 in Amendment 31. Such obligations impose on operators importing substances, let's call them greenhouse gases. This is an obligation, which appears to be the result of this provision concerning transport companies. Now the question is how transport companies would be obliged to do this because they have only a small set of information about such transport. They do not have all the information necessary to complete and submit such a report on these substances. Therefore, my question. Of course, here my colleagues have already mentioned that these are quite serious punishments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How will these transport companies perform these duties? Will they be released at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u43	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław... [[Zbigniew.]] ... Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Law and Justice have repeatedly accused their predecessors, often rightly so, that in the process of transposing European law into our own country we have often shown overzealousness and have introduced these rules much more than the European Union has required of us. Unfortunately, here we are dealing with a similar example. In this law I find a lot of provisions that impose new certification obligations on Polish entrepreneurs, in terms of marking, drawing up further reports, which is, of course, cumbersome for entrepreneurs, because instead of focusing on the basic business, they have to comply with all these documents, which is also expensive because they burden entrepreneurs. Why are you doing this? Why, contrary to your predictions, do you not make life easier? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the contrary, do you hinder the functioning of Polish entrepreneurs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u45	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very brief question about certificates. Minister, how long before the bill comes into force will the natural persons have to obtain a new certificate? Because I understand that the bill comes in, and the job, so to speak, these people are continuing, and they do certain activities every day. And does the new scope of the changes in the documentation carried out differ significantly from that currently under way? What's the range? Please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u47	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about the obligation to certify staff who carry out certain activities with regard to refrigeration units in refrigerated trucks, refrigerated trailers containing f-gas, and the following thing also relating to the keeping of relevant documentation and reporting: How much of the regulations we provide in the provisions of the law are the result of European regulations, and how much do we, as a Polish Parliament, want additional regulations? One thing is known - keeping further documentation for companies, for people working in these companies, for staff will generate certain costs. I would like to know whether this results directly from European regulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u49	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, why does the draft law allow the trading of f-gases and their use only by entrepreneurs and prevent natural persons from doing so? After all, such a solution is detrimental to the State because of budgetary revenues and the fight against the shadow economy. In addition, I would like to ask why the proposed legislative act does not contain provisions on proof of the conclusion of an agreement, e.g. for the trading of f-gases, for organisational units without legal personality, e.g. public limited liability companies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u51	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the ruling party. Namely, I reached for print number 3353-A. This is an additional report from the Environment Committee of 13 May 2015 - 10 amendments to Law and Justice. On the other hand, when I wanted to find the elements that were included in the amendments you tabled in the previous term, it was difficult for me to find them in the current proposal. I'd like to ask you what happened to change your mind. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u53	Thank you very much, Member. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Paweł Sałek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for asking the questions that have been presented to the government side. They kind of replicate in some places. I will try to answer these questions one at a time, also in a compact way. In answer to Mr Sonik's question, I would like to point out that these legislative work, which is currently being carried out, stem directly from EU regulations. We are talking here about two regulations which are implemented into Polish law under the law which is currently being discussed. One regulation concerns fluorinated greenhouse gases, the second regulation relates to substances that deplete the ozone layer. In our legislative work, we combine these two themes into one legislative act, because they, from the professional, engineering, can be said, are very linked. As regards matters relating to regulation and overregulation in relation to EU law, the changes made do not go beyond European Union law and there is no overregulation there. In addition, the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the subject of compliance with EU law is clear and positive. As far as the sanction case is concerned, please note that here we have amounts from PLN 300 to PLN 6 000. I have no possibility here that this money will be directly in such a large amount... that the players will receive such penalties. As far as the certificates are concerned, I wanted to point out that today is about 10,000. people in Poland who have such powers, and more than 4 thousand. companies have these certificates, which means that this is not some difficult issue when it comes to obtaining these certificates. There's another thing about the question that was, about the certificates. These certificates - I answer Mrs April's question - remain valid, those which are now, at this moment. Upon entry into force of the Regulations, these certificates will be available for up to 3 months. Mr Costowniak's question. I answer: yes, these are the EU regulations which commit us to the fact that we must introduce this law, whether we like it or not. As regards the question of Mr Rometsky concerning the modification of the equipment, I would like to point out that this modification will be directly based on the database regulation. This regulation must be introduced. I will say in this way that in Poland and in general throughout Europe sometimes there is a problem with data. And if we want to speak well and honestly with the European Commission, this data, to put it simply - here I am talking not only about fluorinated gases - must be sourced from the market and must be very reliable, because later, during discussions with our partners in Brussels, there are some reservations that we do not have data. So these data, ladies and gentlemen, are essential. This register is not difficult to fill out. Another thing, I already mentioned here - the amount of penalties. Except there are forks between 300 and 6,000. zł, it should be remembered, however, that there is a possibility, and it is written in the bill that you may waive these penalties. Here it is, there's a possibility. Question about the previous scope of the law. It must be said that this regulation, one of these EU regulations, has changed its scope. That is why we are committed to bringing this into our legal order in the near future. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative change. As far as transport companies and Mr Suchonia's question are concerned, I would like to say that transport companies have a direct obligation to provide data on cold stores: cars and trailers, which must be checked by certified personnel. This comes directly from EU law. We absolutely do not want our transport sector to be subject to this legislative obligation, which is to burden, but we are obliged by EU law also to deal with this issue. I think I've answered all the questions of the ladies and gentlemen. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u55	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u56	Position of the PSL Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and on certain other laws, prints No 1647 and 1706. The amendment of the law is linked to the alignment of national legislation with European Union legislation. Changes shall be made to the obligations imposed on operators of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment and fire-fighting systems and electrical switchboards (containing fluorinated greenhouse gases) and to natural persons performing activities requiring a staff certificate. The most important of the changes will be to extend the certification obligation for the enlarged equipment catalogue, to modify the labelling obligation, to change the scope of the documentation carried out and to adapt the criminal rules to the amended national rules. This applies primarily to refrigeration and air conditioning equipment operators containing fluorinated greenhouse gases, i.e. Refrigeration units of trucks and refrigerated trailers, as regards the establishment and operation of equipment cards, the performance of specific operations by appropriately certified personnel and the carrying out of mandatory leakage checks. Therefore, the proposed law also proposes appropriate changes in the frequency range of these controls and changes in administrative fines. These changes in the Act will have a negative financial impact on companies operating in the industry. Companies will have to obtain certificates for staff or certificates for entrepreneurs that will carry out an individual certification body. The Polish People's Party will not vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u57	As amendments were tabled at the second reading of the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the Fund for Roads and on amending certain other laws (Print No 1712). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to provide a justification for the project. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law on the Fund for the Roads of Self-Government and to amend certain other laws... [[A new tax, to say the least.]] ...included in print number 1712. It is often said that roads are the blood of the economy. So let us take a look at the situation in our country. The highway is 1660 km... [[Voice from the room: Platform...]] ... express roads - 1600 km... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[You can build, you can.]] ...national roads - 19,000. One kilometer... [[Exactly.]] ...voivodship roads - 29 thousand. km, county roads - 125 thousand. km and municipal roads - 244 thousand. It's a kilometer. [[And how long have you guys been building for two years? How much did you build for two years?]] At this point, it is worth trying to assess the state of the roads. As far as motorways and expressways are concerned, they are very well built. [[Voice from the room: How many new tenders, thanks to the Platform, 8 years...]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] At the end of the reign...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u59	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u60	...at the end of the Platform and PSL coalition... [[Voice from the room: 212 km.]] ...a national road construction programme was adopted for 2014 and 20203, for which a total of PLN 107 billion was planned to be allocated. And as soon as this program was announced, the government of that time knew that for such a sum of all these roads it was not able to build. But the requirements of the election campaign were that you had to boast of a very ambitious plan, [[Applause]] an ambitious intention. Today, the government of law and justice... [[Voice from the room: There's nothing to brag about.]] ...this program has changed. We added... [[Voice from the room: After 2 years.]] ...to this amount of PLN 107 billion... [[Voice from the hall: Tenders.]] ... 28 billion PLN. Right now we have... [[But it's halfway through the term.]] ...in the budget of PLN 135 billion. And we can be sure that the expressway and highway system will be built, it will be the pride of all of us. [[Right.]] The situation is a little worse when it comes to national roads. Here, of course, significant resources are involved, but the challenges we face are equally serious, because there have been many years of negligence. The result of these neglects... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Your negligence, two years of doing nothing.]] As a result of these neglects of the previous government, the Platform Coalition and PSL... [[Don't tell jokes.]] ...is the decision of the European Commission recently taken to sue Poland before the Court of Justice of the European Union. And the reason for this is that mostly national roads are not adapted to the need to shift pressures up to 11.5 t per axle. We respond to this situation and allocate further significant resources to this adaptation, and according to estimates by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, in order to meet 100% this requirement, we need about PLN 50 billion. That's a very significant amount. [[The voice from the room: But for what purpose is the money...]] Let's move on to local roads now. With them it is by far the worst and, in principle, since the local government reform, local government officials have been complaining about the worsening of their condition systematically. [[The program - the schematics.]] I think that there is no need to even reach the results of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit, here I will quote the report only from 2014 when NIK controlled road safety. I think that everyone, each of us, who is a driver, who is a user of local roads, is aware that their technical condition leaves much to be desired. [[This had to be built over the last two years.]] And the technical condition, the bad state of the local roads... [[Two whole years, nothing.]] ...is a serious barrier to Poland's economic development, but it is also a threat to safety, because it is worth to realise that 16 thousand people reach on local, municipal and district roads every year. accidents. In these cases, more than 1,000 people die a year, and the wounds, often severe wounds, amount to 18,000. persons. If we look at the percentage, the accidents on the municipal and district roads are 47%, the wounded are 45%. And, of course, for some, it's just statistics. 1,000 dead, 1500 - what difference does it make? But let us realize that behind all these road events there are specific dramas, dramas of Polish families... [[What kind of cheap populism is this, sir, you can't do that.]] ...which members die in cases where members suffer severe injuries. Of course, the cause of these accidents is not always the bad state of the roads, but I think I do not have to convince anyone that, however, very often so. And that is why we as politicians, people responsible for the state of things in Poland, should stand at the level of the task. We can't hide our heads in the sand. At this point I would like to mention the conversation that I had with the commune of Łubowo a few years ago, Mr Andrzej Łozowski. [[Advertisement.]] This was at a time when several municipalities were burdened with taking over the national road, because the S5 expressway was built and the obligation to maintain this road, the old five, fell on several municipalities, among others. to the municipality of Łubowo. The cost of maintaining this road with national road parameters... [[Not communes, just voivodships.]] Wait a minute, no. No. The resources that were at the disposal of the municipality were not sufficient... [[Voice from the room: The roads are lower category...]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...about the budget of PLN 23 million. But your uncle told me those words, he said: Mr, I know we can't afford it, I know that maintaining the standard of this road during the winter... [[Voivodeship, not communal.]] ...it's gonna cost me a lot of money, but I don't want to take on my conscience anybody who, by negligence, could be the victim of an accident. [[There's no excuse for that.]] And he kept this road from the municipal money, and at the same time... [[Voice from the room: But we can change the bill.]] ... He took action that was going to do this... [[Voice from the hall: Stealing from Poles.]] ...to change this paradigm so that the national road doesn't become... [[Voice from the room: We changed the bill.]] ...right away by the municipal road, only to introduce a mechanism that will become a voivodship road. And it worked. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] And it worked, and you don't have to convince me... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: It's voivodship.]] ...because I've been working on this amendment. [[Voice from the room: But what are you talking about?]] Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about this just to show you... [[Voice from the Chamber: To the subject, Mr.]] ...that a self-governmentman, a host of flesh and blood... [[Voice from the hall: You want to rob Poles.]] ...was held accountable. And so do we... [[Voice from the room: What concern for self-government.]] ...and we have to... [[Voice from the room: More taxes.]] ...to feel responsible for the state of these roads. [[Voice from the room: That's why taxes.]] Because I know that the State, the State of Platform and PSL... [[Voice from the Chamber: Under this responsibility.]] ...you can say that unfortunately... [[You're the one with the roar. You're the one who doesn't care.]] ...but these are communal or district roads, and that doesn't apply to us. But this responsibility anyway, and yes - will you be... [[Voice from the room: Why did you close the schetiny?]] ...the state thought in this way whether you would think like the mayor of the municipality of Łubowo - it is this responsibility... [[And another tax.]] ... She's pregnant with you. And be aware of that. It's our responsibility. [[The voice from the room: Then why did you eliminate the schetiny? Why?]] [[Then do it out of the budget, not raise taxes.]] And the changes in this area, the funding of road tasks carried out by municipalities and by powiats have been called on by local government for years, by individual local authorities, individual municipalities and individual districts, but also by local government unions... [[You tricked the Poles.]] [[Twelve and a half thousand. One kilometer of scheming.]] ... The Union of Rural Districts of Poland. I'll read it to you. I think that some of you who are interested in this subject, these appeals, these conclusions know, but maybe there's someone in the courtroom who doesn't know it. It's for those of you who don't know, screaming loudly, a few bits. Position of the XX General Assembly of the Polish Districts Association, 1 June 2016 on local roads. We read: The network of local roads in Poland is quite poorly developed, in addition they are characterized by low surface quality, which negatively distinguishes Poland from other countries of the European Union. And further: However, we believe that local roads require a permanent, I stress, support mechanism which is not subject to funding from the European Union budget or to changes in state policy at central level. Providing a stable and stable source of co-financing for investment on district roads would help to revive regions with poor communication, provide people with access to public goods and services and improve their quality of life. [[Voice from the Chamber: And that is the source of the state budget, Mr President, that is the source of the state budget.]] And also the rulers... Now listen, because I have something good to say. [[Voice from the room: No chance.]] Also in the previous 8 years, the so-called project has been recognised and emerged. Speaking colloquially, sketches. [[Applause]] You are sitting here, Mr Schetyna... [[May I have some truth, sir?]] Such a program was actually implemented, maybe a little bit more media noise than those kilometers of built roads, but... [[Twelve and a half thousand. It's a ……]] This is Mr Rutnicki's description of how many kilometers have been built... [[Voice from the room: No extra taxes.]] ...and praise you for doing this. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Glory be to you for that. [[Good eight years.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, local government officials considered these actions insufficient... [[So you shut it down.]] ...and they performed many times, as I mentioned just now, in the Polish Districts Association, but this also applies to the Association of Rural Communities of the Republic of Poland and individual local governments... [[Voice from the hall: It's communal roads.]] ...to replace this mechanism with a permanent financing mechanism. The development programme for municipal and district road infrastructure for 2016-2019 is currently being implemented. In the envelope we have PLN 3800 million. In 2016, 800 million PLN was spent from this pool. Someone's gonna say a lot. [[Someone else is gonna say it's not much.]] But if we take into account the fact that only 45% of the local government that applied for funding benefited from this scheme last year, we can see how much more needs are still in place. In case of 55% Municipalities applying for funding have been dealt with negatively, and many local authorities have not applied to this programme at all. For various reasons, often, especially in the case of poor rural communities, but also some of the poor districts, due to lack of own resources, and there, in these poor municipalities and districts, Poles also live on good roads. [[But they can't afford it because the fuel will be expensive.]] [[Voice from the room: bikes, I think.]] [[With what, a bike?]] [[Roller-rollers.]] It's a common expectation of everyone. Good roads should of course be in Warsaw, of course in Poznań, in Gdańsk and Krakow, but also in smaller towns, on the eastern wall, in Podkarpacie, in Wielkopolska, everywhere... [[Then cut your expenses.]] ... regardless of the level of income. [[But the fuel will be expensive and they won't be able to afford it.]] And that's why we're filing this bill. [[To make it more expensive for everyone.]] Its essence is the creation of a Self-Government Road Fund, which will be managed by the Minister responsible for transport within the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Self-Government Road Fund will replace the programme of development of municipal and district road infrastructure, which I already mentioned. I will now proceed to inform the High House of the source of the fund. [[It's a pillow.]] Power source, main power source... [[Voice from the hall: Poles will be there.]] ... There's going to be a public tribute... [[It's a pillow.]] ...in the form of a road toll... [[It's called tax.]] ...liked to an existing fuel charge of 20 gr per litre of fuel plus VAT. And, ladies and gentlemen, it's worth it right now... [[No, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the last word yet.]] ...because I already hear voices, right? I'm hearing a rumor that fuel prices are going to go up. [[Mr President, 50% on national roads.]] [[Of course I do.]] It is worth recalling how fuel prices have evolved in recent years. It's 2011. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[What about the barrel price?]] [[Did we do this by law?]] Average price of diesel - PLN 5.08, petrol 95 [[Voice from the room: $1 112 - barrel.]] Year 2012. The price is rising. [[What about the barrel price? Do you hear me?]] As far as diesel is concerned, Poles paid PLN 5.72... [[Voice from the hall: How much did the barrel cost?]] ...and for gasoline - 5,75 zł. [[What about the barrel price? Are you gonna answer or not?]] On the other hand, the maximum price was already 6 PLN. [[And the price of the barrel...]] In 2013 we have diesel at 5.51 PLN, petrol 95 - at 5.50 PLN. [[And the price of the barrel will you pass?]] In 2014 also more than 5 zł: diesel - 5.20 zł, petrol 95 [[And the price of the barrel, sir, at this time?]] Slightly lower prices were in 2015: PLN 4.50 for diesel, PLN 4.55 for petrol 95. What is the situation today? [[What about the barrel price? What about the barrel price?]] Poles pay for petrol 95 about PLN 4.30.4,40, for diesel - PLN 4.20. [[How much is a barrel?]] High fuel prices were in the days of the Platform and the PSL. [[Touchdown, fun in the hall, applause]] Now the fuels are relatively cheaper, they're much cheaper. [[Relatively twice as expensive.]] They're cheaper. [[In the Podkarpacie.]] And, of course, we must also remind the High House... [[What about the barrel price?]] ...what taxes are in the price of fuel. [[Voice from the room: Exactly. And they'll be bigger.]] [[This needs to be added.]] As far as petrol 95 is concerned, the tax represents 57% prices, diesel - 54% prices. [[Okay, let's cut it down. It's time to lower.]] And somebody might say too much, lower it. Sure. [[Yeah, bravo.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, bravo!]] [[That's what Kaczyński said a few years ago.]] But let's look at how these relationships work in the countries of the old Union. In Germany, there's 63% in petrol. the share of tax, in diesel - 55%. [[And Kaczynski didn't know that a few years ago, did he?]] There's 63% in gas in France, 60% in gas. - in diesel. In Italy, where many Poles are currently travelling on vacation, there are 67% in petrol , in diesel - 64%. There are even more in the UK: 67% in petrol, 66% in diesel. [[But where do we live? In Britain or Poland?]] [[The voice from the room: The PiS will win this...]] And after the adoption, which I believe, by the High House of this bill of taxation... [[Voice from the room: They will be the greatest.]] ...they'll still be lower... [[It's more than 100%.]] ...than in those countries of the old Union, in which - let's remind, if anyone doesn't remember... [[And how much gas costs today...]] [[What are the salaries of the old Union?]] ...the state of the roads is much better and we should strive for those standards. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Political culture, freedom of speech.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet there.]] And we're predicting that after the introduction of the road toll... [[Voice from the room: Power sounded.]] ...there will be no significant increase in fuel prices. I can quote the latest PKN Orlen message here. [[And you're gonna give me the barrel price over the years or not?]] Dynamics - I quote - changes in fuel prices at stations are primarily due to macroeconomic factors. Yeah, macroeconomic. The introduction of the fuel charge does not necessarily imply an increase in fuel prices for station customers. [[For the first two weeks.]] PKN Orlen is paying close attention to all activities having a direct or indirect impact on the fuel market. Initiatives aimed at improving road infrastructure, the condition of which affects both the domestic fuel market and in the wider perspective on the economic development of the country, are positive. The dynamics of fuel price developments at stations are therefore primarily a consequence of macroeconomic factors, as can be seen from price fluctuations recorded in a stable regulatory environment. Therefore, the introduction of the fuel levy does not have to result in an increase in fuel prices for station customers. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, definitely not.]] [[Voice from the room: New economy.]] But it's worth emphasising here... [[Reduced by a raise. May I? Yes, you can.]] ...that fuel prices are not the only component of the cost of operating the car... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Oh, yeah, and the brake pads.]] ...because the bad state of the roads causes and I think... [[Limo business accidents.]] I understand that some of you may not have a driver's license, but you don't know... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Jarosław Kaczyński has no driver's license.]] ...but those who do know that the bad state of the roads... [[Voice from the room: Misplaced argument.]] ...makes the tire wear faster... [[The voice from the hall: You were driving cars.]] ...faster wear of the suspension system... [[An attack on the president?]] ...and there is no doubt that exchange e.g. Tyres are 1 000. PLN, sometimes exceeding 1 000. zł... [[Reviews...]] ...that repairing the suspension system could be spending several thousand zlotys. [[The voice from the hall: Have you repaired the seicinto yet?]] If we improve the quality of roads, Poles will visit car mechanics less often and will not spend much money on repairs of emerging defects. [[How do you feel in your last term?]] [[It'll be cheaper.]] Even assuming this black script that you're writing, it's gonna be an impulse to increase fuel prices at gas stations... [[But it's gonna go up, man.]] ...then you calculate that for a driver who drives around 30,000. km, it's going to be an expense of roughly the purchase price of one tire. It's not a cost that's impossible to bear... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...and the consequences - and this is important - of road accidents... [[Especially a government limousine.]] ...about billions of zlotys that Poles spend on treatment... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u61	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[You can't do that, Marshal. They're crazy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u62	...those who have suffered in these cases... That's a lot of money. We also need to add these costs to this bill. And let's add to that the cost of policies. If there are fewer accidents, the cost of car policies will be lower. [[They went up last year with the bank tax.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Introduce a tax on financial institutions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is worth considering at this point what is the alternative... [[Well, think about it.]] ...which is an alternative source of power to the Self-Government Road Fund. [[Voice from the hall: Misiewiczów slow down.]] It is clear that funding from the state budget is being thought of here, as was the case with this programme that I mentioned. [[4 billion PLN.]] Let me stress this once again: this way of powering is very criticized by local government. [[Because the local government wants to pay more for public transport.]] At this point, it is also worth realizing where the money comes from in the budget. After all, they also come from taxes of Poles. This is not deus ex machine or any perpetuum mobile. It's not like in this budget money just... What? Are they printed? Oh, no. [[Mr President, we are done, no one buys this crap, you raise taxes.]] The budget consists of Poles who pay taxes. [[A voice from the room: Really?]] But the budget power has one more major flaw. [[But go ahead, you've annoyed your colleagues.]] [[Stop it. Spare me the shame.]] To maintain roads, here we are talking about local roads, do not consist of foreigners who move on our roads. [[That's what this is about, isn't it? What a number.]] It is not fair, because the just principle is: Whoever uses it participates in the cost of living. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Here - surprise - I quote for Business.onet. Mr. Adrian Furgalski, Vice President of the Economic Advisors' Team, who cannot be suspected of being a member of the Law and Justice... [[Or sympathy.]] ...or a sympathy for the Law and Justice. He said recently, I quote: Unfortunately, the fee is necessary. The driver should pay for the use of roads according to the principle: he uses, destroys, consumes, that and pays. [[And he's paying. He pays all the time. 30 billion hits.]] So it's not just the opinion of the applicants. This is the opinion of experts who know about construction, renovation, road modernisation. The funds collected in the Road Roads Fund will be allocated in such a way that 50% will go to the Roads Fund and in the same amount they will fund the National Road Fund. The task of the Self-Government Road Fund will be to finance the construction, renovation and modernisation of municipal, district and bridge roads throughout the voivodship roads. The Minister responsible for Transport will determine in the Regulation the amount of appropriations for the region concerned and the criteria for assessing applications. Local government units will be able to receive funding in principle of 50% the cost of carrying out the task, but in the case of local government units where the per capita own income does not exceed 50% the national average for the type of local government unit, the level of funding may be up to 80%. So we're putting in place a mechanism that will allow road investments in the poorest municipalities, in the poorest counties, in those that didn't benefit from the Chetynówki because they didn't have the resources for their own contribution. This is a great novel, it will be an element of equalization of development opportunities, because - as I said - all Poles regardless of where they live, equally deserve good roads. [[Everybody's gonna pay more for fuel.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet there.]] [[Does the truth hurt?]] The proposed solution is flexible. The investment will not have to be carried out during a given calendar year, and this was the case - let's call it that, in order to give the honor of President Schetyna here - this sketch programme. [[Applause]] [[And here's the applause. Yes, you can.]] Here, unfortunately, if for some reason the local government did not carry out the investment for which it received funding, either the tendering procedures were extended or the executive company did not have time to implement it, the next year it could not benefit from this funding. Now such a flexible principle will allow many years of investment, and it will also reward municipalities, which will communicate, for example. with counties or agreements of several counties, so as to create a coherent network of roads. Someone might ask why 50% The road toll will be allocated to the National Road Fund. Well, the answer is very simple... [[Via Carpatia.]] ...because it is the consistency that needs to be ensured in carrying out the tasks. In case we implement e.g. reconstruction of the district road, which connects with the national road... [[But it's written in a project that's been running for 10 years.]] ...there are also some work to be done on national roads. That's why there's this 50% write-down for the National Road Fund. [[It's made from the general budget of the Directorate.]] You understand that, because that's how it works. And so it must work, only the means must be more, because this is the essence of this program: there will be more resources. Who's gonna share that money? [[Chairman.]] They will be shared by committees operating in the voivodships, which will assess the conclusions. [[PiS committees, PiS committees.]] The lists of these proposals will be approved by the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction... [[Mr PiS-owski Minister, PiS-owski.]] ...and the voivode will sign agreements with the municipality or with the county and supervise the implementation. We're not introducing any new solutions here. This is a proven solution, these committees are working and they will continue to work. So that this programme will be implemented in a very transparent way and in a way that will make all good proposals positive. 'Cause let's just say, once again, I'm going to stress that for this scheming program, once again... [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Bravo! Don't be embarrassed, there's more.]] ...in 2016, we spent 800 million and that was enough, as I said, for 45% of the proposals. [[We did, you did.]] In the case of the Self-Government Road Fund, we predict that it will amount to about PLN 2.5 billion, which is three times more than it has been so far. [[Applause]] So if this project had been adopted earlier, then in 2016... [[Voice from the room: More gasoline.]] [[Voice from the room: You slept a year.]] ...not only that all applications would be considered positive, but there would still be money for those self-governments that have not submitted applications. [[And the poor drivers will pay for everything.]] This shows what is the dimension of this project and what is progress, jumping progress, funding, funding... [[Yes, sir.]] ...road tasks carried out by municipalities and powiats, in part also the voivodship. [[Simple plan, high taxes, and that's it.]] Many Poles... [[Voice from the room: He's happy.]] ...probably a little skeptical about... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[A holiday present.]] [[Nah... aren't they happy?]] ...that regulation, because it does not believe that the funds collected in the Fund for Roads will actually go on the road, because unfortunately, in your governments, these funds were disappearing somewhere... [[On the roads, we built roads.]] ...and they weren't spent on roads. [[Applause]] That is why we are proposing to the High House this bill that will make these 2,5 The billions that will be included in the Self-Government Road Fund will not be spent on any other task, but solely on road construction... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Way to change! Way to change! Way to change!]] ...to finance tasks that will be carried out by local governments. [[Taxes up!]] This is information for such extreme disbelievers, but I suppose those who have bad will or use only the messages of the day will probably not be persuaded. Maybe they can convince them of these thousands of miles of roads... [[Which we built.]] ...which will be built as a result of this project. We estimate that out of this 2.5 billion PLN... [[But don't estimate it, just build it, because you haven't built anything in two years.]] ...will be built annually, upgraded, renovated 6,000. km of roads. A year. [[Applause]] [[How much did you build for two years?]] [[What do farmers say?]] Mr Rutnicki told me that the programme concerning the so-called. Schetynówka led to refurbished some 12,500. km of roads. [[Yes, sir.]] But please note that this is as much as we're going to renovate our fund in two years. This is jumping progress. [[Applause]] [[But the time has come, so far you have zero.]] Mr Rutnicki, you cannot imagine how many roads this is. [[More slides, you can really get infected.]] [[It's hard to imagine, because you haven't built anything in two years.]] Let me remind you that in total we have more than 3200 km of motorways and expressways. [[Voice from the room: 2 years.]] During the year twice as many local roads will be renovated. [[Twice zero is zero.]] This will be a real growth boost for Poland. [[Applause]] [[A real pocket drain.]] So that Mr Rutnicki can see which road will be renovated, built from the funds of the road fund... [[Voice from the room: All of them.]] ...will be able to see an information board there, which will inform about it, as in the case of investments made from EU funds. [[Voice from the room: Funded by Jarosław Kaczyński.]] High Seym! In addition, the proposal provides for the amendment of several laws. The most important change is the amendment to the Land Transport Infrastructure Financing Act. It aims to increase the minimum level of resources for land transport infrastructure from 18 to 25% of the annual excise duties on motor fuels. This will increase the amount of funding from the state budget to national roads managed by the General Director of National Roads and Motorways. The anticipated increase in funds for national roads in connection with these changes should amount to about PLN 5 billion, I repeat, PLN 5 billion for the general management of... [[From the pockets of Poles.]] ...which will be used for renovation and technical adjustment of roads to carry pressure to those 11,5 t per axle. I was talking about the fact that the European Commission is threatening us. We have to do this, but it's not because of the threat, it's because of the genuine need. This solution is extremely praised by experts. I could also quote the words of Adrian Furgalski, mentioned earlier. The amendment will also apply to the law on the income of local government units. It will specifically concern grants to local authorities for road investments and the consequences of the creation of the Self-Government Road Fund. There will be an end to this.Programme of development of municipal and district road infrastructure. [[And 3 billion in the budget stays.]] We're also predicting a change in the Forest Act. It is intended to allow for the financing of local road investments from the forestry fund. [[You're already doing it. You're already doing it quietly.]] It is only possible to co-finance. The decision will, of course, be taken by the Director-General of State Forests. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a litmus paper of the relationship between individual parliamentary clubs and members of local governments. [[Don't embarrass yourself. What a stupid thing to do!]] Today, all ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to support the local authorities in improving the state of the roads. [[Applause]] Helping local governments are not empty declarations, empty words, rhetoric, but concrete actions supporting counties, municipalities. [[But what actions? Words, words, words, sir.]] These specific actions are enshrined in the draft law. The adoption of this project will lead, as I have already stressed, to a breakthrough, to a radical improvement in the state of the roads in Poland. The main beneficiaries will, of course, be the drivers. There will be significant improvement. [[Drivers will save money on tires.]] Don't laugh, because if someone is laughing right now, it really violates this House's seriousness... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Did you ask the farmers? How much more will the harvest cost?]] ...is violating the seriousness of the matter I want to talk about, and I want to talk about improving security right now. [[The farmers will be happy.]] Any accident that doesn't happen and could happen because of the poor quality of the road, that's gonna be a solid contribution. [[Janosik, Janosik.]] [[Voice from the hall: Government limousines.]] Think a little bit. It's worth it sometimes. [[Applause]] [[And the prices of agricultural products?]] This will be a concrete contribution to improving the quality of life of Poles, because all of us, each of us, who ever in the family or among friends had a person who was the victim of a road accident, knows what a trauma it is. And you can't laugh about it, you just can't. Please, sir, don't do this. You're a young man, don't do that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What are you doing? It's a mess with the families of those who died in accidents. How dare you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u63	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u64	The comfort of travel will also improve. This is what the Poles expect. It's gonna go down, I've already mentioned it, the cost of running cars, because our car's gonna be a lot less bad. [[Tractors and combine harvesters gonna break down less, too?]] [[Voice from the room: Treadmills.]] [[Voice from the room: Comfort driving.]] I told you about the comfort. Incomprehensible will become often expressed in our country's opinion about cars, and it sounds like this: It is a great car, but not on Polish roads. In several years no one will understand what is going on, because Polish roads will be good. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Stop the boosters, really.]] The communication coherence of Poland will be improved, which will contribute to even economic development. This will be an impulse for local business development, and direct allocation of such large funds to road investments will benefit Polish small and medium-sized road companies, because they most often win tenders for construction or repair of local roads. [[Applause]] - not the big ones, the international ones, but the small ones, the medium ones, the Polish ones. It is worth mentioning at this moment the position of the National Road Chamber of Commerce of 10 July 2017 concerning... [[Very important.]] ...of this bill. The Association of Roads Associations, which carry out work on Polish roads, says: As an organisation involved in the activities of many bodies and actively involved in the work of Senate and Parliament committees, as well as experts' advice on activities aimed at optimising the implementation of road investments, operating at the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, we have repeatedly addressed the issues of ensuring a stable and stable and adequate level of financing of road infrastructure, both national and local. In view of the above, the Chamber supports the creation of a Self-Government Road Fund which, through stable local government funding, will affect their development and quality. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am convinced that the adoption of the bill will make, in a relatively short time, the poor quality of the roads just a sad memory... [[Just like after the PiS, it's gonna be a sad memory.]] ...and the term "Polish roads" will become synonymous with their excellent quality. [[You're gonna be ashamed of that speech.]] Our generation should make an effort to make up for the many years of neglect in this area. [[You don't know what you're saying.]] [[Who chose you for this speech? Who fingered you?]] This is one of the most important development challenges of Poland, which is why I ask the High House to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u65	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item... [[Corrigendum.]] No, sir, you will not be allowed to speak. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Without a doubt, public roads in Poland are not party, including we will all agree. [[Applause]] Yes? Yes or no? Good. [[The raise has your face, the raise has the face of the PiS.]] I will dedicate this slide to Mr Rutnicki. [[Show us, too.]] The cost of road accidents in Poland - 48 billion PLN. [[How embarrassing are you? How do you feel about families whose loved ones died in accidents?]] [[Show us, too.]] Do Members oppose PLN 5 billion... [[Half the accidents...]] ... 48 billion PLN. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Member, I present the next slide. In Poland, 3,000 people died on the roads in 2016. People. [[...in your reign.]] $3,000. People. [[How embarrassing are you?]] On municipal and district roads - nearly a thousand people. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[How embarrassing are you?]] And you say, "Let's not build roads." And you say, "Let's not fix holes." And you say, "Let's not build sidewalks." [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Don't lie to me.]] The opposition, ladies and gentlemen, is very afraid of this project. [[Don't lie to me.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] He is very afraid because, as Mr Dolata said, Europe will forget that Poland is driving on the roads that are broken. That's how it's gonna be. [[Yes, sir.]] If this fund comes, it will be. [[Applause]] [[Don't lie to me.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, will come with your uncles, with your elders to this fund for funds. [[Maybe you need to send money to the roads, not to protect the months.]] It's very good that the media is broadcasting this debate because it turns out... [[Very good.]] ...that the opposition today is against the wolves and against the old men. That's some information. [[Yours, yours.]] [[What are you talking about?]] Yes, they are against theirs; indeed you have a great achievement. Ladies and gentlemen, one more statistic. Unfortunately, it is sad, but I must say this: In this disgusting statistics of road fatalities, we are only losing to Romania in Europe, only with Romania. Are you interested in this statistics? Do you, ladies and gentlemen, know that... [[We know her.]] Minister, I'll talk to you at the end, Minister Grabarczyk, if you don't mind? [[You're welcome.]] I've got two and a half minutes left. Ladies and gentlemen, are you interested in this information? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I don't think... [[You have to tell the truth.]] ...because you don't want to talk about a very important problem that sounded not from Members of the Law and Justice, but from local government. We respond with this fund to the appeals of the Polish communes... [[It's like a bear.]] ... The Polish Districts Association. We respond to the appeal of the local government. This is a non-partisan act. It's not a public service bill, it's a very good project that's gonna solve a case that, ladies and gentlemen, you haven't done. You forgot. [[Applause]] [[What are you talking about?]] And one more note to all the adversaries. You repeat it like a mantra, you're talking about some kind of fuel charge. There's no fuel charge in this bill. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You didn't read it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, read literally, there's a fee... [[Road, road.]] It's expensive. Oh, the Member knows. The only one who knows. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Yes, that is your deception, sir. That's what cheating is all about.]] One of the only ones in the whole Platform Club found out - congratulations - because you're all talking about some new taxes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a great problem with mortality, accident. [[And there's a problem with your stealing.]] Who pays for accidents? You pay, we pay. Who's treating? Whose money are people treated for after accidents? The state pays. [[And who pays for Macierewicz's accidents? Society pays.]] Mr Rutnicki, please be aware of the cost of road accidents in Poland in the budget. [[Yes, sir. How much did you delete the government limo, and who's paying for it?]] [[Voice from the room: And the platform deleted how much?]] Good. And two more very important remarks. If you listen to these two comments, you will learn a lot about this bill, because I don't think any of you have read it yet. [[Come on, come on, come on, come on.]] So, yes, ladies and gentlemen. For the first time in history, we give 80 percent to our uncles. financing. It's never been like this. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Because you're taking the Poles.]] For the first time. We give local government, people... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] For the first time children to school in some municipalities in Podkarpacie, in Zachodniopomorskie will not go to school with moats, [[Applause]] They'll just walk down the sidewalk. Because you guys didn't build this sidewalk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] You are, ladies and gentlemen, very false. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And yell, louder, come on. Television's transmitting. Scream, scream, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Good-for-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u67	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u68	And the second point, ladies and gentlemen. There's never been a project like this, a fund that would allow your uncles to think not in terms of the financial year... [[No one's ever fooled a Pole like that before, you're right.]] [[You haven't built another kilometer of road.]] ...only a year, two or three years. And to you, Minister Grabarczyk, at the end. I'd like you to confirm with your authority... [[Voices from the hall: Time, time.]] ...which means European Directive 1999/ 62/EC. [[Don't invoke the directives, you don't like the directives.]] This directive makes it very clear that, unfortunately, the European Union - or steths - will force municipalities to abolish the tax on means of transport. What does that mean? [[It means your time is up.]] That means the municipalities will lose their own income. That means he's gonna lose his own income in the municipalities. [[Voice from the room: But time is up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u69	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u70	If that's the case, it's not enough that you don't want to... [[You're taking people's money.]] ...a fund for municipal and district roads, you want to weaken...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u72	...the municipalities of the future tax. [[Twelve and a half thousand. km built.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u73	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u74	Minister, refer to this. And you, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u76	...and you'll come to this fund with your uncles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u77	Thank you very much, sir. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask for some peace in the courtroom. Don't tell me if I'm prolonging time or not, because it's up to me to decide. I wish my emotions would go away. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And in what mode?]] With a formal request, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz submitted himself. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Okay, first of all, let's not scream out of this podium and calm down a little bit. [[Applause]] Secondly, Mr Rzonec spoke very much about road accidents, about the mortality of the victims of these accidents. This is a very important topic, but I would like to make one point. Fifteen times more people die in Poland every year because of smog. [[Applause]] Almost 50,000. people die from smog every year. Is this the subject of the High House? He doesn't. We have tabled a proposal, and this is a formal proposal to work on the creation of a special committee for the European Union. Fighting smog. If we want to talk about serious things, let this committee rise as soon as possible. The government isn't doing anything about it, it hasn't put in any solutions to limit emissions. What did he do? He has eliminated the Kawka programme, which was used for the exchange - from the national environmental fund - of kilns on the newer generation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the Member is taking up a serious debate on road safety, mortality, life protection, then let us also address the issue of smog, because it is not realized at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u79	Thank you very much, sir. Unfortunately, it was not a formal conclusion. You are welcome, Mr Grzegorz Schetyn. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not talking about smog, I'm talking about life, about the problem of the Poles you're creating, and about you, about your lie and your deception. This debate today is symbolic because it refers to the whole election campaign, to what you've been doing for the last eight years, to the lies you've been imposing on Poles. And today you're showing a real face. You cheated on the election campaign, and today you raise taxes. [[Applause]] And there is no government, Deputy Minister Shmit hidden under the bench. I'm not surprised he's ashamed of this project. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] But it's not just the Deputy Minister who's ashamed because you're ashamed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And there's no need to spread your hands. Only 66 of you signed off on this disgraceful project. [[Applause]] You're afraid of this project, you're afraid of Poles to look you in the eye. Shame. [[Disgraceful!]] And now, Mr Dolata. Who wrote this to you? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I really thought you were, I'm sorry you understood what you were saying and what you were reading. It's a shame, isn't it? [[Voice from the hall: Don't insult the envoy.]] Well, I really feel sorry for him. I mean, I'm insulting you because you're crooks. [[Applause]] You're crooks, because you raise taxes and you lie here -- you lie -- it's about security. [[You guys lie professionally.]] How can Mr Rozonec? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Along with District Attorney Piotrowicz... And where are you packing, Mr. District Attorney Peterovich? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I wanted to talk to you. You already told me. The credibility of your speech, Mr Rozonec... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's like you said about a wartime activist who was arrested, as D.A. Peterowicz helped him. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This is your credibility. [[Applause]] And today everyone sees it. You promised... [[Talk about the roads.]] ...you promised you wouldn't raise taxes, that you wouldn't... [[Ad rem.]] And you're actually trying to keep it because you're introducing new taxes. You're introducing new taxes. For all your fanabers, for your election frauds, for your inskills will be paid by Poles. [[Don't scare, don't scare.]] And that's a very measurable example of that. You guys did... [[And how many times did the Platform raise taxes?]] ...you have removed the VAT reduction, first of all, adopted by the last parliament, which means you have maintained the rate of 23%. You're back with her. That's the first tax raise. The second is the bank tax you introduced. You guys put in a bank tax. The interest rate on deposits has been reduced by 0.4%. This is your decision. 48 PLN additionally on each bill per year - electricity charge. You brought it in, too. You are forecasting another increase between 130 and 150 PLN this year. These are your suggestions. This is your expensive change. This is your Polish rule today. You raise taxes because you can't spend money. You can't realize... You can't do this. You can't use the road fund. You have money to repair the roads. No... [[Indebted to 65 billion.]] You've got the money. Of the 35 billion you spent less than 25 because you can't do it. You can't do this, and that's why... [[Grzegorz, show the camera you're laughing at it yourself.]] I remember in the election campaign earlier, I remember President Kaczyński with a canister, I remember all those circuses you were doing. Shame. [[Applause]] I mean, shame on you. I remember you showing how President Hofman, who was then responsible for PR, brought him into the store, stood with a basket, held 200 zlotys to pay, looked around, didn't know where to pay in the store. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] This is the whole truth about you, the truth about your cheating politics and the fact that you've deceived the Poles because it's the truth. And today... [[Gregory, what are you talking about?]] ...I'm talking about you. I'm talking about you guys, about your face. [[Talk about the roads.]] I'm telling you. I'm talking about cowardice. [[The crooks are the Platform.]] Mr Rutnicki said: 12.5 thousands. One kilometer of local roads that we rebuilt, you renovated. [[Voice from the hall: You are the certified liars.]] You can't spend money. You guys are losers. Leave it alone, stop doing this. [[Applause]] [[But it's specific.]] They're all concrete. You must know that... [[What, the president was in the store?]] ...that it is enough to spend well what you have, what you should spend on renovating these roads. This program is, I can leave it. Call him whatever you want, call him, just do the show. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why everything... [[That's why it's over.]] ...all I wanted to say tonight is that I would like every Pole, owner of every 20 million cars, anyone who will tank and leave... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...the distributor, along the way to pay the bill for more expensive fuel... [[Voice from the room: There will be no more expensive fuel.]] ...he remembered about you, about your election lie, so he could see President Kaczyński and your government. So he can see you. And you're gonna pay for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u81	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u82	That's why I wanted to file a motion for rejection at first reading of your bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much. Please, Mr... [[Your Marshal...]] [[There's no correction. There isn't.]] Here you go, one minute. [[Criticism is not a correction.]] Excuse me, Mr President, he spoke to the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Schetyna asked me who wrote this to me. I could ask the president or the Platform Club why no one wrote you anything to make it substantive. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And you had to devote most of your speech to ad personam's arguments. [[What's the correction?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u85	Mr President, there was supposed to be a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u86	Antoni Słomiński said: [[A transcript, a transcript.]] ...is ugly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u87	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u88	It doesn't seem right for you, Mr. Chairman. [[Congratulations on your performance, Mr. Suski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u89	Mr President, this was not a correction procedure. You abused that mode. Please, Mr Kuba Rutnicki, with a formal proposal. [[You might disagree, but you have to...]] But I'm asking you to make this a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I, first of all, have a formal motion, but before I go to it, I have an appeal to Mr Dolata. You only told lies for an hour. You haven't made a mistake four times by mentioning the name of Grzegorz Schetin and stressing that the government of the Civic Platform has built 12.5,000. One kilometer of scheming. That's right. [[Don't be ridiculous, sir.]] That's right, but really, if we're asking who wrote it to you... [[Don't be ridiculous.]] ...really Gomulka or Gierek could learn from you. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Poles, do not buy PiS crap because you will pay for everything at the gas station. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u91	Thank you very much. I wanted to point out that this was not a formal conclusion. Please, Mr Paweł Kukiz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, You know, to start this report with the words "I have the honour" and, in guess, the looting, the presentation of the project of another looting of citizens, that's some kind of mockery of people. [[Voice from the hall: How's the looting? Safety isn't looting.]] This is the first, basic thing. [[Applause]] The conclusions that I'm saying about PiS after your speeches are that they owe this raise... to the Civic Platform. OK. [[No, it's okay.]] I quote, "Somewhere these drugs disappeared and weren't on the road." Well, I'm seeing some inconsistencies here, because then why would you allow Mr. Nowak to get millions of dollars to build roads in Ukraine? That's the first thing. [[Applause]] You're looking for money for roads. You're looking for them in taxpayers' pockets, and this money is in Misiewicz's offices. That money's in over-the-tops... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...official officer at the Chief of Police... [[In Macierewicz's limo.]] ...at the Chief Command of the State Fire Department, in an overgrown office. This money is in the new BMW for PLN 1.5 million per piece. You have talked a lot about accidents and the need to modernise these roads due to the increasing number of accidents, as well as about savings if you behave preventively by building new roads. I - as a guess - know that here it is difficult to disagree with this, because less of these limousines, i.e. our limousines, mostly citizens, you're gonna be crashing. Now yes, 8 years - 8 years ago - when the Platform increased the price of fuel, today's Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Mr Adam Hofman in front of the cameras gave fiery speeches accusing Donald Tusk of ruining the economy, the heartless drainage of Poles' pockets. [[Voice from the room: Fuel was 6 PLN each, you had to act.]] I also remember President Kaczyński leaving with a canister and opposed it, demanding a reduction in petrol prices. I wanted to take the can today, too, but just like the communes, ladies and gentlemen, I filled all the canisters with fuel just in case, and for safety reasons I couldn't bring them in. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr President, at the time the fuel was 6 PLN.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's already over 50%. fuel prices are taxes. After this program of your petrol+ their share will be over 60%. When Tusk raised VAT for Poles, he took 5 billion PLN out of their pocket with one cut. You people are going to take out exactly the same amount right now, plus VAT, of course. Let me tell you this: if it were not for tax-draining citizens' pockets, a thieving socialist state, it would cost around 2 PLN in Poland. That Mrs Merkel wants to finish off Polish transport companies, we know that, don't we? Do we know or don't we know? We know. [[We know.]] This is what the German trade unions are demanding because German companies are losing competition with Polish companies. [[Yes, sir.]] And now you're joining them. And be ashamed of it. [[Applause]] Kukiz.15 requests that the petrol+ project be rejected at first reading. [[German club.]] It's about throwing it in the trash. Thank you very much. So is socialism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u93	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u94	Wait a minute, I'm gonna raise my desktop and prep a position. It's a symbol of tax increases. On average, on one passenger car the increase will result in a loss of approx. 500 PLN in the Polish household budget, for each car, even the first in the family. [[On what course?]] [[Voice from the room: A month?]] The price of oil is dynamic and changes from day to day, as is the price of the dollar. Either way, oil's gonna be more expensive in a minute. The question is, are you going to say, "We're going to lower." No, then we'll forget about it, because you're just gonna say that the price goes up, it's normal, there's no other way. Why the idea of another raw material tax, which is so much taxed? This is 60% excise duty, VAT, fuel levy, reserve fee, now a toll, additional toll for highways, transport tax, more expensive OC. In a moment, another project and an increase in the price of reviews. Having a car is becoming more and more luxurious. Maybe you guys just want us not to drive cars, so the limo can go ahead and race, or we can ride bikes? I'd love to ride bikes, but there's no bike roads. Why don't you guys tax your MP's allowances or your party subsidies? It's a lot of money, isn't it? Now the question is: Why will the poorest pay the most? 60% more will be paid by the poor who drives the car to gas, because the car with the same power burns much more gas than oil, oil - 7 l, gas - 11. 60% More. [[Voice from the hall: But it's cheaper.]] You're hitting your electorate, the poorest ones who are gonna pay that tax the most. [[But oil cars can't be converted to gas.]] But what else could you expect from you? Now it turns out that PiS can count and will update this inflation tax. And the free amount - frozen, the cost of income - frozen for 10 years, you haven't done anything about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're talking about 5 billion zlotys. What 5 billion? Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, up to 1 billion PLN will be allocated to local roads. I would love to explain more, but unfortunately there isn't much time. That's why maybe in a nutshell... I'm going to present a brief piece of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u95	But, sir, your time is up. [[Mr Pard plays the recording: This summer, at a meeting that wasn't supposed to be...]] Mr... [[...some crew is going after your wallets.]] Mr... [[Surprise, new tax...]] Mr President, you are welcome to leave the platform. [[...fuel increase, madness and betrayal.]] [[Your marshal, time. Let's not make jokes.]] Please don't. [[Soon gasoline plus at every gas station.]] Please leave the podium, please. [[Hold on to your pockets.]] [[Applause]] Mr... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Paul, you could have sung, it would have been more interesting.]] Please, Mr Richard Petru.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's gone because he's ashamed. The Minister of Transport isn't here because he's ashamed. [[If anyone's to be ashamed, it's you.]] You promised Poles, and now you can't finance it. 5 billion won't go on the roads, but normally on budget expenditure. You lied when you were in opposition, you lied when you were in power. Ladies and gentlemen, on average, the Pole is refueling 1300 litres, which means it comes out by 350 zlotys a year more because of your governments. Everyone will pay PLN 350 for this tax raise. And if someone owns a transport company... [[Who did the math?]] Simple math, multiply. If someone owns a transport company, the truck will cost them $10,000. PLN per year more. [[On what course?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is all... The transport costs and the price of petrol are an important element of inflation. We'll pay more for everything, for milk, for bread, for meat, for chocolate, for alcohol, everything will be more expensive as a result of your good change. [[And the tours?]] [[Voice from the hall: Tours too.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the worst part is you're just lying. That's how you lie. Now you're suggesting it won't have any effect. Let me remind you of your guru, who recently, in 2011, said yes... [[Richard Petru plays the recording: More than half the price of petrol is tax. The government can reduce them. I'd lower my excise duty, which would lower the price of gasoline, but that takes courage and responsibility.]] Jarosław Kaczyński. Did you hear that? [[Voice from the room: No.]] To lower gas prices, you need courage and responsibility. [[Gas was six zlotys each.]] [[I didn't hear you, Marshal.]] Jarosław Kaczyński talked about this in 2011. He was talking about lowering the excise price, and now you're raising it. Ladies and gentlemen, notice one thing: this is another tax you're raising. Morawiecki - liar. He said a week and a half ago at your congress that, fortunately, all of your promises are not financed by tax increases. What's it really like? You're raising your excise duty on fuel now. But earlier, ladies and gentlemen, you've increased your contribution to the Social Security Office. From 1 January each Polish entrepreneur pays 50 PLN more for ZUS. This is 600 PLN per year. This is another tax you've introduced. 100 PLN per year we pay more for energy from 1 July 2016. This is another effect of good change, expensive change. And it's your fault. Ladies and gentlemen, you were supposed to lower your VAT. You promised to reduce the VAT after the Platform raised it to 23%. Where's the VAT reduction? Why isn't the Prime Minister here? She promised and lied. Every time - every time - you cheat Poles. I would expect Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki to come out to this pulpit and apologize for the words he said at your congress a week and a half ago that it wasn't tax. And you know what your Minister Błaszczak and Prime Minister Szydło said a few years ago? That always - always - is that the increase in excise duty on fuel translates into an increase in prices for Poles. You hit the poorest, you hit Polish companies, which are barely actually ending up. Ladies and gentlemen, why can't you... See how much money comes from excise duties in general to the budget - PLN 30 billion. And that's why we only spend $6 billion on road repairs. What are you doing with the other 24 billion? Where do you spend that money? [[ZUS.]] So you're financing... The ZUS will have even more expenses this year because... [[ZUS of what? Talk to me, smart-ass.]] ...hundreds of thousands of pensioners will retire early because you have reduced the retirement age, thus reducing pensions to a hunger level for many Polish women. Mr President, by PLN 1500 Polish women will have lower pensions [[Applause]] by a government of PiS diletts who can't count. [[Voice from the room: OFE.]] Ladies and gentlemen, notice one thing... Why can't you find the money where it is? [[Get down on the ground.]] Why can't you eliminate... We have the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, Agricultural Property Agency, Agricultural Market Agency. Why can't you put it together? Why can't you connect the ZUS to the KRUS by destroying a huge army of officials? Why can't you look for savings where they are? How much does the 500+ program administration cost? Almost PLN 1 billion. That's the money thrown away. That's why you're running out of money for your current expenses. Ladies and gentlemen, you are acting like a Game. Debt grows and inflation grows. Today inflation is 1.5% , already 1.5% I'll remind you, we had a negative... I mean, prices were down. With your government, prices are already rising, and they're going to grow even more, and it's going to end up like Game. You won't be able to finance your election promises, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and inflation will be so high that Poles will live more expensive thanks to expensive change. [[Voice from the room: No more lies.]] Apologize. Yeah, stop lying. [[Go to Madeira.]] I appeal to Prime Minister Morawiecki to get up here and to Kaczyński to come here and apologize to the Poles for his lies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a beautiful land long ago, after years of electoral failure, the aged sorcerer finally gained the desired power. [[Room voice: Oh, PSL, Bury.]] It's a good change, they used to repeat the spells of all the knights and squires, and the sad princess, to whom the sorcerer cast a spell, in the amok spread the celestial visions straight out of the blue briefcase. [[Applause]] Ducats enough, everything will be - she says - because the budget is made of rubber, so you can stretch and stretch it. She said that for two years and finally Trash. No more fairy tales, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] The budget is not made of rubber, the princess cannot charm, the blue file of the mouse ate, and the promises in it turned out to be a momentary, [[Applause]] That's a low-cost loan for a crooked percentage. And the term of office isn't over yet, and we already have to pay our bills. And they won't be small, they won't be. For starters, a holiday gift for Poles, a gift for farmers just for the harvest... [[Voice from the room: September.]] ...and a gift for Polish transporters and entrepreneurs, a gift that will kill them. The German government doesn't have to kill them, the Polish government will kill them with the help of members of the PiS. [[Applause]] 25 gr per litre of petrol, on average 20 PLN per tanking, and more than once, because the assumptions of this law clearly state that the additional fee will increase annually - depending on the price increase in the economy. And why will prices increase in the economy? Because the price of fuel affects all the other prices. If the fuel's gonna be more expensive, then services, food, goods, everything's gonna go a long way. [[Applause]] Question: "What's all this for?" After all, at such low oil prices in the world, you should lower fuel prices. PiS says that money's gonna go on the road. It's bullshit, fake news, or, if you like, another fairy tale. [[We'll check.]] Why don't you spend at least half of the profit from the National Bank of Poland on roads, as suggested by the Polish People's Party? [[Applause]] This is about PLN 5 billion. And there's something else. If you really wanted to spend this money on roads, you wouldn't have taken 200 million PLN from the last budget just for local roads - for local roads. And I would like to remind you that the real inventor of those, as you call it, was Jan Łopata, a Member of the Polish People's Party. [[Applause]] Dear knights and squires, in this fairy tale you are absolutely unbelievable. Also wrong is the one who thinks that this money will go to 500+. [[That's not true.]] If that were the case, PiS would not have rejected the amendment of the Polish People's Party last week introducing the principle of zloty for zloty into this program. Now that we know the money's not gonna go for it, what are we gonna do? The answer was interesting, more than a year ago in Otwock. In March in this beautiful city, Mr. President Duda, having finished the ski season, came to the party rally and spoke, and I quote, "Home of the country, please return it to us, Lord. That's what he said. [[Applause]] So? And today the prayer was answered. The human masters have presented the bill. After milking companies of the State Treasury, the milking of Poles will begin on an unprecedented scale. Nomen omen example of Wojciech Jasiński, President of Orlen, who, according to the media, received nearly PLN 3.5 million for 2016. [[And Janek Bury?]] What's the reward for? For your faithful service in the PZPR or maybe being president of the Silver Company? And that's just the tip of the iceberg, and I could swap and replace it like that. Here's a real picture of the PiS government - money and positions. [[Applause]] That's what you need extra money for. Finally, it is worth asking: Why should drivers, Polish drivers pay for all this? The answer is simple: Because PiS doesn't care - none of them fuel. When was the last time you gasped your car, your car for your money, Mr Kaczyński? [[Applause]] Why don't you guys give us a hint? They won't give us a hint, because the ones sitting next to them have their own limousines. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You drive around - Poles see it. Keep up the good work... [[And the Member doesn't, right?]] ...they'll drive you on wheelbarrows so fast you won't even know.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u100	The Polish People's Party is against this harmful law for Poles at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Circle of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u102	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In this debate, I think all arguments have already been made, and personal, and very emotional, and economical, but Mr Bejda, with his priest, has led me to start with another literary metaphor, another literary inspiration. Well, Antoni Czechow, an outstanding writer, a Russian playwright, said that in a well-structured drama if a shotgun appears in the first act, he must fire in the third act. And you actually have a policy according to that principle. In the first act there appeared 500+, in the second reduction of the retirement age, it is no wonder that in the third - very soon the third one came - this rifle fired and new taxes appeared, which were not to be. Shotgun shoots, the first victims are ordinary Poles, mostly pensioners and pensioners... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...because the increase in the fee, the price of gasoline will feel in the increase in the prices of food products and the most necessary services they can barely afford today. But you will also feel the election result, which I sincerely wish you. In fact, this project, which you have submitted, also reveals another essence of your policy, a policy based on falsehood and hypocrisy - falseness in making false promises during elections and hypocrisy in avoiding their implementation, in their non-fulfilment. And I can tell you, you probably know this joke, he's just making a career in Poland with the following joke: Why does the PiS raise the fuel tax when the president of this party said six years ago that when he's in power, he's going to reduce this tax? Yeah, because we have a record budget surplus right now. This is the essence of how you act -- first you make false promises, and then you do not even try to fulfill them, but, in truth, you try to get away with these promises. What kind of promises are they? That there will be no raises - I have already mentioned this quote from Mr Kaczyński, it is possible to quote Mr Błaszczak and then Mr Hofman. The abolition of the fossil tax, which Mrs Szydło, then the candidate for the Prime Minister, personally promised KGHM employees... [[Voice from the hall: Who raised it?]] ...at the electoral rally in Lubin on 6 October 2015. Promise to reduce VAT to 22% which you formulated at the program congress in Katowice. The promise to reduce VAT on children's clothing, which he formulated more than two years ago and which Mr Andrzej Duda, then presidential candidate, argued in the election campaign. It's just part of the promises you haven't fulfilled - financial, tax. And what are the franchises to whom you promised to pay the franc loans at the price of their borrowing? Andrzej Duda promised this as presidential candidate and president-elect. And what is the result? We receive letters from desperate and disappointed, angry franchise who say yes: The ruling postpones the solution in time, and we, our families and our children no longer have time. In a dramatic situation there are those of us who cannot afford to pay excessive instalments and who must face the spectrum of chamber auction. I want to say one more thing about one more promise that doesn't require a lot of money that you've made and that you're not doing either. It is a promise to issue referendums if a sufficient number of Poles request such a referendum on the social issue. I ask you one more time: Is more than 900,000, almost a million signatures that's enough? We think so. And that is why I remind you once again - scandalously for more than 2 months the Marshal has kept a request for an educational referendum in the freezer, and for 3 weeks this bill cannot be considered by the Legislative Commission, which, among other things, cannot be considered. I'm a member. He will be considered at the last session of the Sejm, when there will be no time for the referendum to actually be realized. This is how you fulfill your commitments, how you fulfill your promises in practice. Let me tell you this: If you had the honor, at least this referendumal promise would have been fulfilled. If you had the honour, you would not present this project today - regardless of the fact that Mr Rzońc, the applicant, wants to call it a fuel levy, it is in fact an excise duty increased by 25%. And you certainly wouldn't propose a procedure that rules out public consultation. 'Cause you know what these consultations are about. What's the matter with you? The result would not be what the roadmen counting on contracts write, not what the obedient president of PKN Orlen writes, but what every specialist indicates today: the result of the introduction of this toll and the de facto increase of excise duty will be an increase in the prices of goods and services, on which the least wealthy, the poorest Poles will suffer. I want to say this: [[♪ The bell ♪]] As near the European Union of Democrats, we are not opposed to spending money on road renovation and reconstruction, but do it from this budget surplus, not from the tax you impose on Poles. That is why we are in favour of rejecting this project at first reading, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u103	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Circle of the Posel Republicans.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Elections! On behalf of the Republican Circle, I have the honour to present my position on the Act on the Self-Government Road Fund. The Act introduces a new toll. This fee is another tax. In theory, this tax will be paid by entrepreneurs, by the operators introducing motor fuels to the market. In practice, it will ultimately be paid by consumers. Consumers, who? Firstly, the drivers - they will pay more for petrol and gas - and secondly, everyone else. Why all of us? Because if it's expensive fuel, it's expensive transport, and if it's expensive transport, it's expensive everything. So the toll will charge us all, there is no other option. The prices will go up. And the government? The government whispers reality and claims that this is not an increase in fuel prices. As Janusz Korwin-Mikke once said from this speaker, such a government simply fucks stupid. As a result of this law, Poles will pay 25 gr gross more for a litre of fuel. Those are the hard facts. If it weren't for the new tax, we'd all be paying less for the fuel if we saw the fall in fuel prices. Road infrastructure in Poland really requires investment, there is no doubt about it. Investment at the level of national roads, motorways and investments in local roads, which are actually often regretted, are needed. [[Exactly.]] Unfortunately, this cannot be done at the expense of further reaching into citizens' pockets. [[But they don't want to build themselves.]] After all, billions of zlotys per year are already entering the state budget for excise duties on fuel. It was the money that was intended to be used to build and repair roads. [[And the U.S.S.S.?]] Unfortunately, in the vast majority, this money does not go to the National Road Fund today, but to the state budget, and there it is used for various other purposes. Dear applicants, there will always be insufficient water in the hole bucket. The solution is to seal the system and rationalise expenditure, including cutting costs. Yeah, cutting costs... [[That's what we're doing.]] ...because the state can't cost citizens so much. The solution is certainly not to continue looting citizens. I would like to remind you that in 2011 President Jarosław Kaczyński commented, otherwise very rightly, just the issue of fuel taxation. At that time, the high petrol prices were determined by the fact that the excise duty on fuel should normally be reduced. He also stressed that such action would require the rulers to be courageous and responsible. Today, PiS politicians want to increase fuel taxation. Where did your courage and responsibility go? Is it really possible that you are hoping that voters will not remember that it is thanks to the Members of the Law and Justice that they will have to pay 25 gr gross more for fuel? As Republicans, we are strongly against this project at first reading. At the same time, we encourage all Members of the United Right to do so, as well as Members of the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Even Cymanski, you won't have anything to say because you're gonna have to lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u105	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Sanocki, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear colleagues of the PiS! I see the positions are divided. The opposition is against, the pissants are bringing in this bill. The arguments of the applicant should actually convince me... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...and I think they've convinced you because if the kids are dying, if the road is in bad shape, then you really need to pick it up. But I ask: Why so little? Why only 20 gr per litre? Let's raise it by 2 zlotys. No, we can't, guys, we can't. [[100 PLN.]] It's ethics, morality won't let us if the kids die. Do you want the children to die? [[Voice from the room: No.]] I don't think so. And to make the roads open? [[Voice from the room: No.]] That's two zlotys, huh? I suggest we move on, and I suggest that the PiS colleagues review their proposal: 2 zlotys. [[Voice from the room: Who will give more?]] And seriously, ladies and gentlemen, we are one of the most taxed nations in the world and in Europe. That's not true what you said. That's not true. [[That's the data.]] 19% VAT is in Germany. In Germany, wages are much higher. The German can buy 10 times as much gasoline as the Pole. [[What about CIT and PIT in Germany?]] And the U.S.S.S.? What about the ZUS, Taddy? And the U.S.S.S.? [[Joy in the Chamber]] We can talk. Yes. [[Applause]] [[19%.]] Ladies and gentlemen, taxes in Poland are high... But, fellows, I speak kindly, I do not invent from those who promised and did not promise. [[We know.]] Taxes in Poland are too high, because the citizen bears the costs of a disabled country. [[Applause]] 9 billion in this budget, which you adopted in the column room, went to the so-called. active forms of combating unemployment, which are fiction, which are drinking water, throwing away money. [[Applause]] We maintain a state structure that is completely redundant. What's it for, I ask, for example. such shopping center for the judiciary, for which we pay 8 million PLN. Why do you need it today? Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow PiS, start with this -- you rule, you take responsibility -- that you will review the state structure. It cannot be that in a country so taxed, tax can be raised freely. I also draw your attention to the fact that this tax increase is a confession by you to political failure. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, I have to tell you and I want to tell you one more thing: election doesn't win, election loses. The platform lost the election, you won, but it was them, most of all they earned to lose. Today, when you take this step, you take this step in this direction to lose the next election. I'm distracted, and I'm asking you to withdraw this bill because it's just... Let's start by tidying up the state structure, not by pushing a citizen who's a terrible tax burden. And if you'll excuse me, this demagogue about children, about roads... I don't think you believe what you're saying, sir. I ask you to respect and take us seriously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u107	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, Law and Justice, is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u108	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I decided to take the floor on a bill that upsets millions of Poles, including me. This bill is evil, anti-human and anti-Citizen. Therefore, from this point on, I would like to appeal to my colleagues in Law and Justice, to the leadership of Law and Justice, so that you withdraw your signatures under this law. [[Applause]] This law introduces many price increases, ranging from fuel to food and transport services. [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Great courage!]] [[What's going on?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be like the Civic Platform during a campaign that said one thing and did something different. She said before the election that she wouldn't raise her retirement age and then raise her retirement age. We in the campaign made it clear that we wouldn't raise taxes. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: They didn't say anything, it came out in the middle.]] That is why I appeal to my colleagues: You do not vote [[♪ The bell ♪]] For this bill, don't raise taxes, I will be against this law at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Mr Dolata, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened a lot when the Prime Minister in this speaker said, "You don't have to steal and the money will be there." So what I'm asking is, why are you stealing? [[Applause]] You know exactly that the increase in fuel will cause all the increases one by one, it's food prices, transport prices, etc. But I'm going to talk about 500+, which you're so proud of, that the people who got 500+, in their time, they sighed at it, bought cars, and today they're not going to have gas. Why? Because 500+ doesn't have revalorisation. There isn't. These money won't come in, and it doesn't add to it, but it goes down, which means they're about to be able to buy a kilo of sausage and nothing else. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u111	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u112	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In 2010, Minister Błaszczak and Prime Minister Szydło organized a conference at a gas station, during which the Minister warned against increasing fuel prices, claiming that this entails an increase in prices for other products, including food. I therefore ask you kindly to answer the question: What has changed in this regard? Doesn't the higher fuel price today translate into higher prices for other products? And also from the same conference. The Prime Minister said that when Jarosław Kaczyński was Prime Minister, due to the situation on the world markets, the price of petrol increased and then he found a solution. He met with the chiefs of fuel companies and there it was agreed that you could reduce the fuel margin so that Poles would pay for filling their cars less. Therefore, I ask you to answer this question: Has the Prime Minister taken this solution into account? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the last Congress of Law and Justice, Mr Kaczyński and Prime Minister Morawiecki said what a wonderful economic situation this is in our country. And in 2011 Mr Kaczyński showed such a canister. And with respect to this canister, he said 50%. fuel prices These are taxes and they need to be reduced. Mr Kaczyński, I appeal to you from this place, please lower these taxes, not increase them. Now I'm going to quote some data on how much more they pay. Poles for fuel, if this harmful act - and as you can see, not all Members of the PiS support it - will enter into force. If the average car burning is 9 l, 25 thousand a year. The Pole will pay more 574 PLN. And if the combustion is about 11 l, that's 25 grand already. We will pay more by PLN 701 a kilometer. We're talking about this fuel plus project. I'd be tempted to call it fraud plus, even stealing plus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir. We're working fast today.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u116	I didn't know, Marshal, it's going fast. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, under the cover of the PiS vacation he wants to steal 5 billion zlotys from Poles. Question: "What happened?" What happened that you've been raising prices for everything for the last two years? And I'm surprised at the justification, the one I heard today, because such a stupid justification is not heard here in this room. That's why we raise the price of fuel because it's low. So let's move on, let's look at what else has a lower price in Europe and raise the price of everything. We picked up... There'll probably be water in a minute. We picked up the gas last week. The power's up. There's another power increase bill waiting. I appeal to the PiS Members: do not withdraw from this project, leave it, [[Applause]] Because it's a good project. Leave this project alone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They didn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u117	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask: is it true that after the implementation of the construction programme so-called. Schetynówki remained to pay 50 billion PLN under the so-called. Rolling debt? Is it true that particularly many road accidents with fatal outcome and serious health loss occur on municipal and district roads due to their poor condition? Do fuel prices depend primarily on the global market situation? [[Yes, sir.]] Will an increase in local government subsidies - up to 80% of the costs in the poorest municipalities - make it easier to change the state of these roads in these municipalities? I would also like to ask about the consequences of possible repression of Poland by the European Union [[♪ The bell ♪]] To a bad state of the road. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u119	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u120	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In their opinion, the Sejm Analysis Office's lawyers made it clear that, although the draft refers to a fee, the fee must be regarded as an indirect tax. Meanwhile, on 7 April 2016, Minister Adamczyk assured on one of the televisions: neither the government nor the Ministry of Infrastructure plans to change the fuel levy. On August 26, 2016, Prime Minister Beata Szydło on Twitter informed Poles: Raising taxes is not a good way for economic development, so we will not do it. I have a question for PiS politicians: Why did you trick Poles again by lying to them that there would be no new taxes? Why, if the Polish economy is doing so well, there are better VAT revenues, do you want to drain Poles' pockets? Is it true that the introduction by PiS of this new tax will increase prices of all goods and services for Poles? And here I appeal to our compatriots, using the words of Adam Hofman. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from 2010: The PiS team is going after your wallets, hold on to your pockets. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u121	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In today's debate, we have all found that the EU average is at least 50% the fuel tax. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we looking at bad patterns? In the United States, this average is 12%. And that's the pattern we're supposed to pursue. 12%. Laffer's curve is clear: raising taxes does not mean that money is coming - economic law, I year of study. Let us remember this principle and apply it. Second thing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are creating a fund that is actually an abstract-theoretical fund, because if 50% of the road toll is to go into this fund, I ask why not 100%. If it's a local government fund, and you're doing it 50%. It means you're creating... [[I was translating.]] ...a new creation, an administrative being with an army of officials who will eat taxpayers' money. That's another line. Negative opinion on the bill. The National Association of Road Transport Employers and International Road Carriers Association in Poland are on them. Polish Chamber of Commerce for Automotive Transport and Forwarding - also for them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, everyone is saying clearly: this will kill Polish transport. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u123	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate Mr Rzepecki, because the look on your face was simply priceless during this speech. [[Applause]] One thing: lies, lies, lies. You cheated that you wouldn't raise taxes - raise taxes. You're saying it's not a tax, it's the Self-Government Road Fund - fraud. You said that on self-government roads - it turns out only 50%. Wherever you go, it's just one big lie. If you're short of money for anything, for roads, etc., why don't you introduce a tax on the electoral lie? It will really be a very reasonable tax. He'll have two benefits. He's gonna fund the budget, and Law and Justice are gonna go bankrupt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: How's the real estate?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u126	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rozonec! Let us build roads, build roads from the state budget, and this year especially from this budget surplus, which is, not from another tax and spoiling of Poles. Unemployment is decreasing, revenues are rising to the state budget, and the PiS party wants to take about PLN 5 billion from its citizens. The increase in fuel prices will hit Polish farmers the most. So the question is: Does the government provide compensation for this professional group? Question two. Last year the amount of PLN 60 million was planned for the construction and renovation of district and communal roads in 2017 in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. Unfortunately, at the conclusion stage, it turned out that only PLN 48 million is available. You took 12 million off the budget for road repairs for other purposes, and today you're pretending to be great road defenders. What did you take the money for? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And when will you give them back to the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship so that we can really build municipal and district roads? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of lack of funds for the construction and renovation of district and municipal roads has been a problem that has not always been resolved since local governments exist. Personally, I recall the discussion about the state and the possibility of a thorough renovation of the district roads in Puławy district, where the comparison of financial opportunities and needs related to the network of roads showed that in order to repair such roads, it would take many dozens of annual budgets of the district management board of roads, so the proposed act, I believe, but hope that the lack of power connected with the often catastrophic state of municipal and district roads will be broken. I am glad that foreigners, users of these roads, would contribute to the construction of Polish roads, because so far only we have contributed to these roads. My question: How much can you estimate the amounts paid by people from abroad? The second point that was raised here is that this Self-Government Road Fund would replace the previous one. Is it gonna be [[♪ The bell ♪]] did it mean a real increase in this funding also for each county? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u129	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u130	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You promised you wouldn't raise taxes, but you're going to back off this proposal quickly if you want to reach into the driver's pocket. Your project assumes that, on average, within a year, drivers will pay up to 500 PLN more for fuel. Then why are you doing this when it's not supposed to be like this? Already today, the tax costs in fuel are very high, they reach more than half, which is excise duty, fuel levy, etc., so why do you want to increase it? Instead of financing road renovations in the way it has been done so far, you reach into the driver's pockets of PLN 5 billion. One more key issue needs to be highlighted. If you promised that there would be no tax increases, then refrain from it because not only drivers will lose it, but all Poles, because higher fuel costs are higher transport costs, and higher transport costs are higher prices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] products in shops. This law should be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u131	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My friends, this bill is bad, and you know it. He is angry because it does not affect only people who own a car and who will spend up to 500 PLN per year more on petrol. This also affects the economy as a whole, the logistics, the supply of goods, i.e. products in shops will be more expensive, because they must be more expensive. You're explaining that you're adding a 25 gr fuel charge because you want to build roads to make it safer. Did you analyze the number of accidents caused by the bad road condition? Not so much compared to everyone else, and that's probably what my friend will be talking about. But you're trying to throw in, actually rake citizens' money to cover these roads to make things better. You guys want some substantive questions? There you go. So, if you're going to take 25 grams per litre -- for now, because inflation is going to increase, so this raise is going to be bigger -- that means, for example. Such a municipality of Radośl nad Sanem in Podkarpacie, which eight years waits for the road, will have it faster? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, building roads is necessary, there is no doubt here. Unfortunately, the project contains records that cause drivers to be deceived. First scam. You promised the Poles you wouldn't raise taxes, so what? That's another example of you lying. Second scam. Already 1 billion PLN finances local government roads. It is vain to look for this billion in the new fund, which means that it will be able to cover the budget deficit. The drivers will cover your hand again. Third scam. Unclear criteria for divisions and, in principle, the absence of those criteria at the level of the law. These criteria will only be established by the Minister. That means they'll get their money. Fourth scam. You claim that the increase in fuel will not result in increases in stations, increases in goods and services, while in every commodity, in every service 10% This is what transport costs are - Poles will pay for it thanks to the PiS. And a fifth scam. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're saying it's a small raise. Ask the transport industry business, they'll tell you what the real problems are. This raise is gonna make a lot of them...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u135	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u136	... He's just gonna fall. I suggest you go with Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u137	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u138	Let's set up road financing, road construction and renovations...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u139	Mr President, please stop asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u140	...and let's make it happen that the fuel tax money is going to be spent on the roads. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u141	Please try to follow the time, because we have a lot of questions. Please, Mr Mieczysław Baszko, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are not against the construction of roads, as Mr PiS says, presenting the statement of his club. The Member says that the draft law on the Self-Government Road Fund is a non-political project, but what does it say next? I listen with astonishment - only about the construction in Podkarpackie Voivodeship. They're skipping the other voivodships. I'm asking where. Voivodship Podlaskie or Warmińsko-Mazurskie or other voivodships. [[You weren't paying attention.]] Why the government... That's what Mr. Rozonek said, the applicant, not the rapporteur... [[But I was also talking about...]] Remember, because I'm telling the truth. Why is the government cheating Poles? [[Applause]] At the recent PiS Congress, Vice President Morawiecki made a public promise that the government would not raise taxes. I propose to the government: It is best to allocate funds from the profit of the National Bank of Poland, it would be a much better solution. And the question is: the Prime Minister had a blue file at the time of the exposé. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was there this tax increase project that we're talking about today? Did the PiS know about this? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u143	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The project I am looking forward to is positive, and in view of the numerous inaccuracies and doubts that arise in the media space regarding its content, I would like to ask the applicant to answer the following questions. In connection with the content of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Fund's financial plan for 2 projects will provide for a rigid breakdown of the funds that can be used per voivodship? If so, will these top-down limits be able to be modified during the implementation of this plan? Are the voivods presenting proposals to the competent minister, lists of tasks to be financed by the Fund, as referred to in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of this project, will they have knowledge of the maximum amount provided for in the financial plan of the fund for financing infrastructure projects in a particular voivodship? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, head of the President of Kaczyński! All this time you said there was money for roads. You lied. You said you'd build more roads and cheaper. You lied. There's no more or cheaper. Now you've found a way to reach into every Pole's pocket. What do we see and hear in justification? That it will not be any damage in the pockets of Poles, that it is for Poles' sake, that it is really epochal progress. One of my predecessors said that the justification was stupid. I would say this: Poles will not buy this justification. It's not stupid, it might be suitable for Mazury Cabaret Night, maybe for another place like this. It's not real. That's another lie. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's not very nice, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u148	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I want to congratulate Łukasz Rzepecki. [[Applause]] This is the strength of youth that has entered this Sejm. Lucky she did. The boy showed he had a moral spine. Now I appeal to you from law and justice. If you don't want to be ordinary puppets and you want to prove that you also have these spines, support Kukiz15's motion to reject the project at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u149	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Szydło often says that it is enough not to steal, but enough for everything. What do you call this project you put together in the Sejm? It's a bit of a racket. The racket you're trying to pull off to rip off the Poles. On the one hand, you collect PLN 6 billion and on the other hand you want to add 1 billion or 1.5 billion to the local roads. Where's the rest of it? Aren't you ashamed? In order to change and increase local government funding, it is only necessary to amend the Road Fund Act. You don't have to do anything, you don't need an extra bill. Enough of these 30 billion zlotys, which are levied annually from excise duties on fuel, spend money on road construction so that they are even more invested in the development of road infrastructure. Why are you doing this? To steal. Steal our people's money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few minutes ago, the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure of the Government of the PiS did not agree that the fuel levy would be paid by those who use the roads. Does he use the roads as a pensioner who will pay this fee by buying milk, bread, basic products? No. Will a farmer who mainly consumes fuel in the field and doesn't use public roads pay? He'll pay. Finally, the transport industry. An example of one of the entrepreneurs from Poznań: 200,000. I spent fuel within a month, mainly outside our country, fueled in Poland. Minister, that's not true. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u153	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u154	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to this debate, I feel that the PO-PSL government has never raised taxes. That's why I have a question for the Minister: How many times in eight years did the PO-PSL coalition raise taxes? Is it true that gasoline in their time cost 6 PLN? I would like to ask the Minister whether the introduction of a road toll will result in an increase in fuel prices. I have one more question: Will small local governments have a chance to benefit from this program? How many kilometers of roads are we going to build with this program? [[Vaseline.]] I have another question, my dear Minister: will the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło try to negotiate the prospect of making local roads money in regional operational programmes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Vaseline, the PiS marshal doesn't build.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u155	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant how it is that the budget collected PLN 29 billion from fuel excise duty alone last year and allocated less than PLN 2.5 billion to roads. The basic question to be asked in such a situation: Where is the money? The answer is self-evident. It's on your planes, on your limos and on your Misiewicz salaries. This is a new fuel+ program, a new scandalous fuel+ program, which will cost Poles PLN 5 billion. That needs to be made clear. It is said that Mr Suski, I do not know if he is here, in the room, the famous titanium of intellect, calms down: fuel will not go all over Poland, but at petrol stations. [[Applause]] That's great. If there's gonna be a raise in sugar or milk, they're only gonna go to shops. Bravo. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Reporter, you've already... [[I'm an applicant.]] ...Applicant, I'm sorry, you're already an Internet star today, just read the comments. I don't envy you, but I don't feel sorry for you either. Your flaming speech is, unfortunately, equally credible with the flaming speech of a peddler trying to sell us the carpet. [[Applause]] There are no facts... [[Weak, weak.]] ...no facts, sir. [[Voice from the hall: Don't insult the peddlers.]] [[Voice from the room: Work like work, honest.]] You cite the example of a German who has a higher excise duty. Of course, only Germans have four or five times more in their wallets than Poles. You try Poles who work hard for their bread, take even more. Mr President, the question and another fact. Do you know how many accidents are reported as accidents due to bad road conditions? That is what Mrs Wróblewska asked. I'll answer you for $30,000. events in 2016 of such events classified as an event due to bad road condition is 30,3. [[♪ The bell ♪]] (PL) Mr President, I would also like to ask for statistics on the increase in commodity prices due to the increase in...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u159	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u160	...transport services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u161	Thank you. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u162	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Underestimation 500+ is 1.5 billion PLN, administration - 1 billion, which means we already have 2.5 billion, as much as this new fund is going to affect. If you were counting the money well, you wouldn't have to make that charge because it wouldn't make sense, because that money would already be there, it would have been enough to move it. How is it, sir, that you say that you have excellent budget results, and that you raise... a new budget fee, a tax fee, an apology of PLN 5 billion? I would like to ask and feel the High House at the same time, because this is, in my opinion, just a cover. Because today the courts are gonna fall, and today the NGO-s are gonna fall, and that's really what this is all about, because all the media is gonna talk about the fuel charge. Probably some of the Members will break down. It is possible that their, fortunately, glory to God, will not be, but will disappear two reductions of Polish civil society, i.e. independent courts [[Applause]] and independent self-government organisations. I ask that the Polish society remembers that this is an outcast. Machiavelli could learn from you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u163	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u164	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The national reconstruction programme of local roads, whose idea and concept I made in June 2008, and which then, under different names, effectively helped local government to solve the important problem, which is undoubtedly local roads, is a very good program. Let me remind you that this was a total of 1 billion from the budget with 50% of the local budgets being co-financed. Over $12,000. roads renovated, built, sir. I'm gonna recall that statement from your speech: "Whoever uses it participates." Right? That's what you said. [[Yes.]] We had such situations in a time of crisis that it came to the need to reach the source, in my opinion, a very logical one, which was the State Forests, which, by leaving with this equipment overloaded into local roads, undoubtedly destroy these roads. So what? And you've made such a fuss about it, such a revolution, you've gathered [[♪ The bell ♪]] signatures in churches even under the slogan "privatizations of State Forests." What's next with the signatures? And is that statement you made still valid and whether the State Forests will participate in...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u165	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u166	...the fund? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Way to go, Janek! Janek, but this wasn't a forest debate...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a question for Art. 24 of this bill. [[But the article can't talk.]] Namely, I would like the Minister to refer to the writing of this article, which gives him the authority to issue a regulation setting out the conditions and modalities for granting subsidies for the construction of local roads, because there are no specific criteria in the draft law here. On the other hand, the explanatory memorandum of the draft law states that the criteria for assessing proposals will be modelled on the existing criteria for assessing proposals applied under the local road development programme. I believe that these criteria should be reviewed... [[Minister Chefnacker is about to come out and cover something up.]] ...because if we want to build a coherent system of municipal and district roads, these criteria should change. Today it is very difficult to get funds for the road, which often connects two municipalities, not necessarily with the lights being built or the pavement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And she...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u169	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u170	...in this program she's been getting extra points so far. It's about building roads like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u171	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few questions for the rapporteur, who tried very bravely... [[Applicants.]] ...the applicants, I apologize, who in a bravado tried to justify the reasonableness of increasing fuel prices in Poland. Mr President, I congratulate you on your idea, but you have unfortunately failed. Therefore, I wanted to ask if the fuel+ program is being run in such a fast mode, because the holiday is coming and the PiS is hoping that Poles will simply be able to spend more on holiday trips? Is the fuel+ program related to the fact that harvest is approaching, and every farmer in Poland, fueling his tractor, fueling his combine, will he simply have to pay more for harvesting from his fields? And we know that this will also translate into the costs of food products in Poland simply. And I would like to conclude by asking you if you are simply ashamed to justify the smashing in such a scandalous way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u173	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u174	...just before the holidays and before the harvest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u175	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, in this part of the room, it smelled like Gierek. The economic homo sovieticus has mastered your minds. You don't give local governments money because the government doesn't have any money of its own. To give to someone, you have to take away others. It's obvious, as the classic said. I have a question for two Members of the applicants who signed up for this project, two Members of Kalisz. I would like to know if Mr Mosiński from Kalisz and Mr Ławniczak from the Kalisz area... [[A famous anti-Semite.]] ...they consulted this brilliant project with the voters they represent, whether they asked families living in our common home town, whether they accepted this idea and dreamed of introducing such a solution - an additional tax. I ask that only these two Members reply to me, because their signatures appear under this project as signatures of the Members of the applicants. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u178	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the key. According to what key will the implementation of these road repair projects take place? And another question: Don't you think there are other tools to raise funds to finance road repair? Even the greater share of local government units or VAT or PIT. Can't it be done in such a way that it doesn't burden the citizens, first of all, so that there are roads, solutions that aren't expensive solutions for citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, you are introducing something that is appalling, which is controversial, because you are looking for financing other programs with money that are to be found thanks to the change in fuel prices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, we will not support such actions, which in addition...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u179	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u180	It's looking for easy money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u181	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! After two terms of office, the Civic Platform left the district and communal roads in a catastrophic state. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] I am sending you to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which is alarming in this regard. Read your crazy, fascinating reading. [[Madame, lower the speaker so that it fits your level.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Poles want to drive on good and safe roads. It is not only the inhabitants of large cities, the agglomerations in which the PO invested, because there was generally your money, but also the inhabitants of small towns and districts, small towns, deserve it. [[That's where the money went mostly, to get the schematics.]] Minister, I have two questions. Who negotiated the financial perspective of 2014 and 2020 so that there is no money for district and communal roads within this perspective? [[Applause]] And question two. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it true that the PO planned 200 billion PLN for road tasks and secured 100 billion PLN? Thank you. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[What's the amount? 100 billion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u183	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u184	Thank you, Marshal. I would like to ask Mr Dolata, whom the whole world has actually met today - you have your day today, I do not envy you - because you said a very important thing that thanks to this increase in taxes will not increase travel insurance, OC and AC. I would like to ask you, do you know how much in the last year and a half of the PiS governments have increased the cost of insurance for OCs? They have increased in some cases six times, increased from 500 PLN to 6 thousand PLN. How much nerve does it take to get out, stand on that platform and say it's gonna go down. Unless the shock absorbers get smaller because you talked about it, too. Can you answer me if the shock absorbers stand, if you make this raise? A few months ago, a note appeared on Mr Brudziński's Facebook that his car, I understand, was financed from the 500+ program. We know that this raise is because you're short of 500+. I would like to ask if now you PiS Members who drive with these 500+ plates, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will allow all citizens to ride with signs. My taxes have funded 500+, my taxes, which have been added to the price of fuel...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u185	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u186	...the car was financed for Mr Brudziński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u187	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u188	Thank you very much. I have a question -- I find it hard to believe that there are no such calculations -- whether there are calculations and if there are statistics about how they're going to use the basic products, because the biggest share in their price is the transport costs. As the cost of agricultural products increases, the cost of vegetables or fruit must be increased, as farmers will have to spend more on the fuel needed to work in the field. How will the prices of all those products that affect the poorest people change? The percentage share of transport costs in the cost of luxury products is negligible, so for all these increases of 25 gr will be paid not only by someone filling, but also by every poor person, anyone who will want to buy milk, bread, anything like that. Are there such calculations? If not, why not? Second question: Is the plan ready, because it is to be a great road construction program, is the plan ready, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or are you gonna start collecting money and then wondering what to spend it on? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to draw attention to two points. Today, on several occasions, it has been said that the introduction of a road toll does not necessarily mean an increase in fuel prices. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's no secret to the oil market professionals that the refinery margin, the retail margin in particular, because we think about it and we talk about it, is very small, represents 1.5%. , at most 2% fuel prices, so even if the fuel companies gave up all the profits, this fuel charge will increase prices. And don't talk about it. In the second part of the speech I would like to speak for Polish transport companies. Ladies and gentlemen, today every third, almost every third truck on European roads is a truck with Polish registration. This sector is a very important sector. This is a very competitive sector, but the price of fuel is in many cases decisive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's not raise that price. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, there's some digression, maybe for you as well, but first of all for Mr Nitras... [[I knew it.]] ... Because what he said at the moment was disgraceful... [[You don't understand the word "digression."]] It's disgraceful when it comes to behavior against a woman. When Mrs Borowiak spoke... [[You don't understand the word "digression."]] ...he said that we had to leave the platform so that this platform would be at her level. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about? What are you talking about?]] Mr. President, your level... If you want to speak in this House, you should be on the floor. [[Applause]] [[Sir, there's a button in there.]] But back to the point, ladies and gentlemen. There were different numbers here today. We can agree with them more or less, but there is one issue which is the essence of this today's action - Poland must develop, must be beautiful, must be safe, must also be safe on the roads. Ladies and gentlemen, why does it bother you that we are talking about this today, that we are introducing this bill and that it has the shape it has? Well, that's why, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is simple, that we'll spend this money fairly, unlike you. They're gonna be fair and square. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on Polish roads. And that's the essence of this case. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Seventh, don't steal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u193	Thank you very much. In the mode of correcting Mr Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u194	I don't usually argue with my predecessor, but I'd like to, because people are watching it, showing that the platform is regulated in the Seym, and that's all I wanted to do. [[Remind me what you said.]] If that's not how you feel about it, I'm so sorry. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Just don't make me argue with this gentleman. Thank you. [[Can I answer that, Marshal?]] [[This is the level of lying on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u195	There you go, Member. And I ask you to remain calm. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u196	Mr President, now don't pretend that you said anything other than that. [[You need a ladder because I can't see.]] I heard it exactly. You said you wanted me to lower the platform to the level of my intellect. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[The voice from the Chamber: Mrs... paid attention to him.]] Mr. President, I'd like to... [[Member, you're lying.]] ...I wish that in the Polish Sejm the opposition, even though it is hysterical and total, would have worthy representatives, such as will be able to come out here... [[But the Member did not say so.]] ...and substantively face arguments, not personal attacks. [[Your marshal, but I can't... these are lies. Marshal, I will insist. I didn't say that.]] I inform you that what you have said has been written down... [[Exactly.]] ...and I, because this is another speech of yours, because once you called me and my friend the Sejm stupid, I refer the matter to the Committee on the Ethics of Parliament. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But of course, direct it. Your marshal, I demand... these are false words.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u197	Mr. President, I would like to... You corrected it, we'll check the transcript, and I'll... [[But that's a new statement. Well, I didn't straighten it out before the honourable Member said it.]] Please, sir, one minute, but I'm closing this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u198	I'll even close it in less time. My fellow Member, I am not going to argue with you either. I didn't say the words you said. I hope the ethics committee can decide that. Remember, too, that this speaker must be told the truth, it must not be lied, and the scope of the regulation of this speaker, its height, is unfortunately also limited. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, dear.]] [[Voice from the hall: Chuligan.]] [[I thought you had a really higher level.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u199	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The lack of any reflection on the economic interest of the Polish state for all sectors of economic activity and without an assessment of the effects of the proposed regulation will lead to disaster. At the last session of the Seym, Prime Minister Szydło assured that she would listen to Poles. So why wasn't there a public consultation? Why do you not ask Poles if they want another public tribute involving an increase in prices of goods and services? It's really gonna cost us a lot of money. How will the fund be distributed to local government units, Minister? Why don't you increase your share of income tax for the municipalities, just reach into citizens' pockets? Granting the municipalities 10% more shares in PIT would be a good solution, not another tax. Why are you lying to Poles? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How embarrassing are you? Just don't steal - the Prime Minister's favorite words lately.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u201	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u202	Then why are you doing this? Why? [[Applause]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was already said here today, but I will repeat it again: Over half the price of petrol It's taxes. The government can reduce them. I'd lower my excise duty, which would lower the price of gasoline, but that takes courage and responsibility. I have a question. That's what Jarosław Kaczyński said. I have a question for you. Do you have the courage to say yes, we will raise the prices, yes, it will all cost money? Do you have the courage to act like your youngest Member, the Member of Law and Justice, who said to reject this law? Do you have the courage to do that? [[The president will come, and they'll reject it if he says so.]] Because if you don't have it, then you're just cowards and you're lying. And to Members of my voivodship, Kujawsko-Pomorskie: If you say that the roads are to be financed, I ask where the timetables are. What roads? [[We'll see.]] Why are you cheating every time from this polka and polish speakers? Why? Where's the courage in you? Where is the courage of Jarosław Kaczyński? Has she changed since 2011? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u204	Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The local government road fund will not only finance the construction of roads and the reconstruction of district and municipal roads, but also provides for the possibility to finance water and sewage infrastructure in the road lane, which is extremely important for rural communities. Minister, the project says that the local government unit can get 80%. the financing of investments. So will the municipalities' own income be the only criterion for obtaining funds from the Roads Fund? And I would like to remind you of the words of your husband's providence, Donald Tusk, who, after the election, bloomed that this fuel will now be 7 zlotys. It was after 6:00 in your day. [[It's a lie.]] What do you say? [[It's a lie.]] And Mr Nitras, I am exactly... [[Next, next.]] Not next, sir, have respect for the people. [[But don't point that finger at me.]] I'll be there. If I want to, I will. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr Nitras, you have offended... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u206	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Krzykala, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, would you please calm these ladies down?]] I just calmed down. [[Would you mind calming these ladies down?]] Sit down, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, can I calm him down?]] [[Yes, yes, come, come.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u207	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u208	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u209	Thank you very much. The government wants to take care of the state of our roads, and this is, of course, a legitimate, glorious goal, in the name of widespread security. But here's the question: Why doesn't the government benefit from a proven sketch program, a program that worked well in local governments and, above all, didn't result in any additional tax? Wouldn't it be fairer to tell Poles: the budget doesn't work out, we can't handle it, we've counted, we're short of money, so we have to raise taxes? This would explain in particular the planned increase in fuel prices, but also the further planned increases, i.e. the rise in water, gas, energy prices, planned carbon tax, the rise in drug prices due to the amendment of the law introducing a pharmacy rule for a pharmacist or the planned increase in vehicle review prices by 25% since January 2018. So I'm asking what the real reason for the raises is. Isn't it better to tell the Poles the truth? Is it really about caring for the roads, or is it simply a government failure? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u210	Mr. Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that local roads, including district and municipal roads, require government support. Only the question arises as to why this government support is to be implemented in such a trivial way, only by reaching into citizens' pockets. As Mr Rozonec said here, this is not an increase in the fuel levy, it is a road charge, and therefore a new indirect tax, which will charge the pockets of Poles and Poles. Moreover, as an indirect tax, it will also directly affect the rise in commodity prices and, above all, food prices and basic services. The question is why you are not modernising the country, but reaching only into the pockets of Poles and Poles. These are not governments that introduce some new quality, these are trivial governments. Once again, you lied... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u213	In times of economic prosperity, you want to rip out Polish and Polish wallets. Such a small holiday jump for money and a raise that will bring with it an avalanche of other increases - goods, services, communications, education and holidays too. I would like to remind you that roads were built in times of crisis and the resources were booked in the state budget. That's how more than 18,000 people were born. local roads, so-called Schematics. Notice what road investments are now. These are prepared and started by the predecessors, the Platform and the PSL, and those implemented by local authorities from the funds of the European Union. There are no new investments because your minister decided not to build anything. He doesn't build roads, nor does he build apartments. If you think about why you're introducing another tax, it all comes down to one lie, because you're masters of lies, you're masters of manipulation. Why are you lying? Even if you rip off the wallets of Poles during the holiday period to patch the holes in the budget, you will run out of new mirrors that crash in the morning, in the evening... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u214	Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Bogdan Rzoniec, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President of the Civic Platform, Mr Grzegorz Schetyna, called this bill a disgrace. I wanted to ask you if that's what you think... [[Yes.]] ...that it's disgraceful that we want to defend the safety of ordinary people in society... [[You have the answer: yes.]] ...the villages, the cities. Is this a disgrace? [[But they're taxing me.]] Do you think so? [[That's what they think!]] Mercy, ladies and gentlemen, mercy in the assessment of this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u216	Mr Nitras, I warn you. [[But there was a question, I answer.]] Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u217	Famous, thank you so much for reminding me. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Dolata, the applicant, answering the journalist's question about the new PiS tax, said that 10 PLN for full tank is an acceptable level. For whom, sir? Maybe for you? [[What are you telling me?]] But tell that to your classmates, because you're, you know, a teacher. Tell that especially to the teachers you kicked out of work because you shut down the middle school. [[Bullshit, fairy tales.]] You want to rob Poles of 5 billion zlotys to build roads. Meanwhile, the Civic Platform built 18,000. km of sketches without road toll. May I? Yes, you can. [[12.5.]] [[But during your term of office, the program was still under way.]] Finally, let the finance minister Mateusz Morawiecki decide whether the public finances are in good shape or in bad condition. If you're in a good place, what's the new tax for, build a road fund like a bad one, then stop propaganding success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u218	Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions for the Member of the applicant and the Government. Three figures. 4 billion - Water Law, which will be voted on in a moment, 5 billion - bank tax, 4,5 billion - road toll, tax. The budget for 500+ is 24,25 billion. You've downloaded 14 billion from these taxes. So my question -- you're short of 10 billion, we have two more Sejm sessions, a few more this year -- the government is like this: What laws are going to affect this 10 billion bill so that you can cover the 500+ programme? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u220	Mr Krzysztof July, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u221	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The call for a debate without demagogue is a little late at the moment, but the question to the total opposition is justified: Have you read this bill... [[Yes.]] ...who you're totally criticizing today? Because from the course of this debate, I feel like I haven't. Next question: Are you listening to the voice of your self-government? I feel like I don't either. 'Cause I'm gonna tell you what it's like in Świętokrzyskie. An appeal has been made to my hands from the convention of wojites, mayors and city presidents with a keen request to increase funding for road infrastructure. [[From the budget, from the budget.]] And what's more... [[Game in the O.R.]] But the Member knows that these are not just budget resources... Okay, but let's not argue like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u222	Mrs Skowronska, please do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u223	What's more, I'm saying that this convention is mostly...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u224	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u225	...people from PSL. Moreover, there is also a legitimate question that I wanted to address to my representative also, i.e. to the applicant's representative: Is it really in this project? [[♪ The bell ♪]] ... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u227	...there's a disposition going in that direction to pass the costs on to the citizens... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u228	Mr President, you have run out of time. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Everyone should have the right to finish the sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u229	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In your campaign, you declared that... [[It's a matter of culture.]] ...taxes are gonna fall. Why did you cheat the Poles? Why do you keep cheating on Poles? There aren't 8,000. PLN of tax-free amount, clothes for children still with the maximum VAT rate and many other examples that fell here today on the platform. And there are already new taxes - the toll hidden in the price of fuel, each year increased by inflation rates, higher water charges, the tax on restructuring mines hidden in the price of energy, VAT on transport policies of the OC is also expected to increase. After all, both the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure assured that they were not planning changes in fuel charges. I have a question: Did the Minister count exactly - because here various sums fell - how much will the average Polish family have to spend annually to cover fuel costs? According to my calculations, it will be approx. 500 PLN. That's equal to taking one payment of 500+. And every next one... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u230	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u231	...the tax is to take another payment of 500+. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u232	Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A truck - an increase in the cost of its use after the introduction of an increased fuel charge is approx. 10 thousand. PLN per year. Public transport - growth in Łódź over 2 million PLN per year, in Warsaw more than 9 million PLN. Increase in the labour cost of the construction machine - approx. 100,000. During the entire life of such a machine. Hence the question: Who will benefit most - for certainly not citizens - from increasing fuel charges? Of course, the government. Why? More than half... Half of this money will go to the central fund on national roads. You will save a billion dollars in sketches and about PLN 1 billion in VAT, which is transferred to the state budget due to construction investments. And who will decide where to build roads? Of course, it will be a political decision, belonging to the voivodeship, belonging to the Minister of Infrastructure, which means that you will be guided by the political interest and not by the social interest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u234	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club. [[If I know Waldek, he'll back me up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The safety of people is paramount, including on the roads - as far as they are concerned, we are in the brute front of accidents and deaths in Europe, largely due to the state of the roads. I have a question for the Minister: Will fuel prices increase at all, what is the hysterical opposition shouting here? What were the fuel prices of the PO-PSL government when they reached PLN 6 and despite requests you did not want to lower the fuel price? How many times did PO-PSL raise taxes, how many times did you rob taxpayers... [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: A little economics, Mr Hennig-Kloska.]] ...and that's how you scream? I have a question: How many district roads and communes will we renovate from the road fund, especially the district roads, which are in a pitiful state? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Waldek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u236	The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u237	Total power can do anything. Mr. Marshal dear always cares about the form of questioning speeches, so question. Who said this: When the price of fuel increases, prices also increase other products, including food? Minister Błaszczak, I will answer. The applicant does not need to respond. High Izbo! For four of the five seniors, retirement is the only livelihood. In pensioner's and pensioner's holdings, food and housing expenditure is the biggest expenditure. [[Because you raised the VAT.]] Health often just doesn't work. Seniors are not the top priority of this government, but seniors will be the ones who will feel the biggest increase in fuel taxes and the price of water in the tap. [[The prices won't go up.]] Polish seniors will feel it - an age group that has received nothing from you. A lie about free drugs comes out after every senior's visit to the pharmacy. [[And what did they get from you?]] A year ago Minister Rafalska said: The 500+ program is for pensioners, because they will not add to their grandchildren... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u238	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increase in taxation practically always leads to an increase in the grey zone, so that my question to the applicants: Are the Polish services ready to fight the fuel mafia you want to recreate? How about you guys? You don't wanna fight the fuel mob you're gonna want to recreate by growing this gray zone? That's the first question. Second question: Have applicants calculated how much a four-person family will lose and how much will be left of the 500+ benefit when both parents commute to work 30 km each day, each parent? How much is left over from providing 500+ to such a family? And the third question: Has any of the applicants calculated how this fuel tax increase bill will affect inflation pressure? Because you don't need to be a prominent economist to understand that virtually all goods in the economy are transported, so the prices of all goods in Poland will increase, just increase inflation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u240	Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you if it is true that in a short time the Civic Platform introduced an increase of 21 taxes and charges. [[But you know that's not true.]] I also wanted to ask, will this fund finally be used to renovate county and municipal roads? One more question to the members of the Civic Platform. Why did you give up the Konin mine and the Adam mine for free because of men like Mr. Grad and Mr. Bury putting the entire region on their shoulders? Today, companies of the Treasury bring income. [[That's not the point.]] Did you have to do that? Isn't it worth compensating for these local governments today... [[And why today wasn't approved for a new discovery for...]] ...which are there, even in such a way that we will repair the roads, the losses you have suffered? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u242	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All your hypocrisy and your lies showed and exposed today in this Chamber your fellow Member, Łukasz Rzepecki. Your young envoy. He told the truth about you. He called this act disgraceful and called for you to withdraw your signatures from this bill, because that's not what you promised, that's not what Prime Minister Szydło said. You don't have to raise taxes if you don't steal. I mean, who's stealing? You're stealing? Ladies and gentlemen, you have repeatedly criticized the increase in fuel taxes. The price of petrol is 50% taxes - President Kaczyński recently thundered. Fuel prices translate into increases in other goods [[♪ The bell ♪]] - that's what Minister Błaszczak said. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] This tax... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u244	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Member, of course the roads in Poland need to be renovated, but we, Poles, are already putting a lot of money on these roads. Not much has changed in this configuration. You promised to lower the share of the tax in the fuel, and today, nothing else, you just want to increase it. That's way too much. About 30 billion of fuel excise duties, nearly 5 billion fuel charges and VAT, which, in your opinion, are being hunted more and more smoothly, are coming into the budget every year. So the government - and the whole party - must consider whether the budgetary situation is good or bad, because if it is good, raising taxes is a curiosity situation from the citizen's point of view, and if it is bad, then finally admit that you have no money for plans, and you found money in the budget for 500+, among others. That's why... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...that you cut your expenses for... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u246	Thank you. Mrs Maria Zuba, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that for 8 years the Civic Platform and PSL in the Around Budget Act raised excise duties on motor fuels? Is it true that in the days of the Civic Platform and the PSL petrol cost nearly 6 PLN, the money raised from it melted in the fog and local roads were built by local governmentmen? Minister, I'd like to express my thanks from the local government... [[And taxpayers, grateful taxpayers.]] [[And the taxpayers' gratitude.]] ...for the fact that rules have been introduced in this law on the use of funds where they are unable to use the money allocated during the financial year. Tell me in what period, how many years, they'll be able to use that money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Grateful voters, grateful taxpayers. Thank you and ask for more.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] And is it true that a local fund for roads...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform Club. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you, Member. Madame, you've used your time. Thank you very much. [[Speech outside the microphone, applause]] Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs My Speaker! The first thing the taxpayers want to say is thank you and I'm sure they'll thank you for the election. They're asking for more taxes like this. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[You don't understand this project.]] Yeah, they're thrilled. Just don't steal. How many times have we heard that? Question is, who's stealing? [[That's why there's gonna be a fund, and it's not gonna melt.]] But tell me, who's stealing? [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u250	Madam, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u251	If it's enough not to steal, someone steals, if you have to increase those taxes, [[Applause]] Or we don't understand something. Maybe this is the new economy of PiS? As Mr Suski explained to us yesterday: fuel will not go all over Poland, but at petrol stations. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then maybe we don't understand something, really. [[We'll check in six months.]] Maybe. I have a question for the rapporteur, too. You are a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Did you explain to the farmers that this tax will still be paid this year when they leave for field work... [[But their shock absorbers will stand up.]] ...that they'll pay for it this year, not in the bright future you draw like this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u252	Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Right after a series of questions. You're welcome. [[But how about after a series of questions? Formal conclusion.]] [[But how about after a series of questions? It's about questions.]] Questions? [[Yes, of course to...]] [[A formal conclusion... when you report it, not after an hour.]] You wanted to report it right now? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u253	Mr. Marshal! I'm filing a formal motion to adjourn this meeting so that the National Media Council can meet... [[Yes, sir.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and explain why...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u254	Thank you very much, Member. This is not a formal conclusion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The request for interruption shall be a formal request.]] Ma'am, you're talking about the media council. That doesn't apply to this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u255	But I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u256	Please, ma'am. After a series of questions, please. [[Mr. Marshal, you just don't know your way around this job.]] Mr... [[You're just not right.]] [[Formal motion for a recess.]] But what, what's the break? The media council?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u257	Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u258	We're in the Seym. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Exactly.]] What, you don't know where you are? [[And the motion is to adjourn.]] Mr President, now we will not vote on the request for a break. [[Let me finish.]] We can do it after... You're applying for... [[Look, you'll know.]] But I've heard it. [[But we can't hear.]] [[But this is the Seym, she's talking to the Seym, not to you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u259	Members are members of the National Media Council and I therefore wanted to make a proposal. Ladies and gentlemen... I don't know if my mic's on. [[He's got two minutes to justify according to the rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u260	But you're embarrassed to make a motion that has nothing to do with the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u261	Mr. Marshal, I submit...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u262	You want it, go ahead, tell it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u263	I'm filing a formal motion to adjourn the sitting so that...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u264	Once, because the rain fell.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u265	... The National Media Council could explain why public television, Polish Television stopped broadcasting... [[He's the only one.]] ...this important debate for Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u266	Thank you very much. [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u267	Why did the opposition Members start asking difficult questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u268	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[You're ashamed.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[A scandal, Mr. Marshal, this is a scandal.]] You applied for a recess. Right now, there's no way because there's no quorum in the courtroom. Sit down, sir. [[This is outrageous, what you're doing!]] [[The motion is for the Sejm, not for you.]] Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. [[Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal, punish.]] Please, Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz has the floor. You learn the rules of the Seym, please. [[You learn the rules of the Sejm.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u269	Mr. Marshal! On the one hand, you say that the budget is bursting at the seams of excess money...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u270	You're gonna interrupt me one more time...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u271	And on the other hand, you raise the fuel tax, so what's it like with the budget? Who's lying here is the question. It's simple. PiS is lying, and the only question is, is if he's lying when he says... [[Voice from the room: We'll see if there's any more fuel.]] ...that the budget breaks in stitches from excess money, or lies when it says that this budget is pissing away from excess spending, talking about the need to introduce new taxes. This bill is a smoke screen, and I wouldn't be surprised if it was withdrawn in a moment, because it's a smoke screen covering the destruction of the independence of the NGOs, a smoke screen covering the stubbornness of the judiciary. [[Yes, sir.]] It's also a smoke screen that covers all these media reports of suspicion that the environment of the current Minister of National Defence is surrounded by people with unclear ties to Russia... [[Clear ties to Russia.]] ...with the Kremlin, with the Secret Service. Dear Members and Members of the PiS, you will not be able to hide behind your own evil laws. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]] You will not be able to hide behind the scandals, Poles will not forget it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u273	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I listen very carefully to the voices of the drivers who have been asked by journalists in recent days when they are gassing at the fuel stations, as they estimate this toll, and it is so that some of them are obviously against it, because on the question "Are you in favour of raising the fuel charge?" It is a simple thing that everyone will say that they are not. But there are also many such voices and these voices need to be appreciated, the voices of drivers who say one thing: If this fee is passed on to road construction, we will loot. Such voices, ladies and gentlemen, are most important to us. [[That's what your wife said.]] One more thing. Those drivers who refuel today, during the rule of law and justice, pay PLN 4.40 for 1 l and those who refueled under your rule, under the rule of the Civic Platform in 2012 were refueling for PLN 6. [[And what was the price of a barrel of oil? Compare that, man.]] That's the good one... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]] It was expensive for the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u274	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u275	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It is a pity that there is no Prime Minister, because I wanted to ask what is the government's position towards this project, because I hope that it is negative and that in this position you have reminded your colleagues, which you promised in the election campaign, and what you have said many times from this speaker over the last two years. You said you were going to eliminate a very harmful fossil tax. You didn't close the tax. [[And who brought him in?]] Minister Kowalczyk spoke about a reduction in tax rates since 2017. You didn't lower it. You were talking about a zero child clothing tax, and you didn't even lower it. But you didn't say a word about the new tax. Build and repair roads, for that is your task, but do not deceive Poles and realize your wonderful ideas at the expense of them, because so far you have not realized any way and cared for the safety of Poles, and I will remind you, it has been 2 years. Too bad Poles can't hear it on national television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u276	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to remain in the rhetorical figures convention, which the applicant presented so beautifully here today. I will refer to what Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska asked for. I imagine that today, at 7:30 in the news, we will see a Pole sitting comfortably in a seat in a euphoric mood, and at the same time he is very moved - touched that you care so much about safety and euphoric, because he has information that for one tire he will ride on the road equal to the table, to all this he will have a quite healthy suspension system and yet this road will be built for half the price. It's really insanely touching and moving. I have run out of words in your speech at the end of this question from the right past: Will you help? We will not help, sir, and I am glad that there is someone like Mr Rzepecki. Question, but no more euphemisms, sir. Is what's going on today... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]] Is that a tax? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u278	Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government boasts of quite high budget revenues, while at the same time imposing another racket for Poles - an increase in fuel prices. In 2016, the viaTOLL system amounted to PLN 1.5 billion and the excise duty amounted to PLN 29 billion. I ask the applicant how many roads, how many kilometers of roads were built or renovated from this money. How much more burden do you expect for Polish drivers, for companies carrying out passenger transport, for transport companies, courier companies or suppliers? Finally, who gave you the right to cynically use traffic accident victims in the discussion? Now quote: You say you don't have money for 500+. [[Voice from the hall: Who says so? We got it!]] I'm asking you again where they are. Because some people say it's enough not to steal. It seems that the quoted words of Prime Minister Szydło, especially the last paragraph, prophetically concerned your political camp. Today, Poles and Poles are witnessing a change of the flagship program from 500+ to 1000-. [[Voice from the hall: Satisfied, such Poland has not yet had.]] What you put in one pocket, twice out of the other pocket, you pull out. Shame, shame, triple shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u280	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a question: Why is Law and Justice instantly, without any consultation, pushing the parliamentary project about the Self-Government Road Fund with its knees? Rapporteur... [[Applicant.]] ...he tried to convince the Sejm of the phenomenon of this bill, of what prosperity would be when we passed this bill. [[It's true.]] Unfortunately, you failed, this is a very bad project which, contrary to the promises of the PiS, introduces very high charges for every liter of fuel, and it is perfidious when Poles are on vacation when they are resting. They don't know what's gonna happen to them when they come back from these vacations. I have a question: why do you do this when there are two sources of funding? The first is the huge budget surplus that we hear about everywhere, and the second is the tax or revenue from excise duties on fuel. I mean, there's almost 30 billion zlotys... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u282	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u283	Mr. Marshal! This racket you're trying to collect now has a chance of success. You put 500+ in one pocket, but on the other hand you'll take 1,000- for water and electricity and gas. Everything will be expensive, because the price of fuel is the price of food, furniture, car, everything, and for farmers, and for individual customers. This is your hypocrisy. The Member says that it is at the request of Poles. Poles want to make the PiS happy: Increase the price of fuel! I think you're crazy. Something's changed. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And I also know why you're collecting this -- for 500+ now the national bank will even give, but you announced that you would surprise the pensioners for Christmas, after 500+ for the pensioner. Like Margaret Thatcher said, the government doesn't have its own money, it has to take it out of taxpayers' pockets. And now you're gonna take it to be good, and you're gonna give 500+ to the pensioners. This is a disgrace. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This tax of yours... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] This tax is shameful, sir. And shame on you for saying that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u284	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u285	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government isn't here. [[Member of the Commission, the Minister is here.]] First of all, the price of a barrel of oil -- it was $120 per barrel, today it's $45. Hence the prices. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Look right, Member.]] But I'd like to talk about the Ministry of Stupid Steps. There's a culprit. On 8 April he said: there will be a fuel charge. The minister scolded him, the Prime Minister scolded him, Morawiecki scolded him and the president. And they're not here today. Who took responsibility for this? Dolata. Mr President, you are the face of this project. You took responsibility for everyone. [[A scapegoat.]] Why? The Civic Platform amendment should have been supported. We proposed an additional PLN 1200 million from the budget for 2017 for the construction of local roads. We built 18,000. km of local roads. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then without... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] They're coming for your money, they're gonna steal $5 billion. [[Applause]] [[And you didn't give me 500+.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Gierada, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all remember Jarosław Kaczyński's famous press conference with a canister. Today, Jarosław Kaczyński and the canister are more similar to Jack the Ripper with the scalpel. We all remember very well how the opposition Member Beata Szydło, together with Mr Błaszczak, raised a large volume, as fuel prices approached about 5 PLN, then reached above 5 PLN. [[Over PLN 6.]] I remember your arguments, but tell me today that fuel, oil we're bringing in, we don't have one of our own. That's when it cost $130 a barrel on the world stock market. Today - this is exactly the price of the last month - this is an average of $47. We hear a lot in the national media now, how very good it is with the budget, how much more influence is there, how no one steals and how great it is. [[Because it's true.]] Then why is Poland in debt the fastest of all countries of the European Union? Why can't you build roads, and why do you reach into the pockets of Poles again? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u288	Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You lied for eight years, you built an election campaign on a lie, you're still lying. Mr President, the barrel of oil is three times cheaper than our governments. Is the gas at the stations cheaper? No. The most expensive fuel we have in Płock, where Orlen is. Prime Minister Morawiecki claimed that the budget is in excellent order not to say: in a bright, conditioned state. Kaczyński with a canister in his hand criticized fuel increases. And the current Prime Minister said it was enough not to steal so that the budget would have enough money for everything. The question is, what did you do that you didn't have any money? Where are they? [[Who stole them?]] Mr applicant, I would like to tell you that I have only one question missing from your speech: Poles, will you help? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, we answer, "We're not gonna help. [[It's already been done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u290	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u291	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Are they crazy? These are the words from the PiS radio spot a few years ago when President Kaczyński demanded a reduction in excise duty. Are they crazy? Those words are coming out of your mouth today. [[Applause]] They've recently raised the price of gas, raised the price of coal, worked to raise the price of water, raised the price of fuel. Are they crazy? The prices are gonna go up for everything. [[Applause]] Mr applicant, from this Parliament stand just now, your colleague said that the bill is anti-human, anti-Citizen. 66 Members signed the project. The club has 234 members. Does this remaining number support the words of the Member who spoke about the anti-human and anti-Citizen Act? Are you so divided in this matter? What's the truth? Minister of Infrastructure, you've been screaming and saying there's no raise, no plans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u292	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Mr Dolata, Nobody buys what you're trying to show here, that it's gonna be cheaper with a raise. That's not gonna happen. I have an appeal to all of you who will be fuelling. The distributor at each gas station will have the face of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] But you know what? He's smiling. And you know why? Because he drives a limo, he's got protection, and he's absolutely not interested in how much a liter of fuel it's gonna cost. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u294	Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Platform Club. [[Scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Dolata and Mr Rzońc spoke about improving security. Mr President, we do not need to rob Poles to improve security. All you have to do is fire the Adamic. [[Applause]] just throw out Błaszczak, Zieliński and Macierewicz. [[Yeah, bravo!]] That's enough. You don't have to steal from Poles. And now we have a very specific question. Recently, at your convention, the president was very keen to show off the excellent economic results. He talked about how the economy is developing, how we become the fifth, third, fourth economic power of the world. It's a simple question. Every time Jarosław Kaczyński and Prime Minister Morawiecki want to lie to Poles about how well they live, will you introduce a new tax each time you raise fuel prices, each time so that your friendly TVP Info will lie to Poles, will you raise the tax? This is the truth about this economy? Why are you lying like that? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u296	Member Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Dolata! You were thrown by the party into the road section, but I think it happened out of the blue because you don't have any basic knowledge. You learned today from my colleagues, and this is probably a cognitive shock to you, that the price of gasoline depends on the price of a barrel of oil. Perhaps you don't know what the price of a barrel of oil depends on. Well, I don't know, because I didn't hear Prime Minister Morawiecki say anything, maybe something has changed, but we haven't been a member of an organization called OPEC. This is the organization of oil exporters. It is there that decisions are made about the price of the barrel. I think that in the assessment of the effects of the regulation of the three laws - the Law on water PiS, the Law on coal PiS, which each citizen will feel in the price of electricity, and the Law on petrol it is worth to include the following sentence: Pride goes before the fall. You've already got the pride. [[Applause]] And you'll get the fall soon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u298	Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is sad to say that the last almost two years of our rulers are one big lie and manipulation. Of course we all know that. And Poles, and Poles see it too. An example is this project, which is presented, the name itself. The name is the law on the Self-Government Road Fund. After all, this is really a road toll bill and should be called a road toll thief bill. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] This proposal shows how to collect money from people and centrally distribute by a minister who in this case would be a minister general, a national self-government of the country. It's a total misunderstanding. And as for the bright perspective, electric cars, which Prime Minister Morawiecki promises us, then what? Why didn't you raise it to electricity? Mr President, report this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u300	Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice, contrary to their electoral promises, introduces a new tax. And that's a fact. It is called a toll. But it does not change the fact that it is draining the pockets of Poles. You say that this money will be used for the modernisation and renovation of roads, including local roads, and yet there is a programme for the development of municipal and district road infrastructure. These local roads are being renovated and it happens without additional reaching into the pockets of Poles. After all, we have no guarantee that there will be more roads after the introduction of this tax. I will give an example from the Lublin Voivodeship area concerning the so-called. Schematics. Between 2009 and 2015, 1150 km of roads were renovated in 2016. - over 170 kilometers. I have a question for the applicant: will you guarantee that this money will actually be used for the renovation and modernisation of local roads rather than for patching other roads? Are these kilometers... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...renovated roads will there be more? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u302	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u303	Citizens and Citizens! It's on! The PiS is coming for your money. PiS is gonna take the racket because he's gonna promise to build roads. Can you build roads without racketeering? Yes, you can. The response to the interpellation of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration clearly indicates that 14 800 km of local roads were rebuilt in 2008 and 2015. May I? Yes, you can. And there's no need to reach For citizens' money. The platform suggested how to do it. We proposed an amendment of PLN 1200 million and the vote was made. How did Minister Adamczyk vote? No, no, no, no, no, How did Mr Dolata vote? No, no, no, no, no, How did Jarosław Kaczyński vote? No, no, no, no, no, You tricked the Poles, and I'll give you that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u304	Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u305	High Izbo! Let me remind you that the price of the barrel of oil in 2008 was $140, while the price of petrol was PLN 95 and PLN 4,72 per litre. Today the price of a barrel of oil since 2008 is the cheapest and costs three times less, because $47. The fuel price is 9 gr less than in 2008. It is governed by the Law and Justice that the dear nation is giving us. Over the last year and a half the butter has increased by 2 zlotys, milk - by 1 zloty, loaf of bread - by 1.20 zlotys. The increase in fuel prices will increase, among others. prices of food, medicines, clothes for children. Dear applicants, do you remember this photo? I'll remind you. How are you guys feeling today anyway? Some crew is going after your wallets, hold on to your pockets - it's back like a boomerang. And looking at what you're giving to Poles and Poles, you have to remember it again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Attention, because a dangerous crew is going after your wallets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u306	Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fuel levy is not only about stealing from Poles, but also about interfering with the forest fund, which is intended to include. Protecting the woods, which you of course You don't understand, and you finance research. The proposed rules are intended to allow funding from the forest fund of roads, even those not related to forests. From the money earmarked for forests, i.e. for nature conservation, the state wants to support the development of infrastructure for cars, and this is also justified by the fact that it is easier to export wood from the wood cut to the forest power. The justification that forest vehicles also use these roads is absurd because they are used by everyone. It's a good thing you don't want to finance road construction out of health money just because ambulances also drive the roads. Answer the question: Why do you really need the money? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u308	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I want to ask about all the promises made by Law and Justice in the election campaign, about swearing reality and denying that ever and in any way the government planned to raise the fuel levy. And what do we have today? A project that's just introducing it. And today, again, let the Prime Minister's words sound strong: if you hadn't stolen, you would have had enough money for everything and enough for everything. Don't you feel that these words are prophetic to the state? We should be outraged today, talking about falsehood, hypocrisy, but we're not surprised anymore, and we probably won't be surprised anymore, because you lied and cheated in the election campaign, you lied and cheated now, and you'll do it now, you'll lie and cheat, ladies and gentlemen, because that's just who you are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u310	Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Whoever gives and receives, he gets carried away in hell. That's how you guys act. With one hand you give away 500+, the other you reach deeper and deeper into the pockets of Polish families. Bank fee, OC, energy, gas, coal. You raised VAT, you raised PIT, because there are frozen thresholds, revenue costs, as well as costs for water and water services. [[Amount's free.]] Water laws are coming back today. And then there's the road tax. Mr Dolata, not until summer, and your party will go to hell. [[Applause]] [[Weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u312	Mr President, you have not shown good upbringing. [[You, too, many times.]] Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u313	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Beata Szydło from this place, not only from this place, which has been quoted many times, said that enough for everything is enough not to steal. In this line of thinking, Prime Minister Szydło, I would like to ask: Why do you, the Law and Justice lack money, why do you lack money to build roads? [[Who's stealing?]] And a suggestion, ladies and gentlemen. When you participate on the 10th day of the next month in a religious act, because that is what you call this event, remember the Decalogue, with particular regard to the seventh commandment: do not steal. And let me add that lying is a sin, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u314	Member of Killion Munyama, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Did you know that the student will pay more not only for public transportation, but also for beer, for kebab, for pizza? Behavior... Practically here, the ruling party resembles a story about a scorpion and a frog. The scorpion comes to the frog and asks her to transport him to the other side of the river. Then the frog asks the scorpion to bite her. And he's stubbornly saying no, because it's illogical, because they're both drowned. The frog agrees, and then the scorpion decides to bite the frog along the way and both drown. The frog is Poles, and the scorpion is you for what you're doing today. [[Applause]] Is the applicant for... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u316	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the founding Members of this law today, it was possible to get the impression that the sovereign was very happy that you wanted to make their country happy with the new tax, reach into their pockets, take their money. Why don't you take a break from this sovereign? [[The planes are doing their job.]] Maybe it's worth going to a gas station right now, talking to people and seeing if they really want to. 100 km south, in Radom, the president of the Civic Platform, whose voivode has extinguished his mandate, builds, without looking in taxpayers' pockets. So, ladies and gentlemen, maybe it's worth going back to society and asking if that's what he wants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u318	Member Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I, too, hope that the Minister from this stand will present the position of the government regarding this bill. I would like to address my question to the Minister. In the title of the Act we are talking about local roads, the state is talking about local roads, but in fact only local roads, municipal roads and district roads can be financed under this law. It is not possible to finance reconstruction and construction of voivodship roads, except bridges along the voivodship road, but also some. Why don't you want to finance the voivodship roads? I don't know, maybe today you know that you're gonna lose the local elections, the voivodeship elections, and you don't want to finance not yours. Think about it, however, maybe it's worth thinking about and including voivodship roads in this catalogue of roads that can be financed under this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u320	Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you know that by introducing this toll, which is really road tax, you are introducing an indirect tax that will hit those who are least earning, whose income is the lowest? You'll spare those who make more money. An indirect tax is a tax that is paid regardless of the amount of its income. You'll hit the most, for example. In seniors. Today you say you gave them free meds, so I'm telling you, these free meds are PLN 6.90 a month for every senior. Now that you're introducing road taxes, you're gonna put them on the ticket price. Just that much, the amount of PLN 6,90 they receive, you will receive. They're gonna lose the most. Tell the seniors it's gonna be more expensive for their public communications to go to the market, to the doctor, to their grandchildren. Do you know that it is the poorest, least earning road tax that you will charge the most? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u322	Member of Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the circumstances of this bill. Is it true that the PiS Members signed the blank project on a blank sheet without knowing the content of the project? Are these the new working standards at the PiS club? [[That's how they always do it.]] [[That's not true.]] Of course, the Member will say so, but... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u324	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u325	Exactly. Next question. If this is such a good project, then why did only 60 people sign it, and even less well-known members at the club? It's only a quarter of the club. Do you PiS Members, who, like Mr Dolata, have signed up for this project, have the honour to lend your face, your name to the new tax you intend to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to burden the Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u326	Thank you now. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u327	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Dolata! The Himalayas in your hypocrisy contained in the explanatory memorandum to the bill are really small hills. [[Applause]] I am surprised that Mr Rzońc joined the demagogical arguments. You have linked the initiative to increase taxes and security on Polish local roads. You know perfectly well that the basic movement, more than 60% traffic, taking place on Polish national roads. There's most accidents out there. Besides, the number of accidents has been falling for over a decade, there are fewer casualties, fewer people are dying. You know that. [[Count it, sir. Check it out, sir.]] I would like to ask you about the well-being of Minister Szmit, if he feels well as a gravedigger of Polish transport, and Minister Adamczyk... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...or forgot that last year he promised there would be no tax increases. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u328	Thank you. Mr President, step out of the podium. [[And why do you turn it off halfway, Marshal?]] Discipline of work, sir. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u329	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! If the economy is as good as it is and the economy is in perfect condition as the Law and Justice say, why once again - after the rise in bank charges, after the increases in insurance prices, after the increases in electricity prices, gas prices - you reach for billions of zlotys to the pockets of all Poles so-called. petrol + 25% programme ? From this point on, I would like to appeal to President Jarosław Kaczyński. I know we all know that the president doesn't have a driver's license and doesn't drive, but at the last meeting of the Sejm, he saved his cat and other animals from the oppressors. [[Applause]] I appeal from this place, Mr President, please save the Poles and Poles from further increases, because just like you... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in 2011 you will not burden citizens with increases. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u330	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're trying to justify this tax increase in road construction. And when it comes to road construction, it's from the plan for 2,000. We built 1900 km of highways. The same is true for express roads. As far as local roads are concerned, we have built several thousand kilometres of roads. [[It doesn't even have that much.]] And you, what is your work after 2 years of government in the field of road construction? As for two things: taxes and road construction, success will be in raising taxes, it will be your only success. [[You should be happy.]] Don't mix a serious case of road construction with your rude tax raise. [[Applause]] As for what is happening here today, this is the beginning of the long road you start, raising taxes. Today everyone can see that the budget will be insanely troubled, that something is beginning that will be terrible for all of us: budgetary problems and economic problems are beginning. What you're doing will have a negative impact on the economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u333	Mr. Marshal! They're in blind caps today, but I'll welcome the President and the Prime Minister too. Something blurry has faces today. [[But you're funny.]] Yeah, I'm very precise because I see ministers buried a little bit, so guerrilla. You're up, Minister. Very well. Why do you make such a guerrilla raise for Poles, so expressive, extraordinary? The Sejm was supposed to be sitting next week. Then you extended this session to Friday, and you're so afraid of the sovereign's faces at the gas station that you're downloading MPs today to get to the wallets of Poles very quickly. Why are you hitting those less affluent people, those who don't drive armored beemwits for 3 billion zlotys, these supercars, that fleet you bought yourself, Minister, those people who tank gas for a few dozen gallons, about 40 liters of gas. Gas prices, ladies and gentlemen, also... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...they're up. It's barbaric. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u334	Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If only to stop with the statements of the rapporteur and the statements of the Members of the Law and Justice, in principle this law should be called the Treaty on the Happiness of Poles, because for so little, i.e. for 20 gr, you can have not only better roads for car users, but also better bicycle paths, you can have a large and in good condition a car that will not require repair, you can have cheaper, longer used tires, you can also have cheaper OC insurance policies. It's just luck if you believe the message that's coming from this side. If you can have so little, I think that the path you are going could be much more simple with the help of the mentors and authorities that the rapporteur mentioned. One of them is undoubtedly Mr Wojciech, President Wojciech Jasiński. If he says he can pay 4 or 5 billion to the budget with an easy gesture, then introduce a fuel tax or a donation... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... Orlen and Lotus and it'll be done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u336	Mr Tomasz Kostus, Civic Platform. [[Perhaps the thought could end, Mr. Marshal.]] There's nothing interesting to say, unfortunately. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're kidding me.]] But we listen to it over and over again. Yeah, same thing. [[Mr. Marshal, but you don't give a damn about the Members saying they have nothing to say.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, how can you?]] It's 1 minute, you have to follow discipline, fit in a minute, it's a lot of time. [[Voice from the room: There is some standard of behaviour of marshals.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u337	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Before the elections, during and just after the elections, the leaders of Law and Justice made it easy and easy to assure Poles that they would build better, better, cheaper and faster. They were talking about how they had a way of knowing how to do it, unlike the dilettators and scandalists in the Civic Platform. What's the effect, we all see. The best evidence is the 2016 road safety report. The best proof is also an example of Opole Voivodship. For a year and a half, nothing was done, no kilometer of road was built, no bypass was built. And the question... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Mr. Member, and the ring road... I saw you there.]] Minister, let me remind you that the Niemodlin and Myśliny ring road was included in the national road construction program 3 years ago and with great fireworks one of the ministers announced its implementation. Question: "If the only investors at the moment in terms of road construction are marshals... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the self-governments of voivodships, then why were the roads removed from the voivodship? That's the question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u338	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club. And thank you, sir, you have finished your statement. [[But halfway through the closing sentence.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u339	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I'm sorry because I feel like you're punching Mr Sasin in the most unwanted bill you're signing with your name. By the way, do you know how many articles this bill has? Because Sasin didn't know how much his bill had. Well, how much? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[There you go.]] Oh, a riddle, a serious riddle. 43 articles. [[I'll answer that.]] Do you know which one is the most important? Art. 29. Do you have any idea why he's dangerous? 'Cause you say road toll, and this article imposes a toll, that's the charge. What categories and what companies? For producers, importers, but also distributors of these fuels. And did you know that fuel distributors often deliver this gas, which is an autogas, to the country to fuel their homes? Did you know that the same gas is used by people in the country? Because he's the cheapest, because he's for the poorest. And for them, the increase will be a dozen percent, not a 6-percent increase, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the fee is constant. Do you know that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u340	The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u341	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Harvesting behind the belt, sowing, autumn work. Nice gift for farmers - increased costs. The increase in food prices is inevitable, absolutely. In the case of tourists, matters relating to transport, movement. You have no idea how to make money other than through taxes, money for all your benefits and their hybrids. You can see the nervous search for money - see, for example, Water Law. Try your business genius to make the economy money, make the climate for economic growth. Try harder. 98% time in this room is only about spending, not talking about money at all, about getting it. You can see how hard this is. Is it true that this tax was not intended for voivodship roads? Congratulations to young Mr Rzepecki. Keep up the good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u342	Now please take the floor of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of words came out here. Unfortunately, most of them missed reality, often missed the truth. The arguments that life checks... Hard data checks and indicates that these are the arguments that should not fall here, from this speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fuel price chart from 2012, 2013, 2014. [[Ha, ha, ha, well, what does that say?]] Do you remember when the gas cost no small six zlotys at the gas stations? You guys remember, okay. [[Do you know the word "relativism"?]] That's what I'd like to remind you of. If you are talking about the fact that this project will be of no use to anyone, here is a letter from the association of Polish municipalities and powiats, I recommend reading - asking for funds for the modernisation of local roads - or the position of the XX General Assembly of the Polish Districts Association. The National Road Chamber supports this project. [[Voice from the room: Is that why you have to rob people?]] [[What about the drivers?]] Among your colleagues, one of your fellow Members is a member of the National Road Chamber. [[Voice from the courtroom:...not from the taxpayer's pocket.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen... They support this project exactly. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a question... [[Voice from the room: Where's the funding from?]] Will the Member be gracious? You're also an MP? Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a question about the government's position. Formally, the government's position is being prepared. Of course, the High House will be briefed on this position of the government. One thing is certain: the government is negative about this project, the government sees the positive side of this project. And now some data, because they are necessary here, and this is a compendium of knowledge, which you should also equip yourselves with when we talk about this project. 90% roads in Poland are municipal and district roads. Providing support for the financing of reconstruction, modernisation of these roads is for many years an unfulfilled request, a request made by local governments. Only in this year 560 applications led by municipalities and 817 applications led by powiats, applications for financing modernisation, reconstruction of roads, were not taken into account. Why? Because there wasn't enough funding. To the Ministry of Infrastructure, also to fellow Members, but to the Ministry of Infrastructure - we counted - came, more than 2 000 were sent. letters, petitions, requests, appeals, various types of destitutes, memorials in various forms. The objective was one: to increase the financing of aid for the modernisation of municipal and district roads. [[Voice from the room: Not from the taxpayer's pocket.]] Among these proposals, 560 municipal applications... or otherwise: among these 560 municipal applications and 817 district applications not included in 2017 are not counted those projects which could be carried out by municipalities, but these low-income municipalities simply do not have any money to do so. And you know it. Hence the tons of hypocrisy that here were kind of thrown out by the speakers in this room. It shouldn't happen today, because you're acting against this project, and you're acting against local governments. And that's what I wanted you to know, [[Applause]] And that's what you should know. [[Voice from the room: This is hypocrisy.]] You are acting against local governments, and most of you have come out of these local governments. You will have to respond to meetings in municipalities and districts... [[We'll answer that.]] ...the wars, the mayors and the councilmen... [[We can do this.]] [[And what will the Minister say to the residents?]] ...why you're blocking this process. [[Voice from the room: Why did you take the money...]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Self-Government Road Fund, as has already been said here, will finance projects for the modernisation and reconstruction of district and municipal roads. It is not true, it is a lie, what you often say in the media, that these funds will finance various other projects. Most of you know perfectly well that the national road fund cannot be breached or that the national Self-Government Road Fund will not be affected if it is not literally related to the objectives set out. You know that very well. For public use, public debate, you're just saying the wrong thing, you're telling a lie. That's just the way it is, and that's the way it's supposed to be. One Member said that people are subject to accidents on national roads in principle. [[Of course.]] Dear Member, last year there were 15 000 on local, municipal and district roads. accidents. More than 1,000 people died. persons on local roads. It's not nothing. This is the scale of the misery that must finally be prevented. And you know it. [[Voice from the Chamber: And that's the argument for raising taxes?]] And if one of the Members asks why there are no voivodships, I answer. Do you know why there isn't? Because you didn't include them in the program that was implemented in previous years, you didn't include the voivodeship roads, so don't ask me why you didn't include these roads. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 2 years!]] [[Start doing something, not talking.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[But there are bridge crossings, so...]] But there are bridge crossings. I am very pleased that Mr Dolata, Mr Rzońc, Members are able to oppose this hat and are able to oppose this attack... [[It is your Member, from the PiS, who opposes this bill.]] ...are able to resist this attack in order to prevent these disasters, to finally change completely the reality on local roads. In one year, next year, it will be allocated from PLN 2.5 billion to PLN 3 billion from the national fund for local government roads. If you add the funds that will be taken out of your municipalities' budgets, it will be about PLN 5 and 6 billion. Who will be the beneficiary? Self-government. But who's gonna do the work? Polish micro-, small and medium-sized construction companies. [[Applause]] The ones that can't take on big projects, the ones that can't win highway projects. [[Is that why 50% of the national roads go?]] Ladies and gentlemen, in one year or in two years, using this fund, and it pains you the most, you will be able to rebuild as many local roads as you have rebuilt in two terms. Ladies and gentlemen, change your rhetoric, do not act against Polish governments... [[But it is your Member, from the PiS, who is against this bill.]] ...do not act against Polish society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u344	Thank you very much. Representative of the applicants, Mr Zbigniew Dolata. You're welcome, sir. [[Grabers of Polish transport.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u345	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's a lot of questions here in this room. Some of these questions were answered by the Minister. I would like to start with such reflection, and this is a sad reflection that during this debate very many opposition Members have shown themselves to be extremely selfish, extremely selfish and extremely populist. In fact, sometimes you feel that you are treating the Polish state and problems of Poles as something foreign and external and unable to lean on the most burning problems that need to be solved. Unfortunately, we have much of these problems as a decline after your governments. We need - as citizens of the Republic of Poland - a civil ethos, such a feeling that the state is ours and that the problems we have, we should solve ourselves, that the citizen has rights, but also has responsibilities. [[That's why citizens need to be robbed.]] Now I'm going to answer a few literal questions because most of them repeated themselves. I will begin with the question of Mr Grabarczyk, Minister of State... [[Don't name names.]] ...who mentioned the infrastructure programme for Schetynówki in 2008 and stated that 14 thousand had been built. km of roads. [[Four thousand more. for your governments, a total of 18,000.]] Compare this with what we say, that thanks to the implementation of this programme, which provides for the bill, about 6 000 will be built annually. km of municipal and district roads. That's the scale you're afraid of. 'Cause why this massive attack on the project? That's because you understand that this is a project that will have similar effects as in the family policy of the 500+ programme. This will be the scale of changes in road infrastructure, municipal and district roads. [[Applause]] [[You have a sense of humor.]] And one more question, by the way. One of my fellow Members, Mr Maciej Masłowski, said that the bill is bad, cited an example of the municipality of Radośl on San, which has been waiting for the road for eight years. Yeah, there are municipalities that have been waiting for roads for eight years. [[Applause]] [[Why didn't this guy apply for a schematic?]] And she's asking if she'll be able to build this road now. Yes, it will be able to be built, not only in the municipality of Radośl, but also in other municipalities and districts throughout Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u346	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 41 hours 15 min 17]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the present meeting of item 25, a motion for a vote of distrust to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgiel, i.e. prints 1690 and 1724. This motion will be examined by the Sejm at its next meeting. [[Applause]] The formal proposal was made by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 I would like to make a formal request for a break. Today, the PiS decides once again that two laws are being introduced under the Sejm, which will destroy the independence of the judiciary. These are the Act on the Stubbornness of the National Courts and the Act on the Removal of Presidents of the Courts. After these two laws have been put into effect... However, the existing justice system, although imperfect and requiring reform, was based on the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, while what you propose, the consequences of the implementation of these laws, will be a situation where - we can compare this to the outcome of the match - an independent arbiter will not decide, but they will decide the supporters of one of the parties. The result of the match will be known from above. This will be a grieving situation for the citizens. [[And the chickens will stop carrying.]] Once these laws are in place, judgments will no longer be given on the basis of law and within the limits of the law, but they will actually fall on the basis of the influence of the various parties. The judgment of the court will be determined by better knowledge of whether or not with any other policy of the PiS, not for example. collected on evidence, not legal provisions. The power of argument will no longer matter, but the power of knowledge will really matter, because what you are creating is the destruction of the independence of the courts, will ultimately destroy the democratic rule of law, which is Poland, and in its place within a few years there will be a clan state - the clan state in this case controlled by one clan, composed of barons and prominent PiS politicians, in which the word of the President will constitute the law and its opinion will replace the judgment of the court. Stand down from these laws. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u348	This proposal will be included in the group of formal proposals, which were also submitted earlier, at the beginning of today's meeting. It is a formal request for an adjournment, as well as a adjournment of the sitting. I will put these proposals to the vote in turn. We proceed with the vote on the request for an adjournment. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 173 voted against - 223, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the motion to adjourn the sitting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 185 voted against 225, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice asked for items to be added to the agenda: - Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws - Third reading, printing Nos 1423, 1555 and 1555-A, - Report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws - Third reading, print No 1491, 1591 and 1591-A. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the addition of these items to the agenda. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed to the vote on the proposal to supplement the agenda with a third reading of the draft law on amending the Act on the National Judicial Council. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 225 voted against - 191, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We are voting on the proposal to supplement the agenda with a third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 226 voted against 192 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws (Prints No. 1423, 1555 and 1555-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u349	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 8 June 2017, a meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights was held. The subject of the meeting was the examination of amendments to the draft law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts notified at second reading. An application for rejection of the draft law and 11 amendments were submitted. The Commission recommends that the High House reject the proposal to reject the draft law and that amendments 1 to 3 and 7 to 11 be rejected. The Commission proposes to adopt amendments 4, 5, and 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u350	Thank you. We will vote first on minority proposals and the amendments tabled in this additional report. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is raised by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask how the PiS intends to convince us that in 1989 the Stalinist theory of the functioning of the state and law was wrong, but in 2017 it is already good. President Kaczyński, in 1989, you spoke at the meeting of one of the tables of the round table: However, this was a principle very strongly connected with this - hopefully - in an era that's already gone. This was the principle of the system existing in Poland in the last 40 years. [[Don't scream.]] It was just part of Stalin's theory of state and law, from which we should leave in all areas. Mr President, by adopting this act on the stubbornness of the National Judicial Council, does the PiS simply want to tell us: democracy has failed, and the Stalinist theories will work? Why did you warn me when you were 39 years old... [[Don't yell!]] ...before the dictatorial rules of the state, and now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the age of almost 70, do you follow the straight path to the dictatorship? [[Applause]] [[Don't yell!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u352	Thank you, Member. I would like to point out to you that the questions should be addressed to the representative of the government or the rapporteur. [[And don't yell.]] The rapporteur, I remind you, is Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. [[I'm the D.A. of the rapporteur.]] Mr Rober Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This whole project meets all the criteria of what is called legislative lawlessness in doctrine. It is a project which is in clear contradiction with the constitution, with the values and legal principles laid down in the Constitution. This project should not be prosecuted at all, but is a government project. Why did you design such an unconstitutional project? Why do you want to carry out a project in July during your vacation that destroys the constitutional principle of separation of executives and judicial authority? Why do you want to destroy the independence of the judiciary? This project is a project that should not be procedated at all. He violates the standards of the Polish constitution, actually changes the constitution. He will have to be expelled - so once democracies dealt with the laws of authoritarian states that had to be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Deleted to restore democracy. This is legislative lawlessness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u354	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The changes proposed by the PiS in the KRS will have an impact on the judiciary by the legislative authority. In extreme cases this will lead to a situation where Kowalski is right to judge, for example. with the representative of the ruling party, but he will lose despite his claim, because the ruling judge will be aware that this legislative authority decides the fate of the judiciary, including the judge. Question: "Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, that this is pathology, violation of the constitution, denial of the three divisions of power?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u356	I remind you that I ask you to ask the rapporteur or the representative of the government. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a very brief question, indeed, to the rapporteur, Mr Peterowicz. Is there room in your legal knowledge for this textbook? This is Beck's Large Comments, comment on the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. On page 1123 of Volume II you can find very rich, very interesting and very serious studies of various legal authorities, professors of constitutionalists as to the functioning of the National Council of Courts. They allow the possibility of changing the shape of this council, but as for one thing, the term of office is simple: the term of office of the elected members lasts 4 years, which means that this group of members of the council, elected by the Judges, cannot be revoked before the end of the term of office. Very simple and unambiguous recording. Do you guys read at all? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That kind of textbooks? Are you familiar with modern professional legal knowledge? [[Applause]] [[It's not a library.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u358	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 168 votes against - 230 and 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the National Judicial Council of the applicant in the new wording, inter alia. Article 2 11 and 13 propose other provisions concerning the election of members of the Board. This proposal brings together minority proposals 2 and 3, from 5 to 7 and 9. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 4 and 8 and amendments 1 to 9 and 11. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Szczerba, Member of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are all living today on the issue of increasing the fuel tax, but this law is the most important act, because it is about total destruction of the constitutional body, which protects the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the courts. Mr. Marshal always asks for a question, so the question will be at your request. Does the rapporteur know the opinion of the European Network of Judicial Councils, which stressed on 30 January 2017, that the mechanism for appointing members of the Council elected from among judges must be a system which excludes interference by the executive or legislative authority? Does the rapporteur know the opinions on this matter from the judicial councils of Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, England, Scotland and Ireland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u360	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u361	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I do not know why you - this question - reject amendments that civilise a little at least this law on the choice of judges. And a little description: The judge should be just, but objectivity has its limits where the cause of the nation is concerned. The living interests of the nation must be put absolutely above the formal law. The future law can't depend on a letter. or the paragraph, it will only be possible to reach him by the character of the judge. The future judge will not be governed by the law or by the law. In the future, the State will be able to demand that his and his people's interests be at the same time the basis of judicial objectivity. Mr Kaczyński, this is not a description of Warsaw of two thousand... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Who?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u362	Mr President, I am very sorry to ask you questions in accordance with the rules of procedure, the relevant Members and representatives of the Government. [[He's asking a question.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 1 to 3, from 5 to 7 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 166, against 227, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Amendments 1 to 6 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council. In the first amendment of the applicant in the new wording of Article. 10 propose that the Sejm elect 15 members of the Council from among the judges referred to in this provision by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Accepting it will result in the unobjectability of Amendment 2. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, that bill is bad, we all know. And I think he should know the PiS as well. The fact that the bill before was bad, we also know. On the other hand, we do not really understand, and we cannot agree with this, why the State, when it comes to the choice of the National Judicial Council by the Sejm, does not want to vote on the judges by a two-thirds majority. In fact, it would be the only way for the judges to be stubborn. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u364	Thank you. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! It's a black day for Poles and Poles, it's a black day for Poland. It is not enough that today we are dealing with two projects, which mean draining Poles' pockets, mean less security for them, fuel tax and water-related issues, but at the same time you are destroying the most important security, the security that comes from the rule of law, is security that determines that we are equal to the law. Destroying the KRS is destroying the foundation of the rule of law. This is the destruction of what decides that Kowalski is treated just as much as someone with the legitimacy of law and justice. I would like to say that this day should cause that even if you did not do anything else throughout your term of office, Poles should settle you and never elect you to Parliament again. This day is a black day for Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u366	However, I would ask for questions, Madam President, because it was rather a form of statement. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 192 votes against 226 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment of the applicant in the new wording of Article. 10 propose that the Sejm elect 15 members of the Council from among the judges referred to in this provision by a majority of 3/5 votes. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to mention to you a statement by Judge Jerzy Stepnia, former President of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2013, in which he regrets insufficient judicial control in Poland. There is no direct control of the nation over the judges. Control is through the national judicial authority, through Parliament. There are civil committees in the United States that control judges. I really liked it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you don't agree to 2/3. I'd like to know why you wouldn't agree to a 3/5? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u368	Thank you. Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[In English, Kinga, in English.]] Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u369	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister Warchoł came to the Congress of Polish Lawyers, explaining the need for change in the KRS, the fact that the Communists had to be disposed of. Mr. Minister, Mr. President, the Communists are yours to get out of your ranks. After all, not anyone other than Stanisław Piotrowicz, the Prosecutor of the Polish People's Republic, today is the face of judicial reform in Poland. [[Applause]] You're saying we need to reform the KRS because one judge broke the law. That doesn't mean all judges are breaking the law. And here's an example: If one of the PiS Members beats his wife and tells his mistress to have an abortion... [[How about the Platform?]] ...that doesn't mean you're all asking your lovers to have an abortion. [[Applause]] It's horrible that I have to explain it from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u370	Madam, for the first time, I would like to draw your attention to the point. [[Well, that was the point.]] Please perform, speak as questions at this point. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u371	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of Law and Justice! First you let the President subpoena a political tribunal, and now your vote is that the President wants to do the same with the courts. And all of this, you want to pretend that you're introducing some kind of pluralism in the selection of candidates, giving a wider group the opportunity to submit candidates. But it is really all about bringing an assessment of the candidates for political evaluation so that you can use the KRS exactly the same way you are using the Constitutional Tribunal today, so to send there for decision and opinion all the inconvenient and unconstitutional new rules that will change our system or will be a whip to opposition politicians or other uncomfortable citizens for you. Mr. President... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u372	Madam, I ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u373	Are you sure this is what you want... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u374	Madam President, I would like to point out to you that you are not speaking on the subject and are not referring to Members who are authorised to do so. [[But don't review, no.]] I draw your attention, ma'am, for the first time, in accordance with the rules of procedure. Please take the example from Mr Jachnik, who referred to the second amendment and did not speak in general. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But I was talking about this amendment.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 196 voted against, 224 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and to Article 2 12 applicants propose, inter alia, that the Sejm elect members of the National Judicial Council from among candidates notified to the Sejm marshal by the entities referred to in that provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 4. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u375	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you questions. What is the purpose of the catalogue of entities which are entitled to apply for candidates for KRS members, of bringing together prosecutors' associations and a group of at least 20 prosecutors? And is it true that only so that candidates for candidates are expected by Zbigniew Ziebra, the Attorney General, who is the superior of all prosecutors and can give these prosecutors orders? So what if the judges, the lawyers, or the lawyers report candidates? In fact, those who have been reported by prosecutors acting in accordance with their superior's instructions will be considered. These candidates will then be picked up by the Bureau, where the PIS dominates, or 50 PIS Members and will be elected by a simple majority to the National Courts. At every stage of this process, you put your hand on it and pretend... [[You've got a hand.]] ...that you're democratizing [[♪ The bell ♪]] the selection process for judges to the National Courts of Justice. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u376	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u377	...this is a totalitarian jump on the KRS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u378	Thank you, sir. Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[In English, Kinga.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u379	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! PiS has been trying to undermine authority from the very beginning, and now this authority is the law elite. And they're a threat to you because it's the only elite that can threaten you today. You want to get rid of the elite and, of course, bring in your own. But who are your elites? Judge Crysey. Maybe my generation doesn't know who Judge Crystal was, but I'll remind my generation. Well, the judge who was your vice minister of justice... [[When, in what years?]] ...convicted Bronisław Komorowski for having the courage to oppose the People's Republic of Poland. He had courage and didn't sleep. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u380	Madam President, for the second time, I would like to point out that you have spoken on an irregular basis. [[Mr. Marshal, don't embarrass yourself.]] [[Voice from the room: We still have freedom of speech.]] Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u381	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! My question is again addressed to the rapporteur and, at the same time, to the President of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. If the committee is a committee, Human rights, too, should listen to the voice of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, a much wider, broadest organisation established in the Western world to respect human rights and the rule of law in countries belonging to this organisation, and Poland certainly belongs to it. Well, is there an opinion that was issued on March 29 and which I quote in passages? The proposed changes raise serious concerns about the fundamental principles of democracy, in particular the division of authorities and the independence of the judiciary. The automatic termination of the term of office of 15 Judges, currently members of the National Judicial Council, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the bill would constitute direct interference with the guarantees of independence available to that duly constituted State body. Such a provision would also be in breach of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this opinion known...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u382	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u383	...and is the conclusion calling for withdrawal from this project also known? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u384	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The term of office of the members of the National Judicial Council cannot be extinguished by ordinary law. This is constitutional matter, so the ordinary bill is ineffective here. In order to effectively expire these term of office, it would be necessary to amend the Constitution. We're all aware of that. The draft law provides for the expiry of the current term of office of the members of the KRS 30 days after the entry into force of the Act. Even if it is accepted that the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal allows early termination of the term of office, I would ask the rapporteur to indicate where we are dealing with specific circumstances which would justify the expiry of the current term of office of the members of the National Court of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u386	Thank you. The rapporteur does not want to speak. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 231, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants shall propose that groups of at least 25 judges or prosecutors be entitled to report the Judges referred to in that provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a very concrete and substantive question for the rapporteur. The Act introduces two types of KRS meetings. The first consists, as we know, of Members, Senators, Minister of Justice, representative of the President and President of the Supreme Administrative Court. The second is 15 judges. The examination of the procedure for the selection of judges shows that, in this situation, the votes of the parliamentarian correspond to 1.33 votes of the judge. How does this come about? diversity of size, importance in terms of votes of parliamentarians and votes of judges? Is there a formal basis here? I do not find it in the Constitution, I do not find it in particular in the article. 187 basic law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u388	Thank you. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[How's the agency?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You want to make a cosmetic change with this amendment, because you want to increase the number of judges who can apply... Just note that the Polish judiciary for your cause is in a deep collapse. There are more than 3 million pending cases still in 2016. More than 700 judges are unattended, i.e. 7% the number of all judges, because the minister does not announce competitions for judges' positions, because he wants the National Court Council, politicized, properly subordinated to President Kaczyński, to put party nominates there. You want to destroy the Polish justice system because you want to put your party colleagues there. Why are you destroying the Polish justice system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u390	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for President Matusiewicz as rapporteur. You have rejected, as a majority, the proposal of the Association of Justices of Iustitia guaranteeing such real pluralism as regards the participation of individual legal corporations in the National Court Register. Question to the rapporteur: Will you guarantee... that you will protect us from a situation in which, for example, The KRS in the future new term of office, your term of office will be dominated, for example. By military court judges and only by military court judges? I'd really like an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u392	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 239 voted against - 40, 141 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Paragraph 24 4 applicants propose a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Questions to the rapporteur. Why are you once again adopting a bill that is obviously not in line with the constitution? After all, the constitution regulates the composition of... [[This is a legislative amendment.]] ... KRS, sir. The amendment also violates the Article. 187 constitutions. I would like to mention to you, Mr President, your article. 187: The National Judicial Council consists of the first President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the person appointed by the President of the Republic, 15 members elected from among the judges of the Supreme Court, universal courts, administrative courts and military courts, four members elected by the Sejm from among the Members and two members elected by the Senate from among the senators. Mr President, it is all in the article. 187 of the Constitution, it does not need to be regulated in such a disgraceful way by the law and the amendment you are proposing. [[Applause]] [[Amendment 5 is legislative.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u394	Thank you. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u395	Mr. Marshal! This amendment is legislative and we will support it. What is more important, however, is what is in this bill and what is in this project. The selection of 15 judges of the members of the National Judicial Council by the Sejm is included in this project. We as Sejm have no right to do this. This law provides for the expiry of the term of office of the current members of the National Courts Council. We don't have the right to do that. In this bill there is a division of the National Judicial Council into two bodies. We don't have the right to do that. This law also provides for the delegation of powers to elect judges to the President of the Republic of Poland. We don't have the right to do that, and he doesn't have the right to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u396	I would ask you to ask me for a question because I did not hear the question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 365, against - 25, with 32. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 31d applicants propose that no appeal should be granted from the resolution of the National Judicial Board on the issue of the candidate's assessment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u397	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In this amendment, you propose that no appeal should be granted from the resolution of the National Courts on the issue of the candidate's assessment. Since the beginning of Minister Ziobra's reign, more than 700 judges have not been filled. Isn't it that you finally stopped this process because you predicted that this very bad bill would come into force? Isn't it that the whole bill is mainly about the fact that, as every citizen and citizen gets in their car - whose insurance costs have increased, thanks to the state, where the fuel costs will increase, thanks to the state - and will meet a limousine of the government, which takes care of them, regardless of whose fault it is, it is known that the punishment will always happen to the citizen? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u398	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 363 against - 31, 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 5 draft amending act. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments from 7 to 9 irrelevant. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the justification of the project, the project promoters indicate that entrusting the Sejm with the power to select judges to act as members of the KRS aims to increase the degree of democratisation, i.e. the participation of citizens in the cast of the State body, the KRS. I have a question: How would citizens participate in the cast of the KRS? After all, the project does not contain any elements determining the contribution of the social factor. The project does not provide for a public hearing institution, the project does not provide for the possibility for a specific group of citizens to submit candidates. This project does not increase the degree of democratisation in the cast of the National Courts. It only increases the degree of writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u400	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The entire narrative of the changes in the National Judicial Council is that you are fully consciously leading a lie on this foundation, misrepresenting the facts by manipulating the data. You are telling us that the courts must be handed over to the citizens. But at the same time, in this House, you are rejecting the proposal for a law of the Iustitia Association, which introduces the most democratic and most civic principles for the selection of members of the KRS. You say you have to depoliticize the courts. At the same time, you are introducing the rules that this political party will have a decisive influence on who will sit in the National Judicial Council, and in a moment you will authorize Minister Zioba to decide the fate of 3,000. function judges out of the 10,000th Jury. You're saying you need to rebuild your trust in the courts. You? Trust? On the day on which you raise a fee to citizens [[♪ The bell ♪]] For gas, saying you'll never pick up any...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u402	Mr... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u403	...with the mouth of the Member... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u404	Thank you very much, Mr President, but you have not referred to the 4th minority proposal, which concerns Article. 5, so I would like to draw your attention to the specific amendment in question. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u405	I have a question, it would seem quite simple, because from the boundaries of mathematics: does 4 still mean 4? Why is a four-year-old term supposed to be three years old? I do not fully understand this and I would like the applicant, the rapporteur, to explain it to me. I would also like to understand whether or not - perhaps we will propose a bill which will expire the term of office of this Sejm, Members of this Sejm. On the same principle, we can put out the term of office of Members, perhaps only some groups, I will point out which one. And the question is, do the inventors of all this realize that you are building a tool that sometime, if someone else has power, someone will use it? Do you really want the future Minister of Justice, I don't know, e.g. Judge Tuley, did he have a tool like that in his hand? Is this really a good idea? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the O.R.: I'm sure we'll use it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u406	The rapporteur? No? No. So we proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 227, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th amendment to the article. The draft law of the applicant proposes to delete paragraph 5. 1. Amendments 8 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u407	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Party, party, party. Mother party. Art. 16. The Council of the State, the Party, shall elect the Supreme Court in full formation for a period of five years. Art. 17. The Council of the State, the mother party, may choose judges from among others. Art. 18. The Council of the State, the mother party, elects individual judges as newly created posts. Art. 20. The Council of State, the mother party, dismisses the Supreme Court Judge. Finally, the mother party gives the Supreme Court rules. Ladies and gentlemen, the cards are yellow because it's been 55 years. Joseph Cyrankiewicz's Law of 1962. Why are you walking into the boots of the communists, into the boots of Józef Cyrankiewicz, copying his design? Why do you want to revive an idea that can't be revived? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you peerelling the Polish justice system? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u408	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that your question does not concern the 7th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 7. Eight and nine, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. [[Jarosław Cyrankiewicz.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 166 votes against - 229, 27 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 10 draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment we are talking about concerns the deletion of the article. Ten projects. Art. 10 makes it possible to purge among the employees of the Office of the National Judicial Council. You have also applied a similar solution to the Civil Service Act. In accordance with this provision, the National Judicial Council shall, within 30 days of the beginning of the term of office, establish the limit of employment at the Office of the National Judicial Council and the general working conditions and wages of the staff of the Office of the National Judicial Council. The President of the National Judicial Council may, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act, present to the Head and the staff of the National Judicial Council the new working and pay conditions. If the head and staff of the Office of the National Judicial Board are not presented, the employment relationship shall expire at the end of that period. I have a question for the rapporteur. What are the reasons for this provision? Why do you want to, to put it bluntly, fire office employees? If not, then why the recipe? Don't you think firing people is the only reason [[♪ The bell ♪]] To hire others, his own, is he just a bastard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u410	Thank you. Will the rapporteur want to? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 229, with 26. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th minority proposal and the 11th amendment to Article. The 12th draft law of the applicant proposes to amend the provision on the entry into force of the law. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u411	Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask Mr Kaczyński a question. Can you give us... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u412	No, sir, ask the rapporteur a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u413	...the 15 names that will be selected to the National Judicial Council? [[Applause]] [[Voice out of the room: Shut it down!]] We all know in this House that you are the headhunter. You pick them and you point them out. [[Get to the point.]] [[Marshal, what's up?]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u414	Mr President, I draw your attention. Ask questions to the rapporteur or the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u415	I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. Does the rapporteur know what names President Kaczyński has on his list? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It's a list of 15 candidates who will be elected to the National Judicial Council. I would like to make everyone aware that only President Jarosław Kaczyński will decide this. Mr. Marshal, who is, as you know, a marshal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He won't refuse you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u416	Thank you, sir. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, has the floor. And Mr Honestly, I would like to draw your attention again... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: But for what?]] [[Aren't you submissive?]] [[He's a tough-ass marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u417	Can I go now? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. You are the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. I have this question: have you already suggested that the European Court of Human Rights should reserve compensation for the penalties that will be imposed on Poland by the European Court of Human Rights for violating the article. 6th Convention for the Protection of Human Rights? Is that the kind of money you've already booked? The state is bringing about legal chaos. You want to make the KRS just quasi-KRS so that it's only filled according to the party line so that it's not filled according to the constitution. Question one more time: Did you reserve the money that will compensate citizens who will not be able to find solutions in Poland and will apply to the European Court of Human Rights? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u418	Thank you. This proposal and the amendment concerned the date of entry into force of the law, Commissioner. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority proposal and the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 167 against 226 and 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposals. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u419	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the formula of the question to the rapporteur. Are you proud? Are you proud of the fact that history has come round, that we are back to the solutions that you have promoted so well in the past era? Are you proud that once again Polish prosecutors will be able to appear in front of stubborn judges? But one thing has changed, Mr Reporter, Mr President, and above all, Prime Minister. Polish judges will apply the Polish constitution, the highest legal act. You will not break Polish judges because Polish judges have vowed to be faithful to the Constitution. [[Applause]] I promise from this place that we will restore a normal threefold division of power. We will not be deceived by your demagogy again. In a moment, you'll be on this floor convincing yourself that you're giving power to the sovereign. You lied to the voters, you introduce the PRL encore, because your mentality [[♪ The bell ♪]] that is the mentality of the PRL-owska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u420	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Unfortunately, it is regrettable to say that you are cynically deceiving the Poles by saying that your reform of changing the rules of the National Judicial Council will speed up the proceedings that are taking place will restore better control of the courts for citizens. None of this, and I don't think most of it, despite the pranks you're using here even today, as far as the procedure and order of business are concerned, is going to fall for that. Unfortunately, the truth is painful and today it will come to light that, apart from politicising this constitutional body, unfortunately nothing Poles and Poles will gain, and they will lose, and it will be released very quickly in the first better dispute with your agendas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u422	Please. I would just like to point out that we need to be in question mode, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a point: questions. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u423	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! That's how I look at the opposition - the PO, the Modern, the PSL, which speaks of the state of law... [[Kukiz isn't the opposition?]] ...about the authorities, the elites in the judiciary, and I'm just wondering if you've ever been to the courts. [[Applause]] [[We're waiting for you to be a judge.]] The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, you've had your judiciary so far, and now the same thing PiS is doing - he wants his judiciary. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in this hucpa of yours to take part. We won't. We're not voting as a whole club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u424	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u425	Mr. Marshal! Question for the rapporteur. I understand that the majority in the committee disregards the opinions of Polish constitutionalists, which are found in these comments, which I quoted at the very beginning. I understand that nothing, no internal opinions matter to you, so I try to quote the opinions of independent, international organizations to which Poland belongs. One of them is the OSCE, but I also have a letter to your marshal by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe - not the European Union and the Council of Europe. The same arguments I quoted earlier, with the Commissioner's conclusion: For this reason, I strongly encourage the Polish Parliament to reject the proposed amendments. I would like to ask, first of all, your rapporteur, whether you have also taken into account this opinion with such a clear suggestion, with a clear, negative recommendation, and your Marshal, if you would like to reply to this letter to the Commissioner. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think the best solution is either to vote against or not to take part in this vote. Because it's a disgrace. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u426	Thank you. Of course, Mr President, the answer has been given. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, is asking for the floor at the moment. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Calm down, please. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Citizens' Platform chant: Prosecutor! Prosecutor! Prosecutor!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't shout.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u427	Thank you very much for these undeserved ovations, but I am grateful to you. [[How's Jarosław Cyrankiewicz?]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It would seem that once it is enough to present some constitutional provisions and who, like someone else, will understand perfectly, and especially those who wave copies of the Constitution here every day. Well, I'm doing it with a certain disgust, because I'm going to have to do it again, but you can see that these questions that were directed at me point to doing it again. [[Because you have a constitution written in Cyrillic.]] Well, it is worth remembering, my dear country, that it is in this constitution, which is presented here as merely a copy, that is clear and clear: the sovereignty belongs to the nation. Of course, for you, as it turns out, at least for some, it is not so obvious. It is not, as it turned out, so obvious to some judges, we learned about it at the Congress of Judges. At one convention, perhaps against the plan of the organizers, we learned how well the judges are feeling, thinking of themselves as an extraordinary caste. At the second congress on the lips of a prominent law professor, we learned that it is not true what is written in the Constitution... [[Learn from the professors.]] ...that the sovereignty belongs to the nation, that the nation is a sovereign. Well, this professor at the applause of the judges said that the authority of the judiciary is a legal principle, and that compliance with these rules will be ensured by the judicial environment. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Away with the commune! Down with the commune! Down with the commune!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] I see, you're yelling at your colleagues, quite rightly. I join those voices, too. I don't understand why you want to continue...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u428	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u429	...not to obey the Constitution. I see. There's no argument, is there? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, sir, bravo!]] It's missing, so there's general passwords or invectives. That's the weakness. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u430	I urge Mr Rutnicki. Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u431	That's the weakness. [[Talk to Comrade Jarosław.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going back to the constitutional record, because this constitution... [[Write it down in your will.]] ...the state you say... [[A voice from the courtroom: and a court-martial.]] ...that the state system is based on a threefold division of power. Of course I do, but there's a cohesion between the authorities: and the balance of the authorities. This, this balance you somehow do not want to adopt, and you never rely on the need to respect the constitutional principle of balance. And now, when we are talking about respecting the Constitution, it is worth noting that if the people exercise superior power over the legislative and executive powers, then - there is no doubt - they have instruments to do so, even in the form of parliamentary elections. The question arises: What legal instrument does the nation have with regard to judicial authority? [[Elections. The president chooses.]] Turns out there's no such instrument. It is not true what you are shouting to the Member that the President is choosing. Mr. President, as you well know, he doesn't choose anything... [[Didn't he say no? Didn't he say no?]] ...because everyone... [[Cheer, cheer in the hall, applause]] Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland is probably the only country in Europe... [[Voice from the room: President chooses!]] ...who's gonna be the one who's gonna... [[Voice from the room: Mr. President chooses.]] ...judges in different judicial positions, decides the judge's environment... [[Yes, sir.]] ...because only the National Judicial Council has the right to apply to the President for a judge's nomination. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not in the countries of a well-established democracy. [[It's all over the place. Everywhere.]] I am bored to remind you: in the country of Mr Timmermans, the Minister of Justice is applying for the appointment of the judge; in Austria, the Minister of Justice is applying for the nomination; in Germany, the Federal Minister of Justice is applying for the appointment of the judge. [[Game in the O.R.]] And to make it even more interesting, the Supreme Court judges in the Netherlands choose a parliament. Did you hear there about the politicization of the judiciary? [[Applause]] There, the judiciary is satisfied with its condition. [[There's no PiS.]] But today we're talking about the National Judicial Council. [[Answer the questions! What's this?!]] You invoked, quoted the opinion of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. [[Get to the point!]] [[Voice from the hall: Please do not advertise the weekly.]] It is worth recalling that this opinion is based on false facts and misconceptions of the law. Why? For a simple reason: because the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in this opinion treats the National Judicial Council as a body of the judiciary. If she was, she'd be right, but she's not. The National Judicial Council is neither a judicial authority nor a judicial authority. You're talking about the politicization of the National Judicial Council. Well, then I guess you don't know the constitutional composition of this council. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] After all, it appears from the Constitution that the judicial council is not just made up of judges. It also consists of the Minister of Justice, four Members, two Senators, a representative of the President. It follows that the National Judicial Council, which is not, I stress, a judicial and judicial body, consists of representatives of all three authorities. The idea was for this council to be forced to draw up a consensus so that the representatives of the authorities: legislative, executive and judicial, would be forced to wipe out common positions. Meanwhile, the judges quickly counted: we are on national council 17, because 15 judges plus two presidents, who are also judges. They therefore considered that they did not have to deal with the voice of the representatives of the other authorities at all. With regard to the sovereignty of the nation, it is also worth recalling that it is implemented directly by the nation or, in accordance with the constitutional record, through its representatives, i.e. through Members and by the senators. [[Where is it directly?]] You're saying we're going to politicize the courts. And are you sure that today the courts are not politicized? They're as politicized as ever. [[Exactly. Yes, sir.]] Just look at the public statements of some judges, including the spokesperson of the National Judicial Council. [[That's right, that's right.]] Today the courts are politicized. We're going to walk away from this. This can't be right. [[But you don't change that.]] The courts have no right to engage in politics. I would also like to comment on the end of my term of office. In the Constitution there is a right for ordinary legislators, perhaps the most farthest that can be found in the Constitution. It is the ordinary legislature to determine the system of the National Judicial Council. [[But not terms. The system isn't terms.]] You will admit that no other authority has such a far-reaching authority - to determine the system. [[But it's not a term.]] Well, we in this project... Let me finish. May the Member be elegant, because I think that's what he wants to be, wait, have his time, speak, do not disturb. [[The Marshal is in the way.]] Thus, with regard to the system, no institution has such a far-reaching constitutional authority. It is the ordinary legislature to determine the system of this council, it is the ordinary legislature to finally determine how judges of the members of the National Judicial Council are to be elected. [[That was it. There was a second reading, a first reading.]] Okay, I've told you all this before, but today's questions indicate that you've forgotten these truths. According to the Constitution, since we define the system of the National Judicial Council, since we define a new way of choosing - I am almost done, Mr Marshal - we define a new way of selecting candidates for the National Judicial Council, it is justified to interrupt the existing terms of office, to interrupt them also because of the reason that the ruling before the Constitutional Tribunal says that it is permissible to terminate the term of office if there is an important public interest. We are dealing with such an important public interest today, for example, because today's terms of office do not comply with the Constitution. You know this very well, because according to the Constitution we are dealing with group terms, not individual terms. This is because of the non-constitutional rule of law that has left the constitutional principle of a group term for individual judges - the Constitutional Tribunal has recently confirmed this - and therefore these circumstances are in favour of actually re-establishing the system and the way in which the members of the National Judicial Council are elected in a comprehensive manner. To all those who still refer to different opinions, who search for needles in a haystack when it comes to the situation in Poland, it is worth noting that the same levels criticize Poland and somehow do not dare to criticize Turkey. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u432	Thank you. The Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, asks for the floor. [[D.A. Ziobro will now fix the courts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u433	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, in view of the exhaustive, and not the only, because the rapporteur's reply has already been given many times, my role here basically comes down to some additions that I would like to make to the questions that have been raised. Namely, there is no doubt that the Polish system of appointing judges is extremely undemocratic, and the question arises whether it is compatible in this sense not only with the spirit, but also with the principles of the Polish constitution, to which you so willingly and often refer, with the principle of a democratic rule of law, if these mechanisms are unfortunately not democratic, because they are based on the principles of cooptation. They are based on the principles of non-democratic co-opties, which come from before 1989, and on the basis of a compromise, actually compromise with the Communists in 1989, they have their continuation through the National Council of Judicial Affairs, which was then established and, it can be said, on the basis of continuation through co-optation, appoints new judges all the time. They do it, you can say, they do it. Who? Those judges appointed by the Communist Council of State who went to the first National Council of Courts... [[It's absurd.]] ...and later, on a coop basis, they invited and called more of their colleagues and other colleagues. One can say that the only element, the only democratic symbol in the process of appointing judges, is the President, whose role, in fact, to a notary, and therefore a figurine, one could say, in the whole process, brings today's National Judicial Council, saying that the President is just a notary. Fortunately, President Andrzej Duda shows his subjectivity and says that he is not a notary, [[Joy in the Chamber]] He's just a man who makes decisions. And this is the only light in the tunnel in democratic control of the appointing of judges. You were happy to refer to the Venice Commission, the OSCE position, but quite selectively - quite selectively, especially Mr Protasiewicz quite selectively quoted some of the positions here. So I will allow myself to supplement by referring to some of the other statements contained in the documents of those bodies which are so important and significant to you. Well, in 2014, the Venice Commission noted in one of its reports, and I quote that in the bodies of a type of judicial council there can be no total domination of judges, because it threatens to do so - what? - palism, corporateism and the creation of clicks. You can say, three times - palism, corporateism, the creation of clicks. [[Kaczynski.]] That's what the Venice Commission said. What can we say about the Polish KRS? Come on, put it on, it corresponds to that definition, because as many as 17 members of the KRS are judges. It can be said that the other KRS participants are only a flower for the goat and a meaningless element that has no real impact on the decision making there. And everyone who is a member of this body - and I am, not for the first time, for the second time - knows that it is only a corporate cooperative that decides everything itself. Not only did the Venice Commission draw attention to this problem, which is how vividly responding to the diagnosis of the situation, pathology in the Polish National Judicial Council, but also the OSCE mentioned, I quote, in one of its reports it states: At international level, it is generally recognised that judicial councils should not consist solely or to a large extent of judicial representatives in order to prevent the care of their own interests and the phenomenon of mutual defence, cooperation, allegations of corporateism. Well, what do you say? That's exactly what we're talking about. Exactly, we want to implement the OSCE and the Venice Commission's recommendations. We want to stop corporateism and put the oxygen of democracy there. [[You've already introduced it to the Constitutional Court.]] Yes, oxygen of democratic mechanisms, because Poland is a legal state, but a democratic state, not just a legal state. It's not a judiciary, it's a democracy. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] I'm going to refer to another quote, which I think should cause some MRI on your side. I quote: KRS is a state trade union that preserves the interests of the Polish judiciary badly. Who said that? You like quotes here, especially from the Independent. The ladies often come here and quote a phrase every now and then. I repeat: KRS is a state trade union that preserves the interests wrongly - wrongly - serving the Polish judiciary. That's what your authority said. [[Who?]] ...you can say guru, husband of providence, Mr. Prof. Rzepliński. Yes, Professor Rzepliński. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Bravo, Professor!]] You don't agree with him? Don't you agree? It must be written in the annals of this parliament that you disagree with Prof. Rzepliński. [[Voice from the hall: Please quote President Przyłębska.]] Not much, he said more. I quote: The media informs of a number of people's professionalism about the flawless character of corruption cases, drunken judges in courthouses, drunken judges behind the wheel of cars, judges who committed common crimes. As for some of these issues, the existing legal mechanisms... [[Who works at the PZU?]] ...correction is helpless against the power of the system - who talks about the arrangement? - and in view of the manifestations of the publicly demonstrated mentality of the besieged fortress of the most important structures of our judiciary. Professor Andrzej Rzepliński. [[Bravo, Professor!]] What an up-to-date word, though spoken... And what kind of psychic. You didn't happen to get caught up in the election gazette, by any chance? The Gazeta Wyborcza, together with Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, made such a diagnosis. [[What's going on in the U.S.A.?]] So, in one word, think about whether it's worth thinking about... [[How's your wife?]] ...your position and support our changes, because these are changes that are a remedy for the diagnosis that Rzepliński put in place, but not just him. One more quote, I'm not gonna bring up another one, because there's a lot of them, you could point them out and give them to you to think about. Does the KRS - I quote - fulfil its functions and uphold the independence of judges and the independence of courts? The KRS does not fulfil these functions. In practice, it is the place to call candidates for judges. Everyone comes in there with their candidates and makes sure they get through it. This also applies to politicians to whom the right people can reach. This isn't the best place to decide who's gonna be a judge. The KRS cares about the interests of the judicial corporation, but it is not an organ that really cares about true independence. Who's talking? President of Stupid, your next authority. Do you agree or not? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] You're saying we're violating international standards as part of our proposal. Well, we share the diagnosis I just mentioned here. Yes, I do, and here I agree with the statements of your authorities. But we're moving on. We are not just making a diagnosis that is accurate, we are looking for solutions - solutions that may not be perfect, it is true, but democracy is not perfect. Churchill said something about democracy before, and you all know his quote because it's history. It contains the essence of things. The democratic mechanisms are not ideal, but no one has come up with better ones, and that is why we refer to democracy in order to fix this, you can say, Augias' stable. Only democratic mechanisms can change that. The answer to corporateism, to clicks, to cooperatives, to these pathologies is democracy. Democracy, of course, also has flaws and limitations. Of course, I cannot rule out the fact that this time will come, hopefully it will not happen, because I wish Poland, my country, that one day you will win the election. If we are referring to democracy, we must take this into account. But there is no worse solution in my opinion than the maintenance of the clicks and rules governing this environment by cooperatives and these pathologies. I hope this never happens, I trust it will not happen, but I am convinced that democracy is not the ideal solution, but the best solution in this situation. No one's come up with a better solution. That is why we propose that judges be elected to the National Judicial Council by parliamentarians who have - you can say: disabled, you may be ashamed of it - some democratic legitimacy, because the judges who have been co-opted have no democratic legitimacy. You do, and you can answer. You also answer to the public, to the voters, you have to deal with them, and so do we. And that is the guarantee that we will not choose the judges for which we should be ashamed later, as you would have been if fate had come, if you had not done so, I hope you would not, too, hopefully, choose those whom you would have had to be ashamed of. One might ask why there are no benches here today next to Mr. Grubiński, Mr. Zbigniew Chlebowski, who used to sweat here like a mouse, standing in one of the halls because he was afraid of memories, answers to questions... [[And where is Minister July?]] ...related to gas stations, meetings at cemeteries at night with businessmen. Why isn't he here? [[And where are some of the other Members?]] Because the democratic bill would be too expensive, because the democratic mechanisms worked. And why is Mr. Milewski in the jury circle who was willing to set up a courthouse on the phone and said he would have trusted judges? Why is it here? [[Where's Judge Crysey?]] Because there are no mechanisms. [[Applause]] It wasn't worth it for you to hold on to Clebowski, because democracy works... [[Yes, sir.]] ...and in Milewski's case, the corporation, the business, the rules of the besieged fortress worked. The raven's raven won't derail. After all, this is a disgrace to the Polish judiciary, what Milewski does. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] That was in your day. What did you do to get rid of people like that? We're proposing solutions, maybe they're not perfect, but they're the only ones possible in this situation, and we need to solve this pathology that's happened. If you don't mind, and the technical devices don't fail, they say the image works harder than 1,000 words, so I'll ask for a picture, if that's possible. I hope it's clear. Well, in the first set is what you criticize. Namely, you say that we deprive judges of influence over who will be a judge in the future. Well, that's not true. Perhaps many of you have believed this, not getting into the details of these records, because Members have a lot of work and believe those who walk here and scream demagogically, but the facts are here. Well, what's this procedure supposed to look like? The Minister of Justice - just like today - announces a vacant position. Candidates report. Who? Not to the minister. To the president of the court. That's what we're proposing. The President shall manage the assessment of candidates' qualifications, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Not the Minister. The General Assembly of Judges shall give an opinion on the candidate. General Assembly of Judges. The President of the Court presents the KRS with the candidates' assessments and qualifications, which I thank very much, which he has made, among others. Judge Visitor. Where is the Minister or the Minister's officials? [[Then how did Mrs. Przylebska get here?]] Only the KRS, which is still dominated by the majority of judges, makes a choice. Not much, the candidate can finally appeal to the court, he has the right to appeal against this decision. Once again, the court decides, and only then does the case go to the president. Who can with an open head and an open head, with a sense of some elementary decency, say that we deprive judges of influence over the process of calling a judge to work? And now the second image, if you don't mind. [[Not about that!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u434	Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u435	Well... [[Voice from the hall: How many more of these paintings?]] Here's...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u436	Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u437	...I believe these paintings...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u438	Mr Rutkowski, for the second time, I urge you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u439	...to those of you who, I believe, regardless of political colors...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u440	...don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u441	...they want to get to the bottom of this before they make a decision. But I hear those voices of those who want to suppress the arguments because they're afraid of the arguments. Because the facts... [[How's the wife at the PZU?]] [[There's a leak. Excellent.]] ...they're uncomfortable. Well, that's Germany. A country to which, in particular, the Platform, Independent, is very happy to refer to its standards. How's it look out there? [[Voices from the room: Modern!]] Modern, sorry, I have to learn the name of your party because I haven't remembered yet. The Minister of Justice, as in Poland, announces a vacant position and then the candidates come forward. Where? To the president? No, to the Minister of Justice. Officials of the Minister of Justice analyze opinions about candidates. Officials of the Minister of Justice shall elect candidates and present the Minister. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Who is calling candidates?]] The unelected candidates - oh, and here is the role of the court - may appeal to the court. The Minister shall appoint a candidate for office and, after a positive assessment, only appoint him for life as a judge. Do you see the difference? [[Bravo!]] Do you see? [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Who is submitting candidates?]] The most funny thing is that German politicians led by Mr Schulz, but also the politicians of the Chadeca, tell us that we should make such laws as will take into account the participation of judges in the process of calling for future judges. I mean, really, somebody would grab their stomachs and laugh. But it shows that German shoe we know and we don't remember history very well. We, this government will not... [[Bravo!]] ...he was driving it. [[Applause]] We will make decisions that are good from the point of view of the Polish justice system, the Polish citizen. The most grotesque figure in this choir of international criticism of Poland is the figure of Mr Muiznieks, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. Well, this gentleman with extraordinary consequence accuses us that we deprive the judges of their participation in the process of the appointment of future judges, and that [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It was funny, in his own country judges appoint the Sejm, little of it, judges can cancel the Sejm, and the national judicial council is not there. That's what happens in Latvia. Those are the facts. [[Applause]] And he has the nerve and the audacity to teach us how to build, to build the rules of recruitment for the profession of judge. And that's the facts. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I often hear words about freedom here. There is no freedom without justice. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And there is no such freedom also when in the courts of Poles, seeking justice, they find arrogance and a shoe when they hear from the mouth of a prominent representative of judges instead of words of service and help - announcements about the calling or the existence of some extraordinary caste, they hear that judges stand above the law and above the citizens, instead of serving the disadvantaged and the weaker. Well, we want to change that, and we have the determination to change that. We will restore the courts to the Polish society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u442	Thank you, Minister. The formal proposal was made by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club. He pulled out, didn't he? Good. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Some Members take the ballot cards out of their readers]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1555, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 232 Members voted. The vote was 227, against - 5. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and some other laws. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Democracy! Democracy! Democracy!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Away with the commune! Down with the commune! Down with the commune!]] Thank you very much. Calm down, please. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws (Prints No. 1491, 1591 and 1591-A) - third reading. Mr Matusiewicz, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I present an additional report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. At its 43rd meeting on 8 June 2017, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1591 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after having considered the proposal and the amendments at its meeting of 8 June 2017, requests the Sejm to approve [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] requests for rejection of the bill, submitted by the Civic, Modern and European Democrats clubs, are rejected. 47 amendments have been tabled, the committee requests that 7 of them be accepted, numbered 10, 22, 23, 33, 37, 44 and 45, and that the others be rejected. The Commission requests the adoption of the law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u444	Thank you very much. Mr President, if I call you, you will make a motion. Mr... [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Mr Dunin, I am speaking to you, Mr Dunin, and I would like to point out that you are currently interfering with the proceedings. [[Voice from the room: Dunin, thank you]] [[I'd like to make a formal motion, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr President, I have heard and will call you at the right time, so please... [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion.]] Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are not constantly saying that you are making a formal request. We have heard that the committee is calling for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1591. [[Because if I were Jarosław Kaczyński, I'd get a vote.]] The Commission also presents in its additional report a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals unobtrusive. The formal proposal was made by Mr Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u445	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you, Mr. Marshal, to resume the vote because I pulled the card. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would ask you very much to include this act of my not voting during the previous vote. Thank you very much. [[Ghosts!]] [[Voice out of the room: You shouldn't have pulled it out!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u446	Thank you. The questions are asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u447	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro had just presented a very beautiful presentation, but there was one important issue. That is the new law. Minister Ziobro spoke about the presidents of the general courts who will participate in the opinion, in the submission of candidates to the KRS. Well, the law that you are trying to push right now, you want to introduce a judicial model exactly like the Polish prosecutor's office. As it ends, we can see perfectly well in cases that are in the D.A.'s office. Just because they're inconvenient to the ruling party. The bill you want to vote on now, you are returning to the worst times of the Polish People's Republic, because Mr Kaczyński should remember the words of Professor Strzembosz... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's already been done.]] ...that the emphasis on Polish judges just through the presidents of the courts... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u448	Thank you, sir. Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This speech by Minister Ziobra is the Himalayas of hypocrisy. I would like to remind you that the Minister was a minister in 2005 and 2007 and did not raise any objections as to how the judges were elected to the National Courts Council, he did not raise any objections as to its composition. What you want to do now is move away from democratic standards where judges control the actions of individual PiS politicians or politicians of other groups, and lead to a situation where politicians will control the courts. This is your goal: to create an caste that will stand above the law, an caste that will consist of PiS politicians. Your actions are already showing it. Andrzej Duda, a colleague of Mariusz Kaminski, pardons before he was convicted of a final sentence. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u450	Madam, I ask you questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u451	The caste above the law - PiS politicians. [[Applause]] [[Is this about this? Not about that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u452	I would like to point out to you that, at this point, questions should be asked. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u453	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The law on the system of common courts cannot be distinguished separately from the Act on the National School of Judicial Affairs. But I have this question: Will this bill somehow change the situation of all companies, most companies building roads that were not paid in the days of the PO? These entrepreneurs are starving today. Will there be any change in this matter? Will the situation of the trader who reported the bank's corruption and was auctioned change? Will the situation of another entrepreneur change, where today the prosecution says that the case is statute-barred, but he has to pay the bailiff for 40 years? And last but not least, aren't we leading to such a situation that we're going back to Durachówka? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u454	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u455	Thank you, Marshal. In the process of the previous project, I wanted to refer to the quotations that Minister Ziobro referred to, but we are already at the next point. So let's get back to the quotations. I would like to ask the rapporteur if you were familiar with the following quote in the committee: The fight for democratic Poland is today, above all, a fight for the state apparatus. It is necessary to fill all executive positions in the State's administrative apparatus, as well as all links of the armed forces of the nation, as well as the judiciary, people who are connected with the camp of Polish democracy with all threads. Well, this democracy, Minister, because it reminds me exactly of the words of Władysław Gomłka on 14 November 1944, before the PPR jump to full power in free post-war Poland. Exactly this quote corresponds to what you propose in the Law on the System of General Courts and how you argued the Act on taking control of the National Courts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u456	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u457	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that Minister Ziobro has given Mr suksky time with his long speech to build a quorum here, but, Minister, there was little to do with this lengthy speech. You are accusing today that in Poland the devastating harvest is being collected by the judges, but at the same time you are proposing something that is going to be called pisocracy. I would like to address the Minister with such a question. Give us at least one such tangible proof, which the average Pole will gain, the average Polish under this law amending the law on the system of common courts, because from your performance really did not result from anything for the average Pole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u458	Thank you very much. The minister was talking about the National Judicial Council. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 382 Members voted. 153 votes against, 226 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 29 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on the System of General Courts. In the first amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 9aaa. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. The question is raised by Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochock, the Civic Platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[In English.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u459	Mr President, you are not barking because I will also have to fight for your rights so that you can enter the Sejm. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Are you ready for this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! To appoint judges, not only judges, because also the presidents, vice presidents, visiting judges, head of departments, you will be able to serve as a minister of justice. I will remind you of this situation, although I would prefer to display it, like Minister Ziobro, on the screens, as a film, when Mr Jakim did not like the decision of the judge, he said that she would be threatened by a disciplinary officer. And these things are going to happen all the time now, because if he doesn't like the judge's decision, he can change the judge who will rule on him. If any of the Members' cars hit another car, as in Mr Sebastian's case, like Minister Macierewicz was passing by, then it will also be possible to choose a judge, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] who will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] He could've... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're not barking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u460	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u461	He'll be able to pick a judge. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, what is this?]] That's why it's very dangerous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u462	We'll proceed to the vote... [[Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz: Mr. Marshal, could you please?]] Minister Antoni Macierewicz, Minister of National Defence, would like to speak. There you go. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform is chanting: Agent! Agent! Agent!]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Game in the O.R.]] Calm down, will you, please? [[Moscow.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u464	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Voice from the room: Privet, Minister.]] I kindly ask you to make an application from your office to the ethics committee for the speech of the honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] For lying cynical. Thank you. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Sibir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u466	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 159, against 226, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 9aa propose an amendment concerning the limitation of the powers of the Secretary or Under-Secretary of State entrusted by the Minister of Justice. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Ziobro, as he has proved, works day and night, and is even able to make presentations, so he would like to be able to delegate his powers to the secretaries or undersecretaries of the state, practically all the competences that will be attached to him, in other words, his deputies will be able to... [[Get to the point!]] ...sign acts of appointment, appeal of the Presidents of the courts, exercise many other competences not only arising from the Law on the System of General Courts. In the explanatory memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, we read that the Minister of Justice, who is at the same time the Attorney General, has so many responsibilities that he is unable to deal with them himself and has to delegate them in part. Minister Ziobro, don't work so much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: What a rude thing to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u468	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 163 voted against - 221, 23 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose not to delete the third sentence in Article. 11 § 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Ziobra and I would ask that the Minister take it very seriously because you have been telling us here for half an hour how important it is to democratize the procedure of appointing judges, appointing judges. In this law, in this amendment, you remove the obligation of any consultation, and in fact you hand over to yourself and appointed by the President of the Court, the one-man appointed by your President of the Court, the appointment of the heads of the departments of the courts. Where's the democratisation? Minister, my question is very serious, because two days ago in the paper, we read about a promotion from corporal to colonel in the ABW. Today we know that Mr. Jak, who is not a lawyer by education, is at the head of an authority that has jurisdiction of the court. I don't know what the judges are gonna be like. What guarantees do we have that you'll call any educated lawyers at all? If there is to be a democratic procedure, it should be transparent, it should be... we should know the criteria. You're calling your colleagues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And not necessarily lawyers. Please, my doubts...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u470	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u471	...to disperse from this pulpit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u472	We'll proceed with the vote. [[But maybe you can answer the question, Mr. Marshal, maybe you can give him a chance...]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 228, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 22a applicants propose amendments concerning, inter alia, transfer of the judge to another department. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u473	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The Constitution of 3 May provided for the separation of the judicial authority from the legislative authority, the executive authority. It was this enlightenment which arrived at the end of the 18th century in Poland, introduced into the Polish system. You're making a civilization change. This is a historical change. You will go, Mr President, to history, to textbooks of the history of the Polish system really as an engineer of bad changes. But I have a question for Minister Ziobra. What country... Because you refer to Western civilization, you give examples of the Netherlands. In what country do the judges choose and report politicians? Which one? In the Netherlands, politicians, party... [[In Germany.]] A man? No. Members in Germany? No. [[Who?]] Spanish parliamentarians in the Cortez? No... [[Who in Germany?]] ...there's committees, there's assemblies, there's... [[Who's on the committees in Germany?]] ...Judge's government. The judges, the power separate from politics. The only country I've found, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in which the folk assembly reports, is North Korea.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u474	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u475	It's authentic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u476	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 164 voted against - 227, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose that Article. Let's leave it in its current wording. Amendment 41 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 6. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club. [[Down with the commune.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The district, appeal and district courts are headed by over 300 presidents. To date, the Presidents have been appointed by the Minister of Justice for a term of office after consulting the relevant General Assembly of Judges. Now the Minister wishes to grant himself the right to terminate all these terms of office, to exchange all these presidents and to appoint them without any opinion, nor the assembly of judges, nor the National Judicial Council, as if he had appointed his officials. Minister, reporter, isn't this the introduction of purgatory and dictatorship over all functions in the judiciary by executives? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u478	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 5 and 41 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 166, against 226, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 23, 24 and 25 § 1 applicants propose amendments concerning, inter alia, the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts of Appeal, District and District. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u479	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The bill eliminates the participation of the judicial community in the appointment of the President of the Court. From now on, the President of the Court is to be the nominee of the Minister of Justice, Minister of Ziobra, to be brought in a briefcase to the judges and it will be said: this will be your President of the Court from now on. This is outrageous. We therefore propose an amendment which does not completely eliminate the Minister's participation, but strongly restricts it and introduces a mechanism for the participation of the judge in the selection of these judges. We're gonna have a case where, for example, we're gonna have a case. In the Seym the Prime Minister of the Government would come every day and say: Today, the marshal will be someone else, today Mr.Kuchciński will not run the bill, but e.g. Minister Tobiszowski will conduct this bill without the participation of Members. Would we really want the Sejm to function like this? [[Applause]] That is why we definitely do not want the Presidents of courts of different kinds to function in this way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u480	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u481	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! My question is addressed to the rapporteur, but also to the members of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Are you aware that this proposal for the Modern Amendment was going exactly in the direction that was in 1980 by the first At that time, she requested that the judiciary be given the right to co-decision on the cast of the vacant judge's office and on the co-decision on the opinion and promotion of the judges, as well as on the election of the governors of the courts. Even the PZPR then considered the possibility of a non-binding opinion of the college of judges of a given court, which you do not provide in this law and which you judge today. It's a step further, [[♪ The bell ♪]] than it was in the Polish People's Republic in 1980. It's worth reading books. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u482	Thank you. Here, the rapporteur of the committee, Andrzej Matusiewicz, will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A country from the opposition often refers to legal standards in European countries. And not elsewhere, like Germany, the Czech Republic or Latvia, the Minister of Justice appoints the Presidents of the courts without any opinion of the collegial bodies, [[Applause]] representatives of the judiciary. This isn't new. This is not an attempt on the independence of the courts, this is not an attempt on the independence of the judges... [[The return of the Polish People's ……]] ...because the presidents have purely organisational and administrative functions. They're supposed to be organizing court work, individual departments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u484	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 228, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 27. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendments 8, 9, 31 and 35. The question is raised by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I have a question for the rapporteur. The Minister of Justice shall have the power to dismiss the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Tribunal during his term of office. At the same time, the draft law very vaguely, even slightly defines the reasons for the appeal. These are very opaque causes that can lead to perversions. The agreement of the National Judicial Council will be illusory to its politicisation, which happened just now. This is a very harmful and dangerous provision that can be abused. I appeal to the High House to accept the Civic Platform amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u486	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u487	Mr. Marshal! My question - now precisely - to the rapporteur, who was just a moment ago to justify the competence given to the Minister of Justice for the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts as Presidents of the Courts in his view are to perform the functions of organisation and administration. This is my question to the rapporteur: Do you, Mr President, remember that you have recently adopted a law in which exactly the same competences Have you given a minister to the administrative directors of the courts? And they are also appointed, and these are the persons who are responsible for the administrative and organisational functioning of the courts. Presidents of courts in Poland. Perhaps it is different in Estonia and Latvia. But once again, I would like to invoke the request of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union of the NSZZ.Solidarity from the reform of the judiciary in the Polish People's Republic in 1980, so that the election of the Presidents of the courts of all levels should be entrusted and given to the judges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And today you're turning the law 180 degrees. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u488	Thank you, sir. The rapporteur shall reply. Here you are, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer Mr Protasiewicz's question. Well, the Member does not distinguish between the functions of the Director of the Court and the functions of President. The director of the court has competence in administrative and economic matters, and he is to ensure that, for example, the rooms are properly prepared for trial, so that there are computers, so that the whole office machine is prepared in the secretariats. On the other hand, the Presidents of the courts are to organise this work concerning case law in such a way as to enable the various departments to function. Ladies and gentlemen, the practice is that the Presidents of the courts rule far less than the other judges. It is also a matter of using them for legal matters. And here these changes are absolutely justified. They will improve court proceedings, speed up, reduce the length of proceedings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u490	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 7th amendment, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 166, against 227, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose amendments to the appeal of the President and the Vice-President of the Court. Amendments 9, 31 and 35. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will render amendments 10, 30 and 42. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u491	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The provisions relating to the amendment constitute the competence of the Minister of Justice to dismiss the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Court, to influence the appointment of judges of visitors, i.e. judges assessing the work of others, and to appoint and dismiss the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of Military Courts in agreement with the Ministry of National Defence. I have a question for the rapporteur: What is the need for the Minister of Justice to be more competent when it comes to influencing what judges are to assess the work of other judges? Why is it necessary to have such broad powers to dismiss the presidents and vice-presidents of the courts, including the military? In such a situation, do the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts need such broad powers and authority over the courts of the Minister of Justice in general? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u492	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill introduces a very strange condition enabling the Minister of Justice to dismiss the President of the Court. This is an indication of the particularly low efficiency of administrative supervision activities or the organisation of work in court or in lower courts. This is so general that the Minister of Justice can in principle revoke any President at any time. You have to ask why it's done. I'm gonna answer that question because no one's gonna bother. It is done so that the Presidents of the courts feel that nothing protects them from the wrath of Minister Ziobro that they should obey, or else they will lose their function. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u494	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 8, 9, 31 and 35, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 162 voted against - 221, with 26. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. 37d § 2 The applicants propose to delete the second sentence. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 380, against - 5, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 37e applicants propose not to add § 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club. [[Mr. Marshal, may I make a formal request?]] There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the possibility to simply dismiss the presidents who do not agree with the party line, the draft law also imposes financial penalties on the presidents of between 15 and 50%. I have such a question for the Minister: Why introduce these solutions at all? Is this some form of a scarecrow? If anyone objects to Minister Ziobro, then - armpit! - is he going to get punished? Explain that to me. On the other hand, Minister Ziobro, you are standing here on this speaker and this pride and arrogance of power until they simply beat you. I would like to point out to you that Kaligula also wanted to make a senator out of a horse. Remember, every authoritarian dream ends in defeat. That bubble of pride you've got, it's just gonna break at some point. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u496	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 161 voted against - 219, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, the applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 37g. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 13 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 161 voted against - 227, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. It's after 1:00. I'll announce a recess and call the Senior Convention. In the 13th amendment to the article. 37g § Point 1 and § 3 The applicants propose amendments to external administrative supervision by the Minister of Justice. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that you should, however, address all these questions, because these questions that Members are asking are so precise and serious that even Marshal Kuchciński has nothing to stick to and does not interrupt these questions. This is the best proof that these are questions about the subject and they are extremely serious. [[You guys always ask ridiculous questions.]] In this amendment, you want to introduce a provision that allows you to actually write a report for judges, because you will decide what is in the report that judges are preparing. You, Mr. Peterovich, have spent a lot of time talking about the division of power. I don't know who you are in this division of power. Are you the executive officer, being the minister, the Attorney General, or are you the judicial authority, being the prosecutor, the man who influences all judges? After all, you are also part of the legislative authority. I call on what you say to become a fact. These amendments, on the other hand, go the other way. These amendments give you full authority until President Kaczyński changes you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u498	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u499	I'm asking you to answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u500	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u501	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Amendment 13, which we have reported as Modern, is that you foresee in the bill that the Minister of Justice evaluates annual information about the activities of the courts. This is another example of an attempt to significantly subjugate the judiciary. We are approaching a psychic situation in which the Minister, as the Attorney General, will accuse the Minister as responsible for the courts, and now he has recently subjected himself to prison, so as the Chief Key, he will execute these sentences. [[Applause]] [[And in the end, he'll be sitting.]] Do you have any idea what authority you are putting into the hands of one man? Think about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u502	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 161 voted against - 224, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. I'm ordering a five-minute break and calling the Senior Convention in the dark living room. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 19 hrs. 17 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 30 of the agenda. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 37. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 15. The question is asked by Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we ask for the deletion of a provision which states that the Minister of Justice may refer to the President or Vice-President of the Court of Appeal in writing if he finds shortcomings in the jurisdiction, internal administrative supervision or other administrative activities and requests that their effects be removed. This attention may involve the imposition of a financial penalty. My questions. Is it true that leaving this record will make the courts dependent on the Minister of Justice and eliminate the constitutional division of power? Is this going to be another element of breaking down democracy in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u504	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] 394 Members voted. 150 votes against 218 and 26 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 37ga do not add § 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are introducing rules like the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, because you are giving Minister Ziobra real tools to influence the work of judges. So, if you want to see the fate of the Polish courts, just look at what the prosecutor's office, acting under the authority of Minister Ziobra, has been doing in the last year. This is a picture. Mr Bogdan Święczkowski, head of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, who gets into a business car after a political meeting at the PiS headquarters on the street. Nowogrodzka. That's how your independent prosecution works, and that's how independent courts will function. [[Game in the O.R.]] Jarosław Kaczyński has been granted access to dozens of cases in the prosecutor's office for the past year. You're cutting down cases that concern your party colleagues, which is the best example of the prosecution's silence in the case of Antoni Macierewicz, who, as we know, ordered illegally [[♪ The bell ♪]] VIP planes for the amount of PLN 2 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u506	Mr President, I draw your attention. You are asking a question about Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u507	This is what the Polish judiciary will look like. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u508	I draw your attention to asking questions about Amendment 15. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 158 against 227, with 27 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 37h applicants propose, inter alia, not to add § 11 and 12. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 156 votes against 226 and 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 41 do not add § 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to this law, the Rules of Procedure of the General Courts are the most important act governing the work of courts throughout the country. It is common to all courts and regulates hundreds of procedures relevant to everyday functioning. It also has a huge impact on what judges and on what rules individual cases settle. I do not know whether you are aware that Mr Piotrowicz proposes that Minister Ziobro should be able to spend for a period of 2 years for any area so called. pilot rules in which new solutions can be tested. But what are these new solutions to be tested on? What about the actions of prosecutors who harass the owners of websites criticizing the government? Or maybe the failure of the prosecutor's office to investigate the causes of the Auschwitz accident involving young Sebastian and the Prime Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or maybe in these practices... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u510	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u511	...that all of Poland saw... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Beelzebub, it's over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u512	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 161 Members voted against 229, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 53c add § 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 164 voted against - 222, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 64 § 1 and 1a propose to amend the criteria for candidates for the position of Judge of the Court of Appeal. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u513	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of the draft law is so-called. A quick promotional path? Is it to tempt regional court judges to move quickly if they decide according to the party's line? It cannot be that the judges of the regional courts without work, the experience in the district courts immediately have the opportunity to be promoted to the appeals courts. It is very important that they come into contact with matters of greater caliber, so that they learn the principle of the operation of larger courts. The amendment proposed by you is not intended to improve the work of the judiciary, but merely to subdue the judiciary to the political authorities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u514	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are introducing the possibility of fast promotion paths to the highest level of judges, i.e. appeals judges. You applied a similar solution to the D.A.'s law, and what did it end with? I'm going to give you some examples that are the first on the shore. Mr Paweł Wilkoszewski, former assistant to Mr Zbigniew Ziobra from the District Attorney's Office, promoted to the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw and became the head of this unit, and after a year he was appointed to the Regional Attorney's Office and then posted to the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Jarosław Duś, a good old friend of Minister Ziobra's, connected to the Dr. Mirosława G., a leak in CBA's shares at the Ministry of Agriculture. Unfortunately, he had so much to do that because of his medical condition he had been retired for several years, but after the last election he suddenly recovered and received the title of Prosecutor of the Regional Public Prosecutor's Office in Poznań. He felt good enough to be promoted to the National Public Prosecutor's Office after 7 months and was given a post [[♪ The bell ♪]] the director of the office. How about Mrs. Barbara Piotrowicz...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u516	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u517	...your daughter... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: End, Beelzebub.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u518	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[We'll see again that we're all in favour.]] 416 Members voted. 161 voted against - 229, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment, applicants propose to leave the article. 69 in the current version. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will make amendments 21, 22 and 40 futile. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u519	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I have a question for the rapporteur. The bill gives the Minister of Justice a great deal of competence. The Minister's new mandate will be to decide whether the judge will be able to continue his duties after the retirement age. The Minister must give his consent. The will and desire of a judge is not enough. What's with the minister's powers? They're impossible, unless it's about full personnel control at the Ministry level. It's not gonna make the courts work better, the other way around, it's gonna make it worse. Does the High House know that last year the control rate of cases, i.e. the ratio of cases that have affected the cases considered, significantly deteriorated compared to 2015? If the High Sejm does not accept this amendment, these indicators will be even worse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u520	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 164 voted against - 231, with 26. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 69 do not add § 1b and leave § 3 in the current version. Amendment 40 is linked to this amendment and we will vote on it together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 22. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u521	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the question of why in this project the Minister of Justice has been given the power to decide whether a judge who has reached the age of retirement and is healthy can continue to rule. After all, in this way the Minister of Justice, contrary to the Constitution, has the power to determine who can occupy the office of a judge and who can't. Constitution in Article. 180 provides that the judges are indispensable and that the transfer of the judge to rest may be the result of preventing him from exercising his or her office of sickness or loss of strength. Since it appears from the medical certificate presented by the judge that the judge is healthy and can continue to occupy his office, the Minister of Justice has no right to decide whether such a judge should retire. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u522	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the moment, the judge who reaches retirement age decides whether or not he wants to continue working. All he has to do is provide a certificate that he can continue to serve as a judge, and then he can work up to the age of 70. You are now introducing such a provision that the Minister of Justice, even though the judge is healthy, even though he wants to continue his work, can send him away at rest. In this way, he has a powerful instrument working on all those judges who are approaching retirement age to behave in accordance with the Minister's expectations. [[Young people have nothing to do.]] [[Voice from the room: Give work to young people.]] And if a judge thinks it's not the way the minister likes it, then he won't be able to extend his job as a judge. What does that have to do with protecting the independence of judges, I ask. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u524	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 21st and 40th would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 164 voted against - 229, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 69 § 1b applicants propose an amendment concerning the further occupation of a judge by a person who is 67 years of age. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 234 voted against - 162, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, applicants propose, inter alia, not to add an article. 71a-71f. Amendments 33, 37, 44 and 45 join with it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will make amendments 24th, 25th, 34th and 43rd irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 23rd, 33rd, 37th, 44th and 45th, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 232 voted against - 141, with 49 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The 24th amendment is without object. 25. It's unobtrusive. In the 26th amendment, applicants propose to leave the article. 77 and 78 in the current version. Amendment 46 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed provisions give the opportunity, attention, to delegate judges to work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President's Office. There, according to Members of the Law and Justice, judges are most needed today. Not in courts where citizens wait months for trial, but in these two offices. [[More precisely, for years.]] Minister, there's so much you're talking about the length of court proceedings. So let's take a look at what you've done so far. How many times does the Ministry block free-time judges without announcing competitions? Over 600. How many judges work at the Ministry of Justice? Okay. 150. This is a total of 750 judges. Assuming that in Poland one judge settles about 200 cases a year, each year you block 150 thousand. cases. You hurt 150,000 every year. Polish citizens, fulfilling their political fantasies. [[Applause]] And how many reforms have you implemented to improve judicial proceedings? Zero. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, does that number ring a bell? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u526	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 26th and 46th would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 162 voted against - 232, with 26. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 27th amendment to Article. 82a § 5 applicants shall propose an amendment to the duties of a judge in the event of his/her taking part in vocational training. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u527	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today the Sejm adopts two laws, a set of two laws which close all the changes proposed by the Law and Justice which destroy independent judiciary in Poland. You can see clearly on which constitution the creator of these changes, Jarosław Kaczyński, was raised - that is the Stalinist Constitution of 1952.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u528	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the point and to the point. It's about Amendment 27.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u529	In a second, yes, I'll ask you a question, it's about training judges. However, even from the Law and Justice Club, it is very difficult to select a Member who would agree to be the face of such disgusting laws. The only one who took this step is Mr Piotrowicz. Therefore, Mr Kaczyński, the question: What does Mr Kaczyński have on you that you have agreed to be the face of such disgusting laws? [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u530	I would like to point out to you that your speech must be a form of interference...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u531	Isn't that the same thing that General Jaruzelski testified for in 1982? [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u532	I would like to point out to you that your speech must be a form of interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Excuse me, Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u533	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! $3,000. functions to be filled. Generally, we know your criteria: Macierewicz's armed men, Morawiecki's men - the financial sector, the strategic sector - another group, energy companies - another. Minister Ziobro, PZU - you know. Agricultural companies, studs - another group. On what basis, according to what criteria do you want to separate these positions, function positions? Are you going to annex the coalition agreement? Is it going to be $2.5,000? the positions of presidents, say, other function posts will be for representatives of PiS, 400 for Solidarna Polska, 100 for Poland Together? And such a fear a little as you can handle it all. Because you're one person, one body, and you and the legislative body, and the executive body, and the judicial body. We fear for this uniformity of power, because you really restore it on the basis of the Stalinist Constitution. How can you manage all this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Trust.]] 'Cause it's really gonna take an unparalleled force to get this whole... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u534	Mr President, I remind you that we are at the 27th amendment. You weren't referring to her. [[And he convinced me, for example.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 163 votes against - 229, 30 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment, applicants propose to leave the article. 87 in the current version. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 137 voted against - 228, with 51. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 175f and 175g. Amendments 32 and 36. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u535	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask if it's fair that you expropriate IT companies from their property rights to computer programs that have been implemented in the systems of the Ministry of Justice, bailiffs or prosecutors. Since the Ministry, when announcing the tender, did not provide for such opportunities, i.e. the transfer of property rights, today it is not possible to expropriate these companies, because it is neither right nor fair. Ladies and gentlemen, contracts must be kept. If the State has wrongly signed agreements, if the Ministry of Justice has wrongly signed agreements, it has not provided for such operations in such agreements, today it is not possible to use these rights by law, but to sit down with these entrepreneurs and come to an agreement with them normally, not by law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u536	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 29, 32 and 36, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 227, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 30th amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose not to amend the Military Courts Law. Amendment 42 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u537	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: We clearly find that the law under review is in breach of the independence of military courts, as it gives the Minister of Justice, in agreement with the Minister for National Defence, the power to appoint and dismiss the presidents and vice-presidents of military courts. And it's done arbitraryly, without consulting the judges. The current Presidents of the Military District Courts and Military Garrison Courts and their alternates will also be dismissed by the Minister of Justice in agreement with the Minister for National Defence for a period of not more than 6 months from the date of entry into force of this Act without giving reasons. I have a question for the rapporteur. Why, knowingly, by breaking the article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 173 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, you give further powers and powers to the Minister of Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] In agreement with the Minister of National Defence...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u538	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u539	...in violation of the independence of military courts? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u540	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 30 and 42 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 229, with 26. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The 34th amendment is without object. In the 38th amendment to Article. 11 applicants propose not to add Article. 64a to the Law Law introducing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 160, against 227, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 39th amendment to Article. 13 applicants propose not to amend the Act of 16 November 2016 amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 39th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Even faster.]] 416 Members voted. 161 voted against - 229, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 43 is pointless. In the 47th amendment to the article. 28 applicants propose that the entire law enter into force six months after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u541	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These six months of vacathio legis are needed by the President, so that the President may wonder if he really wants to get Poland out of the European Union. 'Cause right now, we're dealing with the end of three divisions of power... [[Sit down, don't talk.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] ...and this is a vote, ladies and gentlemen, whether Poland will be democratic, whether Poland will be a country of the rule of law and whether it will continue to be so, that in 2017 there will be publications for Polish Members and translated from English - the rule of law - a guide for politicians. This is a guide for you, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u542	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Mr Szczerba puts the book on the jury held by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice]] [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Clean up, clean up.]] Calm down, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The voice from the hall: What a shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u543	Mr. Marshal, I don't know if...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u544	Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u545	I can do it now, right? Thank you, Marshal. Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not surprised at the uproar here, because the problem is really serious. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns the amendment of the Law on the system of common courts, the fundamental law for the general court, the law on the system. The proposal introduces a number of amendments to the law. And what vacathio legis? 14 days. After all, this is a mockery of the principles of correct legislation, a mockery of the legitimacy of the legislator, a mockery of the principle of shaping citizens' confidence in the state and the laws they make. Such a law providing for such broad amendments should enter into force at least 6 months after its publication. During this period, possible errors can be detected and corrected, during which period the addressees of this law will comply with the new standards. I mean, it's been so many times in this term. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It turned out that as a result of the haste of your laws...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u546	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u547	...they were surrounded by many mistakes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u548	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u549	Didn't that teach you anything? [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u550	Thank you very much. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 157 voted against - 229, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, the Members raise questions. Member Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[Voice from the room: Next.]] Mr Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, has the floor. Are you an MP? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate is not about whether someone likes judges more or less, nor is it a debate on judicial reform. This is a debate. on a certain philosophy, on the most important principles of justice, the right to an honest and independent assessment. Imagine the situation that Poland's representation plays some big game, millions of Poles in front of TVs, on the streets crowds chant the names of our best players, and before the first whistle it turns out that the judge of these competitions will be the representative of our rival. You can imagine the scale of outrage, you'll call it cheating, you'll call it stupidity, and you're right, because it's just unfair. But such impudent rules are now being introduced into the Polish judiciary and with these principles. We completely disagree. As a Civic Platform, we believe that everyone, regardless of political views, religion or public activity... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u552	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u553	...has always a sacred right to an objective and independent assessment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u554	Thank you very much, sir. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, has the floor. I'm just asking you to ask questions. Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last time we examined this bill, I read the words of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński from 1989, which he said during the round table. [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] I will quote these words again because not all of you have heard them: The question of the appointment of the Presidents of the courts without the participation of the judiciary is one of the gates allowing the power to make individual judges dependent on the judgment. It's worth the rush to close all those gates. Therefore, I have a question for the applicant's representative: What arguments have they decided to change their mind? Because this project is a denial of the words quoted. What arguments have led to the withdrawal from ideas which were the basis of the new Poland, Poland based on democratic rules of the rule of law? And one more thing, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The judge's average age is 39. Where's the commune?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u556	Thank you, Member. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u557	And one more thing: we want reform, but far from politics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u558	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u559	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, Kukiz15 included a radical change in the justice system. We wanted to give it to the citizens, we wanted to introduce control of citizens, we wanted to introduce a choice of judges. None of these points were included in this reform. It's just that the PiS judges took over the Platform and the Left judges. We have therefore decided at the club that we will not participate in either the vote on the system of common courts or the vote on the National Judicial Council. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u560	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This is a double-dangerous bill. The first danger gives rise to consequences for Poles and Poles, because it results in a disorder of order, it destroys confidence in courts, destroys the independence of these courts, which can be easily destroyed, and it will be very difficult to rebuild them in the future. Second danger is danger, Mr. President, for you. It is a danger, either by putting all the power in the justice system into the hands of one man, and it is a man with unlimited political aspirations. This is not a good situation, Mr. President, there is still time to draw conclusions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[How's Janek Bure?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u562	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u563	Mr. Marshal! My question to the rapporteur relates to the fact that this draft law has many bad or at least questionable provisions. The crucial thing from our point of view is that the dangerous solution is putting under direct control, under the direct supervision of the Minister of Justice of the Presidents of the courts of all levels in Poland. In addition to administrative directors who have already been directly subordinate to the Minister, today the Minister of Justice receives direct supervision of the second important governing body of the courts, such as the Presidents. I would like to remind you once again that such a procedure was in the Polish People's Republic, and the great movement of Solidarity, this great rush in 1980, called for a change of this procedure and a decision to be made to the judges' assemblies of local governments. Why are you going back to PRL encore and basically PRL pis? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Jeez...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u564	Thank you very much. At the moment, Mr Budek made a formal request. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u565	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[I want you to decipher a name.]] With a formal request for a recess, you will still have time for your final reflection. [[Take it, Boris...]] I know it's a pretty hard word. Reflection is the time to reflect on what you are proposing. [[Voice from the room: We're wasting time.]] You are talking about high standards in this House, about the fact that you want to change the Polish justice system. Well, there are no rules in the bill that you are about to adopt, which would make the judiciary work better, more effectively, that there will be fewer cases in the courts. You have adopted the standards that you have actually implemented since the beginning of these governments. After all, it was you who adopted the draft of Minister Ziobra who accepted the changes to K.P.K., which allowed your party colleague first to be removed from the court and then, through political prosecutors, to drop the criminal proceedings only to make him head of one of the largest energy companies. You're introducing laws that allow your party guys to protect you through the D.A.'s office and now protect you in court. Do you have the audacity to say that you are making changes for the citizens? The only change you're making is a change to protect yourself, your officers from justice. You can be sure that if not today, not tomorrow, the day after tomorrow... [[Don't scare me!]] ...imprisonable judges and independent courts will punish any offense you've committed, any crime you've committed. Your empty clichés will be for nothing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u566	Mr Meysztowicz with a vote against, yes? [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u567	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'm against that conclusion because this break isn't gonna work. Unfortunately, it is not possible to demand reflection from Law and Justice, because in Law and Justice it is probably too late to reflect. [[Applause]] You are finishing the justice system in Poland. [[Sit down!]] [[Are you done yet?]] You're finishing up, you're stubbing the KRS, you're finishing up a functioning justice system. [[Go home!]] [[Buenos Aires!]] So? You're all stubborn now. [[That's a formal conclusion?]] At the moment, for a good cause, everything is already seized by the Law and Justice. We are slowly ending up with a democratic state. [[Get to the point.]] By the way, Mr. Marshal Terlecki, Minister Błaszczak, you gentlemen are just wasting your time in this Seym. There really are job vacancies at BOR. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But wisdom...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u568	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Łukasz Piebiak, asks for the floor. [[There will be no reflection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u569	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I may begin with a question not entirely related to the topic of today's debate, but raised by one of the Members, specifically Mr Myrcha, referring to the prosecutor's office, that we in this law make the judiciary look like the prosecutor's office, that this prosecutor's office is worse under the authority of Minister Ziobra than before. I'm just gonna give you one example. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I am a citizen of Warsaw. [[Warsaw apologizes.]] In this connection, I am also concerned about the issue of reprivatisation. How did the D.A.'s office work on this when it wasn't Minister Ziobro who led it? [[Applause]] How many reprivatization investigations were there? Zero. How much is today? 150. [[Yes, sir!]] Mrs. Brzeska's body was found in the Kabacki Forest. What did the D.A. do? She didn't do anything. There's an investigation going on now. That's the difference. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: SKOK-i test!]] [[Voice from the room: test yourself!]] We're talking about courts. Mr Suchoń spoke of expropriation. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Take a look at how computerization not only looked in the judiciary under the leadership of the predecessors, under the rule of the Platform. We've looked into it with respect to the justice system, and it looks like some things have been overpaid ten times. We do the same thing 10 times cheaper. [[Applause]] [[To Deputy Prime Minister Govina with grudges.]] A state that opposes the possibility of expropriation for fair compensation, in accordance with the Constitution, is in fact demanding that the rule that was in force for previous governments continue to apply, i.e. Our people have to make money. That's not gonna happen. [[Applause]] We will not allow the State Treasury to pay 10 times for what it can pay less for. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Don't call me.]] [[You don't want to hear it.]] We're not gonna let that happen. Mrs Schmidt is talking about the promotions from the district court to the appeal court, which is supposed to be scandalous, right? Didn't you notice that the district court judge could have been promoted to the Supreme Court forever, and that didn't bother anyone? [[Applause]] If he can move any lower now, what's wrong with that? This is elementary order, restoring order. It doesn't bother you that a Supreme Court judge can become a lawyer, a lawyer, a professor, even one who doesn't particularly deal with practice, but it bothers you that a district court judge can become a judge of appeal. What's the consequence? [[Applause]] The presidents of military courts are defended here by probably two present. Read what the press recently wrote about the president of the military court in Warsaw. Did you read it? If you've read it, you've probably also read that Minister Ziobro and Minister Antoni Macierewicz have jointly requested that the President be dismissed. And what happened? The National Judicial Council didn't agree to this. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You can say yes because it was uncomfortable. Only a few years ago, you formulated the same proposal by Minister Ćwiakalski and Minister Klich. So what? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Is this a political play or is this a man's defense against all the facts? Our assessment is about the latter. [[Applause]] Financial penalties for the presidents - the country asking you don't understand. How? It's not a financial penalty, it's just a reduction in the allowance. Everyone deserves a chance. If it does not work with the administration, it should not be thrown out immediately, it should be done financially. It's normal. Under the governments, under the governments of the predecessors, functional allowances for the governors of the courts were in fork form. In fact, you could give a minimum, you could give a maximum without any indication. So? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] And nobody bothered, and now it's starting to bother me. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] You asked for a positive message, what this bill will give, what the citizen will gain. It will give even more judges on the line, because we limit scheduled visits, eliminate periodic assessments and unnecessary judicial bureaucracy. We limit the sphere of bureaucrats judges, we reduce the number of bureaucrats, there will be fewer visitors. People burdened from administrative activities 100% They'll go on trial. We work every day. We limit the number of judicial departments, we limit the administration. [[You're on your own.]] The judge is first and foremost a judge and 100% He's supposed to judge. Those who cannot, because they perform functions, should be as little as possible. And we're doing it. This bill goes in that direction. You don't want to see that. What else will the citizen gain? It will gain a fundamental thing that you have not taken care of - I speak to the opposition - all these years. He'll get a guarantee that no one will finger the judge who will judge him, the most important thing to him. [[Applause]] [[How can you not?]] I understand that Mr Grupiński has not read the project and therefore does not know that there is a system of random assignment of cases, computer, virtually unbreakable by the best hackers. [[Applause]] [[Whoever draws the draw has the power.]] The President of the Court, actually appointed by the Minister of Justice, will have no influence on who gets the case, whether it be a judge with more conservative or less conservative views. Fate will decide. [[Don't make fun of me.]] This bill, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, introduces a European standard of civilization. Germany has this principle of a statutory judge established by the Constitution. You didn't take care of it, you didn't even implement it in the ordinary bill. We're doing it. [[Applause]] What else will citizens gain? They'll gain that a judge who gets promoted or moves to another town will have a duty to finish the case. He's not gonna leave a case torn apart... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...doesn't mean that in criminal proceedings you'll have to start all the gehenna for the party, for witnesses, for everyone involved, for experts from the beginning, because the composition changes and you have to start from the beginning. We say, "Okay, move, move, move, move, but finish the cases you've started because citizens expect it." This bill guarantees it. [[Applause]] There will be international cooperation coordinators in the courts. The most difficult matters in the field of foreign trade, with a foreign element, matters of children, matters of the Hague Convention - will be the judges who specialize in this. They will be able to help, they will indeed be able to make all this work more efficiently in these most difficult matters. I could do a lot of math, but I think everyone should get to know that bill. Basic ground of appeal: the Minister of Justice will be able to appoint and dismiss the President of the Court. This is supposed to be a scandal. It's not a scandal, it's management. In management there is no democracy, the manager is one, [[Applause]] whether it is a manager in the form of a director, or if it is a manager in the form of a President of the Court. If you wanted to, you would probably notice that the exact same system is in force in Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, etc., where administrative positions and all administrative supervision are in the hands of the Minister of Justice. If the Minister of Justice is responsible for administering the courts, he must have instruments to do so. This instrument is a well-functioning President of the Court. If it doesn't work out, it's replaced, and the fact that the President of the court will have no influence on who gets what cases, we're just guaranteeing what I'm talking about. This has not been guaranteed before. Finishing... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] You say, you said in this debate and during the previous law on the National Judicial Council, that we have great, independent, constitutional judges. If that is the case - and I would not dare to accuse Mr Budka of missing the truth, because he said so - we will elect presidents from among them, from among them will be elected members of the National Judicial Council. If everyone is a crystal, nothing will happen if the Minister of Justice calls them into function. [[Applause]] Nothing's gonna happen. And even if there were judges who didn't meet these high criteria, and they were appointed presidents... [[Mrs. Przylebska.]] ...then how could they affect the rest of the crystal-clear judges, independent and independent? They couldn't, so some consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u570	Thank you. I would like to inform you that a request has been made for an adjournment. I will now put this proposal to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 392 Members voted. The vote was 136, against 248, with 8 abstentions. The motion was rejected. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, how about a corrigendum? Name and surname.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1591, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 232 Members voted. The vote was 229, against - 3, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. [[Long-term applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice stand up and chant: Democracy! Democracy! Democracy!]] We are returning to the review of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and certain other laws. [[Formal conclusion.]] We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1706-A. I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to present this report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u571	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It'll be easier. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] additional report by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government draft law amending the Law on Substances Depleting the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and certain other laws, print No 1647. The Sejm at its 45th meeting on 12 July 2017 pursuant to Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1706 to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 12 July 2017, requests the High Sejm to correct the proposal to reject the law and does not recommend the adoption of 15 amendments tabled at second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u572	Thank you. As we have heard, in an additional report, the committee makes a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Of course, the adoption of this proposal will render the remaining proposals irrelevant. I would remind you that the committee requests that this request be rejected. The question is raised by Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u573	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Excessively developed project, beyond the requirements of implementation of Union law, errors in technical definitions, penalties in isolation from the actual gravity of the infringement, unequal treatment of economic operators, including individuals... of single-member economic activities. It is weird that the amendments you tabled in your previous term of office were not reflected in this project. It is therefore difficult for us to accept this project in such a form, in such an extensive form. The modern will certainly not support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u574	However, I would ask the Member to ask a question. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u575	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This law, on the one hand, overregulates this area of the economy and imposes excessive administrative and financial burdens. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, may I have your silence, please? Because I really can't hear myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u576	Ladies and gentlemen, please stop talking.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u577	As I said, this law will, on the one hand, overregulate this area of the economy, but on the other hand, it also creates some gaps. I believe it's because of the haste, not because of other reasons. I'm asking the applicants questions. These are just some questions. Why are you forcing Polish companies with f-gas certificates to re-take them? Do you realize that this regulation is underdeveloped in key elements, such as: in the field of f-gases trading? Why would you want to strengthen the grey zone in the area of refrigeration services and smuggle agents into them? These questions should be asked to you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] help to make a decision on the fate of this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u578	Thank you, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u579	Mr. Marshal! You are not allowed to correct or file formal applications against the rules of procedure, so I am acting at this point. Minister, you dare to teach us morality? You're the judge... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We're at a different point.]] ...convicted...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u580	Mr... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr President, please leave the speaker, because we are at a different point. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Come on!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] Mr... Mr President, questions are being asked...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u581	The Attorney General's office with Ziobra's bosses isn't working well.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u582	...to the motion to reject the bill concerning...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u583	Mr. Marshal, if you...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u584	Let me remind you that this is a revision of the Act on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u585	Bogdan Święczkowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u586	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u587	Bogdan Święczkowski on Nowogrodzka...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u588	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u589	... Ziobro protecting prosecutors associated with Amber Gold...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u590	Thank you very much, sir, but you are not talking about it. You're not talking about anything. Please leave the platform. Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm at the moment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u591	Mr. Marshal, you don't follow the rules of the Sejm, so I'm taking the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u592	Mr President, please leave the speaker. Thank you very much, sir. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. And please leave the platform. Please leave the podium. Please leave the podium. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[This is an outrage.]] Mr Józef has the floor... That's everybody. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 82 voted against - 319, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 14 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 10. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Questions are raised by Members. Member Paweł Szramka, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u593	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why do we tolerate incomprehensible and contradictory internal rules that form the basis of the law? I don't know. I don't know. 10 such terms as: acquisition of f-gases for your own use? What does that even mean, for your own sake? Can anyone explain why it is not used to say that the acquisition by individuals is only allowed for business purposes? Why is it so residual to document the trading of f-gases when so much effort has been made to introduce certification? And what is the purpose of burdening the burdensome reporting of service companies, while everyone can buy f-gases, claiming that they purchase them for commercial purposes? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u594	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[As usual, it won't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u595	I'm smiling at you especially. Mr. Marshal! Speaking of this law and about f-gases - please note: about f-gases - I would like to draw attention to the fact that every Member has the right to rectify. If his name is mentioned, each Member has the right, and there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which gives the Marshal of the Sejm the right in the course when he makes the correction...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u596	Mr. President, you are deviated from...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u597	...interruption, interference... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u598	...from the subject...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u599	...in the content of the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u600	...and you're out of line with the first amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u601	Mr Marshal, every Member has the right to do so. And I'm going to say what I'm going to say about f-gases, you have to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u602	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are disturbing the session of the Sejm at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u603	If you're talking about fair courts, find a judge without judgment...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u604	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u605	Even a judge without a judgment that can justify it, you can't find it. [[Game in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u606	...on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. [[I'm working for free this month anyway.]] Mr President, once again, I would like to point out to you that I take your shouts as a disruption to the Sejm's deliberations. [[I'm talking to you. You're shouting.]] On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 I call you to order and say that you are preventing the proceedings of the Sejm from taking place at the moment. [[Touchdown, applause]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 60 against - 342, with 13 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 13a applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 43 against - 339, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 13a paragraph. 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. The vote was 30, against 344, with 32 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 14 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 11 and 12. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 34 votes against, 342 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 15. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u607	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Why cannot an IT system be created that works rationally in this country? The currently functioning electronic device card system is built so that it is child's easy to use someone else's certificate number officially available on the Internet on the website of the Technical Supervision Authority to enter the device card, which is reserved for F-gas certified. It is right that the owner of the installation is the owner of the device card, for example. the market network, but the entry is assigned to the service provider, the service company as a subcontractor of the market. Such a sub-contractor is not able to enforce his entry in the device card, as the current IT system imposes it. Then no one is interested in controlling in such a mess who made the entry and what content. So why would an electronic system be introduced if the Ministry of the Environment is currently calling for a return to paper protocols? Does the entire IT system become a fiction under these conditions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u608	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 55 against - 339, with 16 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 applicants propose the new wording of point 3. It's connected to the 7th Amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 6 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 34 votes against - 345 and 35 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. 26 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 10. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The vote was 32 against - 342, with 37 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose to add a new amendment to Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 11th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 32 against 349, with 35 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose the new wording of point 6. Amendment 15 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Szramka, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why is it so restrictive to provide for the suspension of the certificate to companies when the other provisions of the F-gas Act are nonchalantly formulated? Why should one offense, even minor, of a service company where there is no danger of life or health, lead to the fact that an official may interfere with the operation of the company? Suspension - yes, but when abuse is important. Then it makes sense. Will you, in a similar way, suspend the activities of other companies for even minor offenses? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u610	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 11 and 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 36 against 344 and 34 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose to add a new amendment to the Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 amended act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The vote was 28 against - 343, with 39 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 47 applicants propose the new wording of point 14. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 31 against - 346 and 37 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 48 applicants propose the new wording of points 32 and 33 and the addition of new points. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 32 votes against - 343, 40 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, Mr Brynkas, the Kukiz club15, asks the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My name, Marshal, is Brynus. It doesn't surprise me that you've rejected the amendments. At the same time, I am convinced that most of these amendments will come back here after consideration by the Senate on condition that you think logically and for the sake of Poles. Finally, I have a question for the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Development. First question. Did any of you consult with the refrigeration industry on this bill? What were the suggestions on this side? In response, it would be good for the Minister to point out the environments that have consulted this law. I have a second question for the Ministry of Development. Why do you pass such a legal bullshit against the interests of Polish companies, without being forced to do so by EU regulations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But it's all in the documents, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u612	Thank you and I apologise to the Member for the slip. Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u613	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! As regards clarification, this law is an amendment to the 2015 Act. The European Regulation regulates these substances that deplete the ozone layer and other fluorinated greenhouse gases. This regulation is in force. The law that we are updating today simply clarifies some technical things about its functioning, so that these greenhouse gases are surrounded and controlled so that they do not harm the ozone layer of air. At the same time, using these 20 seconds, I would like to point out, Mr Marshal, that, however, as regards the previous debate, the Deputy Minister of Justice referred to the specific statement made by Arkadiusz Myrcha and he had the right to reply and to comment. [[Applause]] I don't think these things should happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] during such turbulent meetings. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u614	Thank you. But, by the way, mouth. 1 speaks of correcting the misunderstood or misconstrued statement. I did not accept the Minister's statement so that it would be a quote from the Member, even though he called a Member by name. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1706 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 353 voted against - 54, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the Fund for Roads and on amending certain other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. Questions are raised by Members. Member of Sławomir Neumann, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u615	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, is the truth... [[No.]] ...that for the last 8 years Poles and Poles have seen how without reaching in addition to the driver's pockets the Platform has renovated and rebuilt almost 15 thousand. km of local roads? [[Applause]] [[And the companies are dead.]] Is the truth... Without reaching for an additional 5 billion PLN from the driver's pocket. [[It's nothing yet.]] Prime Minister, you've been bragging about a great budget situation here quite recently. There wasn't supposed to be such a good budget in the history of such a situation. And you said, "Just don't steal." So I ask, have you found those who have stolen so much from you in recent months that you need 5 billion zlotys out of the driver's pocket? [[Applause, joy in the hall]] Who stole it? Look, because I understand that something's changed in the last few months. Who stole it? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: On a monthly basis.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u616	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Poor girls, you're not gonna drown out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u617	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, it's enough not to steal, it's enough for everything. That's what you used to say, but this bill is being downloaded from drivers, on average from every driver, 350 zlotys a year. From each transport company, you download an average of 10,000 a year. zł. [[Thieves.]] Every year you collect about PLN 5 billion from the fuel levy, including heavy billions from VAT and PLN 30 billion from... [[Voice from the room: What else?]] [[Voice from the room: Z, z? What would you think of?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You're a mess, sir.]] ...from excise duty. With this excise duty, out of this 30 billion PLN just 6 billion PLN goes on the road. [[And the farmers?]] Prime Minister, it's enough not to steal, it's enough for everything. What are you doing with the money? Ladies and gentlemen, the modern one for the same money will arrange it better. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Madeira.]] We propose: From 1 January 50% The excise will be on the road. We're gonna lower it, we're gonna kill it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] this fee is 25 gr. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u618	Thank you, sir. [[It's populism, pure populism.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u619	We've filed a motion to reject this bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u620	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u621	...because we are fundamentally opposed to raising taxes in a situation where our country can be better organised for the same money. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Leave populism to us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u622	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stanisław Tyszka, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u623	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We are now voting on the motion to reject the petrol+ project submitted by Kukiz15. I stress this because I would like to appeal to Members of the Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the speeches made by the Prime Minister, Minister Błaszczak, President Kaczyński a few years ago, about the need to reduce the taxation of petrol. Lower it, not raise it. This is where you want to raise it, and this is a big test for you. Today we were watching the summit of the Partyocracy when some of you withdrew your signatures under this project - I understand that you may not have read it - and then, after the educational discussion, you were forced to sign these projects again. Mr Rzepecki behaved well and give him a big round of applause. [[Applause]] You know very well that we, Kukiz,15, have always criticized all the increases from the Civil Platform's reign, because these increases push young Poles abroad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please don't follow their footsteps. I remind you of the saying...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u624	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u625	...one of the Members of Law and Justice: Poles, stick to the wallets because a good team is going after them. [[Applause]] [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u626	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u627	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! How do you want to convince Poles that this is a good change for them, if you cannot convince your own Members to do so? Nobody's gonna believe you, that's hypocrisy. You exploit Poles, Polish drivers, Polish entrepreneurs, and in a special way you exploit Polish farmers. For them it will not be 350 zlotys per year, at harvest time it will be 100 zlotys per day. This is exploitation. in broad daylight. [[Applause]] When you go to the harvest festivals in a moment, thank you for the harvest, look deep into the eyes of Polish farmers and tell them, "We have raised you the price of gasoline - 100 PLN per day during the harvest." [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Disgraceful!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is exploitation and hypocrisy. This bill must be rejected at first reading. We're all for building local roads. It is not true what you have said and what you have said in your statements. We want to build local roads, and we have an idea. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's finance them from the profit of the National Bank of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u628	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u629	This PLN 4.5 billion can be allocated peacefully to the construction of local roads. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u630	Thank you very much. The President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, will speak at the moment. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u631	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sustained: Just don't steal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to create a fund from which a very ambitious programme could be implemented... [[You didn't have to take out the sketches.]] ...a program of construction, repair of local roads, local roads, in the smallest local governments, which today are very often unsuccessfully knocking on marshal offices, dominated by the Platform and PSL, and leaving with a receipt. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Who made the amendment?]] Because it's kind of weird that the voivodship boards, after being considered, allocate funds to carry out such tasks. [[In the Podkarpacie, too.]] Where is the governor who supports the current voivodship, there goes the money. [[There are competitions there, Prime Minister. You don't know anything.]] These are the votes of the local government. [[Applause]] These are the voices of people who are asking us today to support them. [[Voice from the room: Why are you taking everything?]] First of all, I propose that you cool down your emotions because you've talked so much nonsense here and so many lies that it's enough for a few sessions of the Sejm. [[Applause]] The proposal that has been presented to you is, among others, The proposal that local governments are making to us right now. [[Voice from the room: Drivers.]] [[Names of self-government.]] This is also an interesting thing, very interesting thing, because whenever we talk about the problems of local governments here - I will stress - local governments, you defend them like lions, while when we talk about local governments, people's problems, you don't want to hear it. [[Applause]] A proposal to create a fund... [[Voice from the hall: Stealing from Poles.]] ...from which funds will be built local government roads, municipal roads, district roads, meets... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[You're lying.]] ...the expectations of people who live very often today in places where there is no chance of implementing an ambitious infrastructure programme. Mr Adamczyk was very clear about this during the debate and showed you what this programme is supposed to be about and how it is to be implemented. [[Stop deluding with illusions, it'll be safer.]] Last year, in October 2016, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers chaired by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki considered the possibility of introducing such a project and programme. At the time, however, there were no appropriate economic conditions. Today we can boast that the economic results of Poland are impressive. [[Applause]] [[Because people got 500+.]] And today is the moment when you might consider introducing this kind of program. This is a matter of discussion and a matter of choice. [[It's the best time to loot.]] It is a matter of discussion whether you want to really change Poland, meet the expectations of Poles or prefer to pretend, as you pretended in the election campaign, when you created a project to build national roads, only for election purposes, because it turned out that 90 billion too much... [[No, you crossed it out.]] ...and then, when it came down to it, that money just wasn't there. [[Applause]] But then, when there was an election campaign, of course, you said you were gonna make it happen. You didn't have any ideas, and you didn't even consider what the Poles wanted. [[S12, Mrs Kopacz. A hundred billion shots fired.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are starting a discussion on this project, on this program and the possibility to realize the way to every house in Poland, not only where civil platform activists live. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Butter for 7 zlotys. Great!]] [[Voice from the room: We're all going to Brest.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u632	Thank you, Prime Minister. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Quiet, please, because you won't know when we're voting. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1712 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. There were 183 votes against, 226 votes against, 2 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. [[Applause]] I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 50 hrs 18 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Centre for Civil Society Development (Print No 1713). I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Adam Lipiński, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u633	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - the Center for Civil Society Development. Maybe I can start by saying a few words about the scale of this phenomenon, the movement that operates in the non-governmental sector. At first there will be positive information and then unfortunately negative information. About 20,000 registered in Poland. The foundation and about 100,000. associations. About 70% are active of them. Each year new ones are created, although unfortunately they also close down other activities every year. There are also many civil society actors who are not registered as formal NGOs, such as parish relief groups, city movements, voluntary firefighters. I mean, it's okay, but this is where the stairs start. First, 45% the organisation has no paid staff. 35% employs paid employees for various types of employment contracts, and only 20% he has at least one employee employed for his employment contract. Meanwhile, about 40% Poles declare commitment to voluntary activities, 20% - in voluntary activities carried out by NGOs. It can be said that this is quite a large scale of the phenomenon, it is a very large potential associated with the ability of NGOs to operate, but unfortunately the civil society institutions in Poland are among the weakest and relatively least numerous in Europe. This is unfortunately a fact from which to draw conclusions. In public life they play an increasingly marginal role, which is a paradox in the country where the Solidarity was founded. So that we have great potential, compared to other countries untapped and various types of action must be taken to ensure that this potential is exploited. From the non-governmental sector research conducted by the Klon/Jawor Association, as well as from the CSO research, it appears that despite the increase in organisational capacity and involvement of the civil sector, this sector lacks stable funding, as a result it is economically weak and partly vulnerable to the phenomenon of oligarchisation. One effect of this is uneven access to public resources, particularly limited for new and small organisations operating away from large cities. While in large cities this situation is not so tragic, in smaller centres, especially those remote from political and administrative centres, this situation is quite tragic. Hence, the need to strengthen the role of the state in building civil society, as we read in the preamble to this document, both territorially and thematically, with special protection surrounding small organisations, promoting social ethos and cultivating local heritage. This will be addressed by the newly created national institute, which will ensure efficient public spending for civil society development, will enable the development of already functioning organisations and will provide support for grassroots initiatives. What are the objectives of the regulation? Here I will also inform you, because it arouses unnecessary emotions, that so far cooperation with organisations has been handled by the FIO - Civil Initiative Fund. The FIO was attached to the family ministry, which was due to some historical events. The idea behind the FIO was that former Minister Hausner created a public benefit department in his department. This is not functional because, inevitably, the funds allocated to non-governmental organisations that were under the responsibility of the family ministry were mainly devoted to various types of social, social projects, while there are many other forms of activity, such as communication, guarding, civic and historical education, volunteering, the development of civil media, etc. The removal of the FIO, the fund of initiatives, from the family ministry and the transfer to the Chancellery of the Prime Minister will be much more functional in this respect. The aim of the proposed legislation is to improve the coordination and state policy of supporting civil society development and to prepare organisational solutions for the implementation of government programmes in this area. It is about creating a national programme to support the development of civil society. The Act transfers the regulatory powers of the Minister for Social Security in the field of public benefit and supervision of public benefit activities to the newly established government body, the President of the Committee on Public Benefits, and the task of the Minister for Social Security in the implementation of horizontal government programmes supporting the development of civil society - to the new public institution: the National Institute of Freedom - the Centre for Civil Society Development. The Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development introduces two new bodies of government administration: the Committee on Public Benefit and the President of the Committee on Public Benefit. The Committee and its Chair shall act on the basis of Article. 147 and 149 Polish Constitution and the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The Act is set up by a Committee on Public Use. The Committee shall be a government authority competent in matters of public benefit and volunteering, including programming, coordination and organisation of cooperation between public administrations and public benefit bodies. The Committee will coordinate and monitor the cooperation of government administrations with the non-governmental sector and other organised forms of civil society, prepare and consult civil society development programmes with civil society organisations and draft legislation on civil society development. The committee shall be composed of the Chairman, who shall be a member of the Council of Ministers, the Vice-President, who shall be the Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, and the Secretaries and Under-Secretaries of State of all ministries. The President of the Committee shall be appointed by the President at the request of the Prime Minister in accordance with Article. 147 constitutions. The functions and tasks of the Chairman of the Committee are regulatory functions, the issuing of regulations to the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, and cooperation with public benefit organisations and supervision of the National Institute of Freedom. In addition, these are the approval of the draft annual financial plan and the national action plan of the Institute, the approval of the activity reports and the management of the Committee's work. The services of the committee are provided by the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. The Act creates the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development. The Institute is to implement a state policy for the development of civil society based on the principles of subsidiarity, partnership and efficiency. The tasks of the National Institute include the implementation of tasks to support the development of civil communities, civil society in Poland, in particular by enhancing the institutional efficiency of NGOs and other organised forms of civil society. Moreover, the main tasks of the national institute include maintaining and disseminating culture and national and local traditions, cultivating Polishness and developing national, civic and cultural awareness, as well as solidarity and social sensitivity. In addition, these provisions also promote respect for and protection of human and civil rights, civic education, environmental protection and animal rights. The national authorities of the institute shall be the Director and the Council. The National Institute shall be headed by the Director appointed and cancelled by the Chairman of the Committee. The Council consists of 11 people, there are representatives of the President, three representatives of the Chairman of the Committee, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, a representative appointed by the Joint Committee of Government and Government, and five representatives of non-governmental organisations appointed by... [[Less and less of these organizations, Minister.]] I just read it. You weren't at first. Less and less. That is why we are doing this bill, Madam Member, so that there will be more. That's what the whole point of this bill is. [[That's the other way. I'm sorry, I'm not interfering.]] Okay, but maybe I'll finish. In any case, there are five representatives of non-governmental organisations, candidates must have at least 20 non-governmental organisations, and their chairman shall be appointed as members of the Board. The Council of Public Activity becomes an advisory body of the Chairman of the Committee, the services of the Board are provided by the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. And one last thing. The draft document, which has been produced for many months, has been widely consulted, and we have taken the assumption that the consultation will last six weeks, which is three weeks more than the practice requires. We organized 23 conferences throughout the country, not only in Warsaw, but also in smaller centres. More than 1 000 took part in these conferences. persons who were representatives of about 850 non-governmental organisations. I think that this consultation has given us a lot, a lot of comments have been made on this document, almost 200. Some of these comments have been taken into account in the final version of the document. The project was evaluated by the Legislative Council in front of the President of the Council of Ministers, a joint committee of government and local government and the Council of Public Benefit Activities. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to conclude by saying one last thing, which I think will probably be the subject of the debate, although I do not think it will be necessary. There's no centralization of anything here. [[It is, it is.]] I know you're gonna say you are, even you're gonna take the floor on this. Until now, the FIO, the Civil Initiative Fund, has been the responsibility of the Ministry of the Family, which is another government institution, and is now in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, also the government institution, so nothing has changed in this respect. One thing has changed, Member. So far, the FIO has had a budget of 60 million, and now we want to increase this budget, not at the expense of other projects, but at the expense of imposing a tax on the Sports Totalizator, it will be a minimum of 100 million. So we increase resources, we don't centralize, we move from one government authority to another government body. The charge of any centralisation or taking away any funds is completely unfounded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u634	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Andzel will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u635	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the government draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development, print No. 1713. The aim of the bill is to create the legal and institutional conditions necessary for the establishment of an institution whose sole task would be to implement programmes supporting the development of civil society in Poland. As an executive agency, the National Institute is to implement state policy on civil society development based on the principles of openness, competitiveness and transparency. The proposed law provides for the transfer by the Minister for Social Security of regulatory powers concerning public benefit and volunteering and supervision of public benefit organisations to the President of the Council of Ministers and the implementation of government grant and operational programmes, such as the Civil Initiative Fund, to the national centre. The new institution will take over the tasks by extending them to new priorities. This solution will allow for a horizontal perspective on coordination, monitoring of state support policies for the civil sector, impossible from the level of one department. The tasks of the national institute will include: actions to promote the development of the civic community, civil society in the Republic of Poland, in particular by enhancing the institutional efficiency of NGOs and other organised forms of civil society, their independence and professionalism, while preserving their civil character. The National Institute will also run capacity-enhancing programmes for NGOs and other organised forms of civil society, including: by supporting the acquisition of extra-budgetary resources for civil society development activities and the promotion of human resources development, with particular emphasis on volunteers. The bill provides for the creation of a Committee on Public Use, which will exercise direct supervision of the national institute, which will ensure that civil society development activities in the Republic of Poland are properly addressed. The national bodies of the Institute will be the Director and the National Council of the Institute. The composition of the 11th National Council of the Institute, to which as many as five members representing NGOs are to enter, is an expression of their willingness to act transparently and to declare their openness to social control. The number of members representing NGOs has been increased by numerous comments made during the public consultation. The proposed law is extremely expected and needed. The bill was drawn up after taking into account the numerous votes of non-governmental organisations presented during formal consultations, in discussions in all voivodships, as well as the votes and discussions accompanying the evaluation and inter-ministerial reconciliation processes. In addition, the idea was part of the electoral programme of Law and Justice and was presented in various bodies and has many supporters. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and is in favour of referring it to further work in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u636	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Monica Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u637	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are destroying the three divisions of power in Poland, trampling on the constitution, destroying democracy, restricting civil rights, restricting women's rights. It's time for a fight today, to run a division against non-governmental organizations. Today, with this presentation, the PiS starts to fight against independent, active, independent NGOs, against civil Poland, communities that carry out public tasks and build social capital, against non-governmental organisations that form the basis for building the rule of law society, a society that respects democracy and respect citizenship, which eventually build authorities, authorities so much needed today, and which build decency and apolitical activity. PiS wants to set up a central agency. This artificial creation is centralization, and centralization is involuntary - the insubordination of non-governmental organizations free from political colors, and support for organisations that are only obedient and loyal. We have this beginning, this seed: here is the PiS-owska TV attacking individual NGOs, here you are deprived of the grant of the Center for Women's Rights, which has been helping women for 20 years, here is the money you spend for Father Rydzyk to carry out tasks that he has never done, because it is the payment of campaign debts. You also wanted to take over the Norwegian funds, the funds for non-governmental organisations. That's bad news for non-governmental organisations, the third sector. It will not be an institute of freedom, nor will it be a national centre. It will be an institute of enslavement and obedience. Minister, you don't like organizations because they're free because they're citizens. When you break the law with parliamentary violence, destroying the values that Poles, including you, built over the years, it is NGOs that are a burden and unnecessary burden for you, especially those guarding you who point and speak loudly in public space about your lawlessness. Does the High House know that the project has not been consulted? The consulted version is different from the submission we are working on. Moreover, some month ago, Minister Lipiński at a public benefit council convention assured NGOs that the project would be further consulted and created together with the sector. So, Minister? And a lie. But the lie has short legs. On the other hand, the project quickly appeared in the Sejm and we will probably have the express procession and signature of President Duda, who claims that it is the Polish Gazeta Clubs that build civil society. High Izbo! This law is unnecessary, very dangerous, but above all unwanted by non-governmental organisations and adversely opinionated by these organisations. It does not give tools to solve problems that are defined in the justification for its creation. The law is to implement a civil society development strategy, but it has not yet been developed. Let me remind you that in March 2016, Prime Minister Beata Szydło asked NGOs to work together on the project and stressed its importance for the government. But the words ended. So I ask the Minister: Minister, where is the strategy? The act in this form gives the director the competence of the Centre - it is appointed for 5 years - to grant grants without competitions, without transparency, without transparency up to 200,000. zł. It sets up a public benefit committee, but it does not look for representation of non-governmental organisations, which is a denial of the achievements of recent years. The President of the Committee on Public Use is to play a major and most important role, and only the apparent impact is given to the third sector. The majority of organisations taking part in the consultation - a project other than the one we are conducting - made a clear criticism. The Polish Federation of NGOs has sent an appeal to Members and Members to reject the bill. You, Minister, have also received this appeal. Many positive changes were made during the Platform and PSL in cooperation with the third sector. New, friendly rights for public collections, grants for security organisations, principles of good public consultation and joint programmes with resorts have been complemented by the facilitations and simplifications introduced. Today we should continue positive changes in a transparent way, and above all with NGOs, and you are opening the door only for discretionary, ideological visions and decisions. You have divided Poland and Poles, you drive on lies and manipulations. Now you want to divide NGOs into good ones and bad ones. Now national organizations are to be right, and only the ones are to be right. Don't kill non-governmental organizations. Don't kill their freedom and independence. Reject in full at first reading this harmful and unwanted project by the third sector, by NGOs. Don't go down Putin's road. I submit an appropriate request on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Don't kill me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just like the courts, non-governmental organizations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u638	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Ms Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 against the procedated Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development from print No. 1713. In the explanatory memorandum, you described the problems of Polish NGOs very widely, and the Minister mentioned them here, based above all on the data of the organizations themselves and the research they carried out. True, it is still a sector that is developing, but it is developing very, very dynamically. The non-governmental sector is actually the backbone of true intelligence, incredible human potential and the most democratic values based on freedom and social solidarity. Prime Minister Gliński knows this very well because he has worked with this sector for many years. Why is he like this? That is why - the name itself indicates - that it is outside the government, because it is made up of people who act from the heart's instinct, based on real, diagnosed needs that they observe themselves. There are very well-educated, active people who have very good intentions, are creative, entrepreneurial, effective and who really want to change this world. Of course, they have no money for their actions, but nevertheless they do very difficult, difficult tasks for you. They often perform them effectively and very effectively. Where the state is inefficient - and there are plenty of such spheres - inadequately effective, where the non-governmental sector does so. You can't deny that it is. There are many very difficult areas, things. It's not necessarily just social services. This is education - because the first in terms of the number of organizations is education - this is tourism, culture, social assistance of course, medical care, the rule of law or the monitoring of power. We as politicians really expect their help. Then why do we find them so uncompetent that they cannot ensure their own cooperation or co-ordination with the local government, or even when it comes to co-decisioning on the allocation of funds? Unfortunately, you are creating another institution that does not actually solve the problems that you described in the explanatory memorandum. In fact, the national center will only replace the ministry department, the Department of Public Use. In fact, it will only increase the number of official posts. The head of this centre will be the Prime Minister, and so far it has been the Minister, while NGOs will have a marginal role in this centre, which is the same as they have so far. If the government really wants to build civil society, it should use the mechanisms that NGOs themselves, learning, have already developed, from the potential of the sector, in such a way that it entrusts them with tasks entirely, especially those tasks which it has just written down in the law as those to be carried out by the national centre. They'll be fine. I'm sure they will. Besides, I'm from the community of NGOs myself. The state should only deal with monitoring and control of spent funds, public money, and leave the rest really to non-governmental organisations. They're well organized. There is no direct indication in this law that the resources of the Civil Initiative Fund will increase, although the Prime Minister had previously announced on Twitter - I was even very happy about it - that this pool will actually increase. This bill doesn't have it fully written down. Most things are to be regulated by the Minister's regulations. The non-governmental sector can only be strengthened in such a way that it can be trusted even more and given the resources for the tasks that you are doing. Most social assistance services provided by the non-governmental sector are done much better - this is an example - and much cheaper. In the explanatory memorandum, the state cites examples from abroad, but you skip examples such as that in Germany 80% NGOs, social services perform tasks for the state, 70% are medical services. Culture and education tasks are also practically entirely carried out by the non-governmental sector in Germany. The state doesn't do the grace sector. In fact, it is the sector that does them in many tasks. To sum up, the law will do nothing for the sector, but poses a risk of politicising the sector and does not sufficiently involve the sector in the planned actions. In fact, the only provision that can be pointed out as positive is that there is an opportunity to finance the organisation's statutory activities - so far it has not been possible - although I do not know if it is something that will really undo this sector even more. As far as the Minister's statement is concerned, the FIO wasn't. It's just a realization. The FIO was a program, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which has grown for many years, has been constructed by NGOs and has embraced exactly all those spheres which are included at the national centre. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u640	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u641	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of the State Act on the Establishment of an Institute to take over the allocation of funds dedicated to non-governmental institutions is nothing more than an attack on the non-governmental sector. The assassination of public media, the assassination of three divisions of power, the upside-down of education, the ban on people's right to free assembly - all of which you have done, and now you are attacking civil society and non-governmental institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! Even their name itself says that organisations should be outside the government, which means they should be independent of the government. The establishment of this government body of yours, which will be arbitrary, according to the will of the state, has decided which organization deserves support and whose funding we will cut off, is merely the destruction of what we have been able to achieve for 27 years. You want to take control of the financing of the third sector. In this way you deprive thousands of those in need of help and show thousands of these activists that the institutions of the state do not want us to be citizens, you want us to be free from power. Even the Norwegian Government, which transfers Norwegian funds, does not agree with your proposed way of distributing them and calls it simply undemocratic and creating a field for abuse. Minister Lipiński, you were standing here, by this platform, and you were just lying. By listening to your statement at all, it is clear that you do not know what you are talking about at all. I come from a non-governmental environment, I set up non-governmental organisations, and I work in them until now. What you're saying is clearly lies. There was no consultation with the environment of NGOs. The non-governmental environments have tabled a number of amendments, including that in order not to create this institute. You didn't listen to them. That is not enough, you have also stated in your justification that there were teams of experts who worked on this bill. This is also a terrible lie, because no experts have spoken at all on this matter. Few of this, Mr Lipiński, at the meeting of the Convention of Councils of Benefits on 9 June 2017, promised that a revised project, which we are debating and which no one has ever seen before, would be consulted. So pay attention to the fact that what you said here was simply stern lies.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u642	Mrs Joanna Schmidt, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u643	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And I'm gonna make it clear that reading the assumptions of this project, its justification, I wiped my eyes out of my amazement. This is a project that should be rejected at first reading. That's what the modern vote will be for. The project is a mockery of civil society, the non-governmental sector. We are accustomed to the fact that the institutions appointed by the PiS bear the national term. There are already national media, there is the National Academic Exchange Agency, there is the National Protection Service. There is a lack of epithet in civil society and Catholic society, but you have also managed to do so, because in the tasks of the institute you have entered into nurturing a Christian heritage. I also do not know why with such a liking in justification you repeat the word freedom: freedom of choice, freedom. State talk of freedom is more like the ministry of truth described by Orwell. Let me remind you that this ministry was aimed at erasing the past and propaganda that changed the present. You want to centrally control the third sector. What is this idea? This is turning the idea of the third sector, NGOs upside down. You will set priorities centrally, tasks - centrally, financially support those who will humbly carry out these tasks. Besides, you do not hide it at all, because in the explanatory memorandum you wrote about the need to provide support primarily to organisations that operate in rural areas, are engaged in promotion, family issues and are active in the field of patriotic and historical education. Strange coincidence that this is a reflection of your electorate. So what's the bill for? In the light of articles, changes to articles and justifications, I can say with determination that after the implementation of this law in Poland we will have government organizations. The third sector will be government organisations, not non-governmental ones. I find the absurdity of the PIS less and less surprising, but that doesn't mean we're not supposed to oppose it. When you write that the development of NGOs faces barriers, it sounds like A bit like self-criticism, because this barrier to the development of the third sector is the PiS government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u644	Thank you. I ask Mr Krystian Jarubas to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u645	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development, print no. 1713. Ladies and gentlemen! Paradox - the word of Greek origin, according to the PWN encyclopedia, means reasoning, which each element is accompanied by apparent obviousness and which turns out to be defective. Dear applicants, the bill you're proposing is a classic paradox. Nothing to add, nothing to say. How else do you call an office that introduces government oversight of non-governmental organisations? It's a joke. The establishment of an institution to be called the Institute of Freedom, which de facto enslaves, only the PiS could figure out. I didn't accidentally use the word 'cause what else would you call this money heist for non-governmental organizations that irritate you because they're independent of you? Money, money, and more money. That's all that matters to you. You can't get over the fact that someone else decides what to spend money on, what social campaigns, projects that can often be inconsistent with the ideology of the PiS. That's why you want to put the shackles on non-governmental organizations, take under the shoes those who dare and dare to think differently from you. In fact, I'm wondering what you're thinking. Do you think Poles are stupid? You are presenting a project that does not answer a very important question: Who will decide to grant grants to NGOs? Is that a coincidence? I don't think so. The project under investigation, as my previous speakers said, was not consulted. Excellent, ladies and gentlemen, we've reviewed you. The Centre is to be supervised by the chairman of a specially established Committee on Public Use. It is to be one of the deputy prime ministers who will then appoint a director of the institute. This means that the government will have an influence on the most important functions in this office. Going further, it is the director of the institute appointed by the government who will have a decisive impact on the spending of tens of millions of zlotys from the state budget. Nice pyramid, huh? Marcin P wouldn't be ashamed. You all know very well that the management design proposed by you is not transparent and creates a field for discretionary, non-essential decisions to fund social initiatives. In conclusion, the PiS wants to introduce pathology. The day before yesterday we heard from the president of the ruling party that he and you were probably going in a different direction with him. You're actually drawn to the East. We judge the entry with boots into the third sector as a manifestation of your shoes, arrogance and the most ordinary world of vileness, which has no boundaries. What kind of person does it take to call freedom enslave those who spend their entire lives on social activities? Poland will not forget this. The Polish People's Party Club will be against the bill proposed by the PiS. Of course, we support the proposal to reject this project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u646	Thank you. And Mr Stanisław Huskowski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u647	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! I am pleased to present my opinion on the project on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats. One of the main indicators of civil society development is the involvement of citizens in the activities of NGOs. These, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, carry out tasks and fulfil those social functions which you do not fulfil for various reasons, in particular because this would be irrational. NGOs are also a mechanism that controls power on behalf of citizens. However, the vision of the PiS state is very different. All power in the country should be centralised, with a single centre of power. It's a 19th-century anachronism that they referred to in the 20th century, for example. Communists. The centre of power in the state is located in Nowogrodzka, and the government, parliament, tribunal, courts are to be executives. This model of state also provides for the submission of the central government and, as we see today, NGOs. The roads leading to this submission are different, but the goal, or subsidiary of the centre, is the same. In the case of NGOs, it is the construction of the National Institute of Freedom, where the government denomination will divide money, as well as the expansion of bureaucracy and the introduction of unclear, often discretionary criteria. Until now, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Public Use and the Department of Public Use have established key institutions for NGO activities. Following changes in civil society matters, the National Institute for Freedom - the Centre for Civil Society Development and its Director, the National Council of the Institute of Freedom as an opinion body, the Committee on Public Use and its President will be dealt with first. He will remain, as I understand it, the Department of Civil Society at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, who has so far been responsible for this bill. Finally, the representative for civil society and equal treatment, Mr Adam Lipiński. I have also read that the new institution is to employ as many as 60 officials and only 12 of them are transferred from the Ministry, 22 posts are to be paid from the budget, but the remaining 38, I understand, from funds from various sources, as is written here in the explanatory memorandum, but in particular from the funds allocated to the Civil Society Development Fund to be created from this new write-off on gambling or the Sports Totalizator. Dozens of NGOs spoke against the project. The Polish Federation of Non-Governmental Organisations, which has been associated with more than 100 NGOs, called for the rejection of the project. Even Caritas Poland formulated its critical opinion and doubts. It did refer to a slightly earlier version, but there is little difference between the previous version And it's being presented today. Caritas Poland writes in its opinion: The proposed legislation raises doubts as to the application by the government of the principles of subsidiarity, sovereignty of the parties, partnership, efficiency, fair competition, transparency and justice by the NGO. It's hard to come up with a more devastating review for a project that's supposed to help NGOs. Caritas also draws attention to the small competences of the National Council of the Centre and its marginalisation of NGO representatives. It is also written, and I quote here that the representative of the civil society government has powers that are clearly disproportionate to the powers of the above mentioned. Councils, which is an organ appointed by the government, not elected and collegial. The system of evaluation of applications is non-categorical and conflicts with the solutions contained in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The project records provide for the separation of NGOs from consultations in the law-making process concerning non-governmental organisations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Union of European Democrats will support the proposal to reject this law at first reading. If this doesn't go away, I'm announcing a request for a public hearing. This application shall be submitted to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u648	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Four more people signed up for the questions. Are any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still willing? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, the first question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u649	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The activities of NGOs and volunteering concern different areas of life: education, culture, environmental protection, not just labour and social issues. It therefore seems appropriate to place the institution responsible for supporting the development of civil society outside the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy at government level. I would like to ask whether the funds already transferred to support public benefit organisations by the family ministry will be transferred to the scope of the Institute. I've already got the answer to that question. However, please clarify whether changes to the rules will be made in order to take greater account of the specificities of small organisations, so-called. Grass roots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u650	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mrs Monica Wielichowska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u651	I would like to ask if the removal of a civil society representative at the last stage of the work, five days before the Council of Ministers, means that it will be withdrawn from this function. Its aim, in line with the order of Prime Minister Szydło, was to develop a National Programme to support civil society development, to monitor, implement the programme, to coordinate, to monitor cooperation between government administrations and the non-governmental sector and other civil society institutions. So I'm asking if the PiS government has given up on these targets. Whether these tasks will go to a national centre or a public benefit committee, despite the announcement that this is just a so-called one. Technical law, whether there will be a double vote, two separate bodies - one, that is, Minister Lipiński, representative of the Government for Civil Society, and the other - Prime Minister Gliński, who as Deputy Prime Minister is the chairman of the Committee on Public Use, as is apparent from 21 p. the reasons for the bill? I would also like to ask you about the latest version of the law which sets up a Committee on Public Benefit, which includes the Deputy Ministers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why aren't there non-governmental organizations? It's a basic and really the most important question of today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u652	Thank you, Member. Mr Maciej Masłowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u653	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The National Institute of Freedom is designed to support citizens' initiatives, facilitate access to funding sources for NGOs, and serve as a citizen's control of public institutions, namely freedom, civil society and control of power. The vast majority of the laws that have been passed by the government majority in this term of office are moving towards an increase in the powers of the central authority. The powers and decision-making power are increasingly concentrated in the centre of Warsaw. We've even seen it in the case of TSOs that are trying to make themselves financially dependent on the main command. Does this whole centralization require a special institute that will be an appropriate fig leaf? Why should Warsaw be the seat of the Institute? Is this the only Polish city? Isn't she sick of all the institution's ointment? Now that you're building such an institute, why don't you at least symbolically locate it outside of Warsaw? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u654	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. There isn't. Mr Jacek Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u655	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'm a social psychologist, and at the same time I'm a social psychologist from the NGO. Thank you for this initiative, for this project. I would like to say that I am amazed, ladies and gentlemen, when you say that there has been no consultation when I myself and my organisations have been able to participate in this consultation. In addition, you are quoting the entries from the document submitted, which we are analysing where NGOs had the opportunity to express their views. I would like to ask the question, Minister, if the designed Institute of Freedom warns us of a situation in which NGOs, as so far, have not had security of financing actions? They made ideas, invited people, and then abandoned them, because they just didn't have the means to continue their work. There was frustration, dislike, and civil activity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u656	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u657	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In a democratic country, the functions of civil society are extremely important, but it is important that these social organisations are independent. Unfortunately, this independence should be looked at with concern after the introduction of this law, because it seeks to politicise these organisations and should rather be called the Civil Society Act under the supervision of the PiS. But it is worth pointing out a point and asking a question. Wouldn't it be better not to steer and manipulate a stream of money at the disposal of the government to draw attention to the legal barriers that such organisations face? Only 20% of organizations in Poland benefit from funding at the disposal of the government. Since the strategy for responsible development speaks so much about removing legal barriers to institutions, for companies, for business, it may be worth looking at issues relating to the lifting of legal barriers to government money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u658	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus a question. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] This is Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u659	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Non-governmental organisations, by definition, should be independent of power and do not have to like it. You want to change this and take control of the central, manual distribution of funds to NGOs, dividing them into good ones and bad ones that will not please the government and they can look at your hands. The director of the newly created national centre will have the freedom, the right to establish the rules of procedure of each competition without uniform rules. This, of course, raises concern that the regulations will be written under some organizations and against others. My question is this. The National Centre for Civil Society Development is to employ as many as 60 officials. Only 12 of them are transferred from the Ministry, 22 posts are to be paid from the budget and the remaining 38 posts from the funds allocated to the Civil Society Development Fund. Will the national centre not consume the funds allocated to non-governmental organisations by using them to support its employees? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u660	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u661	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the idea of setting up a public benefit committee. It follows from the proposed law that it will be the committee which will determine the state's civil society development policy and will be composed of representatives of the ministries. Explain to me what is the point of centralizing the topics that foundations, organizations, associations should deal with. Don't you think that's against the idea of a third sector? Why aren't there third-sector representatives on the committee? Is it your plan to make the third sector another wing of support for the PiS government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u662	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u663	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To be able to talk about a democratic state, at least three conditions must be met: the division of power, free media and independent, autonomous NGOs. You have destroyed free media a long time ago, calling them national, and their nationality is that two days ago you threw a journalist out of the job because he asked an uncomfortable question to Prime Minister Szydło. You took out the power division about an hour ago. And now you want to take a short leash with NGOs. I wonder who you're gonna give the money to. Maybe the cooperative institute. Stefczyk? I think so. I think that's what you're doing. Besides, it sounded a little bit in the Minister's speech. Minister! How long will Poles be ashamed of what you're doing? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How long will Poland be a black sheep among the democratic countries of the world through the actions of the PiS government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u664	Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mrs Aldona Młyńczak. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] This is Mr Mirosław Pampuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u665	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that today's theme was the issue of road toll. Under the cover of this theme, the PiS government is pushing another law that this time is destroying the independence of the NGO sector. The fact is that organisations in this sector can carry out a number of public tasks with great success, and in a very efficient way. On the other hand, the government imposes a specific muzzle on these organisations and decides arbitraryly which of these organisations and for which purposes they will obtain funds. In your explanatory memorandum, you write that the 11th National Council of the Institute will include 5 members representing NGOs, which is just enough so that they will not vote anything out. Full control will be on the government's side. You are also pointing out that the Council will be qualified by those organisations which will gain the support of 20 other NGOs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if there are many of these organizations, what will be the way of choosing representatives to this national council of the institute? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Draw will be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u666	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mr Marek Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u667	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here is the order or irony of fate that makes Law and Justice want to create a national institution today, supposedly appropriate for supporting the development of civil society, as well as public benefit activities. This is being done by a party that has destroyed Poland's public life over the past few months, by undertaking a number of anti-democratic and anti-Citizenial enterprises, a party that openly fights the most famous NGOs and mocks their volunteers. Government television even allows itself to erase the logo of a charity campaign known worldwide. Today, from the position of Warsaw, the government will decide the fate of the omen of non-governmental organizations, which are very often carried out by you, carrying out wonderful projects. I have a question: Is the writing of the article. In paragraph 2, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 3 in point 3 means that the Director will be free to grant non-competition grants up to 200 000. Evil? Is that the intention of the authors of the bill? Second question. What's the point of so many jobs if you're complaining that the number of employees in the nonprofit sector is low? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to know the amount, cost of establishing and operating the new institution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u668	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u669	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The title of the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development is in deep contradiction with the content of this project, its content. What does this project contain? Centralisation of measures, submission to one decision-maker, only the right one, and selective, discretionary support for non-governmental organisations, only those that support the government's line of action. This course of action is contrary to the philosophy of non-governmental organisations. In all democratic countries, non-governmental organisations and their activities are completely independent and they create the development of civil society to a very large extent. Why does Law and Justice limit the independence and activity of NGOs in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u670	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u671	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In general, the mere fact that we are talking about something called the National Institute of Freedom is already an absurdity in the context of NGOs, and rather everyone is aware of it. Isn't this law just an ideological dimension? In fact, you will eliminate by your approach to subsidising the organisations you choose, those that will act against the line of the ruling party. It's scary, really. I very much regret that there is so little interest today, especially from the ruling party, because someone should oppose it. The whole essence of NGOs is that they carry out certain tasks, which are very often not at the hands of the governing party, and can be used. They do not have to agree, and they should very often disagree with the ruling party. By what you're doing today, and I hope everyone hears about it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will ultimately eliminate many organisations that will not be given the funds for their activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u672	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska. There is no Member. This is Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u673	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have already named it in this House, from this place, your so-called one. A good change is only a semantic change, because your change is about changing the meaning of words. And in this context, you don't even have to change the constitution, all you have to do is change the English dictionary and write it down... Because law doesn't mean law anymore, it means lawlessness, freedom means slavery. In this context, it is also possible to start this law with a dictionary, because the national institute means party, civil society is actually a court plus a second kind of service, and it is headed by the director of the institute, the ecologists, who will give a donation from your money to the clerks. That's how you see the role of NGOs -- that was supposed to be the question -- isn't it? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u674	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u675	The National Institute of Freedom is supposed to implement programmes to support the development of civil society. I wanted to ask you where you can get acquainted with these programs, because they are not public, they are not known to us. Where are they published, where are they available? And if they're not ready yet, will the National Freedom Institute also create them? If so, will it not argue with this, it will not contradict the theory of the merely technical nature of this institution? Would it not be logical, however, to refrain from setting up this institution until such time as the government's representative, supported by the Department of Civil Society in KPRM, led by director Wojciech Kaczmarczyk, face of today's draft law? Finally, from this place, I would like to call very cordially for you not to waste the achievements of many NGOs, which have been very effective in solving various social problems for years, performing public tasks, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they do it to public administration and, most importantly, they do it very well and, above all, they do it too much less money. I'm asking you to remember this very carefully. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u676	Thank you, Member. Mr Sławomir Piechota. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u677	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that civil society must be strengthened and that commitment to common issues must be supported. But what you're proposing here is more like the method of the musician Janka. It'll burn down initiatives, put out civic engagement, because it's more of a law on the organisation of non-governmental organisations. How does this law apply to the principle of subsidiarity, fundamental, constitutional, building civil engagement? How is it possible that this project was not consulted with the Council of Public Use Activities? How is that possible? How does this apply to these consultation declarations, opening them up, stimulating them? No, it's a certain office that's supposed to create an appearance and replace it. Would that be the trademark of the organization's undertaking? [[♪ The bell ♪]] non-governmental? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u678	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota. Mr Wojciech Wilk. Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u679	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask what role the Council of Public Use will have after the bill has been passed. It is a body that has long worked for its reputation and position, and the bill, creating many new bodies, such as the committee for good, the council of the centre, can significantly weaken the role of the council of benefit. Minister, what will be the cost of the National Freedom Institute? The task of the National Institute of Freedom will be to support the involvement of citizens. And did you ask Poles if they wanted to? NGOs are doing great, they're doing great, and they can raise money for their business, so why do you keep them happy? Under what conditions will funds be provided for the implementation of projects for associations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If it's in the middle of a contest, when are the first competitions going to be? Who's gonna be able to run? Will they only be beneficiaries associated with the right option? Will they be based on the principles of subsidiarity...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u680	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u681	...the supremacy of the parties, the effectiveness, fair competition and transparency? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u682	Thank you. And Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u683	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The third sector, NGOs, is the success of free Poland, democratic Poland. I think that many of us today have the chills to listen to, thinking about this project, and it's not about air conditioning at all. How can you believe in the Institute of Freedom, including the national term, after what you did with the Constitutional Tribunal, with the KRS, with the Assembly Act, with the media? It's obvious, it's obvious that you're doing this because these NGOs are just doing great, they're independent, they're strong and they're very civic. Have you thought about this, if you already have some organizations in your head to strengthen them in some other way, create a department within your KPRM, and leave this last, clear, visible bastion of the Polish citizen, free Poland? [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u684	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u685	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since NGOs didn't have the opportunity to ask questions during the consultation, let me ask you about the article. 30 of the project, which determines the procedure of the tender contest based on the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, while at the same time provides for other models of offers, contracts, reports on the performance of the task, as well as other selection criteria. Does this mean that the mode from the national centre is to replace the one from the public benefit law, or is it to be next, while adding further selection criteria and further detailed solutions? The first solution would mean that this is a breach in existing mechanisms, and will create a specific regulation, more susceptible to discretionary evaluation by the Director, transferring these regulations from the Regulation to the Centre's Rules of Procedure. And if the latter were true, it would be in contradiction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with your declarations of making it easier for social organisations to raise public funds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u686	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u687	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! If this project were really doing all the things that you guys are saying here, and what is written in the explanatory memorandum, that it would have such a great impact on the development of sector three, this sector would have welcomed it with enthusiasm. However, most organisations strongly reject this project because there was no such thing as a national centre as a government proxy, such as the appointment of even members to the council of representatives of third sector organisations by the government, not so that they could choose themselves. Besides, this project appears at a time when you are quite unbelievable. If 800 million funds from the Norwegian Fund cannot reach Poland because a small part of it, 10% , she was going to go to non-governmental organizations, and you want the government to designate an organization that will share the money, not that organizations themselves could be selected by way of a competition, those that will share it, and if so far there are no funds allocated from the funds [[♪ The bell ♪]] for refugees awarded by the European Union to organisations that deal with this... It's just hard to understand that it's a project that's supposed to make someone happy, and today the beneficiaries are absolutely against it. But why don't you want to get out of these ideas, since sector three...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u688	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u689	...who has, so to speak, to use it, to reject this project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u690	Thank you, sir. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u691	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! You probably have, because this has been happening since the beginning of this idea - and I am thinking about the idea of setting up a National Institute of Freedom - awareness of the strongly resounding voices of non-governmental organisations, which have already been taught by other examples and practices in our everyday life, under the rule of law and justice, are afraid and unfortunately have legitimate concerns that it will be another institution, where every single decision will unfortunately be of a non-essential nature, but only political nature. There was a moment, a very short time when it seemed that we could even have a discussion about the direction of civil society development, when a consultation was announced on a national programme to support civil society development. However, the work on this programme was suspended, not continued. That's why I'm asking you, will you decide? [[♪ The bell ♪]] will work on this programme, however, continue and be carried out? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u692	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u693	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The Government of Law and Justice, contrary to the opposition of NGOs, is setting up a centralised institution against its previous promises to subjugate NGOs. And that's how NGOs become government, and if they don't want to submit, they're just gonna cut off their donations. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no human rights organisations, no women's rights organisations, no democracy organisations. Non-governmental organisations are by definition not linked to public authority, and this draft law creates an institute, which is inversely referred to as the Institute of Freedom, which is intended to control the third sector. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u694	Thank you. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. There isn't. This is Mrs. Catherine Osos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u695	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me quote the words of the Prime Minister Prof. Gliński on non-governmental organisations. NGOs play a decisive role in shaping civil society. Next: Only civil society is able to control the powerful structures of political, economic power and mitigate the effects of various internal tensions in society. Only it can liberate social reserves and civic energy even in situations - it would seem - hopeless social and cultural crises. And if we look at NGOs like that, we already know why you want to paralyze independent organisations, why you are so afraid of civil society. You're looking at their activities as a threat to your own interests. After all, you cannot allow power to be controlled to build a citizen's consciousness to organize, carry out campaigns that are not in line with your vision. What is the purpose of this bill? Just eliminate from our public space the uncomfortable NGOs for you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because this will lead to the departure from the transparent rules on funding and the nationalisation of non-governmental organisations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u696	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Kostus.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u697	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This bill contradicts the missions, ideas, objectives and tasks of non-governmental organisations, the foundations of the civil state. It's harmful, so it's unnecessary. And the question is, is it true that the government wants to take full ownership of the third sector by taking control of its financing? Is it true that the government completely ignored the appeals and demands of non-governmental organisations during the consultation of this draft law? Is it true that the newly set-up centre will consume the funds allocated to NGOs by allocating them for the maintenance of its employees, which means that the funds for NGOs will decrease? Is it true that the Polish Federation of NGOs had failed to call on Prime Minister Beata Szydło to not accept this project? Finally, is it true that the development of a civil society development strategy has not yet begun? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u698	Thank you. Mr Rafał Grupiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u699	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was in Wrocław in the 1980s. Mole Publishing House. It took care of, among other things. issues of national minorities. You can say that the Minister has returned to his sources today in his role, among others. responsible for these issues in the government. But these are no longer the same sources, unfortunately, because you are taking part in the creation of an institution which is to be the centre of civil society, while civil society is primarily a place of decentralisation, is the fulfilment of 15 articles. the constitution on decentralisation and the release of citizens' initiatives. The creation of such an institution, which will centralize the flow of money to non-governmental organisations, in fact by creating control, is a denial of those ideas, which include. In this publication I mentioned, they were once preached. That's why I'm surprised you're authorising this kind of thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A project, very, actually, anti-Citizen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u700	Thank you. And Mr Jacek Tomczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u701	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The very idea of the establishment by the government of a centre, an institute - a centre for the development of civil society seems quite absurd to me, as civil society needs first and foremost independence and decentralisation, not dependence and centralisation. That is why a more appropriate name for this institution would be the name: the centre of the winding-up of civil society. When a country starts to control the functioning and funding framework of non-governmental organisations strongly, such associations appear clearly. I have a question for the applicants. Do you not think that this institution will be a kind of ephemeral, which, instead of stimulating the dynamic development of the third sector in Poland, will become a political muzzle for NGOs? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u702	Thank you very much. In this we have exhausted the list of people who are written down for questions. In view of the above, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers of Minister Adam Lipiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u703	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To tell you the truth, I'm surprised at a lot of questions because either I don't know this bill or the people who ask these questions don't know this bill. Maybe I'll start with the most obvious thing: centralization. I knew there'd be a charge. So far, the FIO has had a total of 60 million. Now this amount is going to go downtown. As for the entity, nothing changes: and here was the government entity, and here is the government entity. As far as I'm concerned, you weren't complaining about what the FIO was doing, so why would you presume that this center would do reprehensible things? Because it's an anticipation. If we didn't do the wrong thing at the FIO, why do you think we're gonna do the wrong thing downtown? I don't get it. Now I'm going to answer specific questions, some specific questions. There are no representatives of the organisation in the public benefit committee, because this is due to the constitutional rules of the committee, the function of the committee, it is a public authority, while there are representatives in the Council of the Centre, there are five of them. In the initial phase we wanted less, as a result of the consultation we introduced five. [[But it doesn't play a role, Minister.]] With regard to the priorities of the FIO, there will be a greater participation of smaller organisations that operate locally. Indeed, this was one of the main demands of the consultations we had. Besides, I don't know why you're saying there was no consultation. There were 23 meetings across the country, several hundred organisations took part in them, a lot of NGOs took part, more, they tabled a lot of amendments, some of which we introduced into the final version of the document. The final version differs from the one we consulted with these organisations because we introduced some into this document. Next - I am looking for these most important comments - finance. The cost of the Institute for the State budget is PLN 3.5 million per year. The first competitions will start in 2018, i.e. next year. There is a call for a better temptation to remove legal barriers than to create a new institution. Of course, you should do both. As part of the civil society support strategy, a team is working to minimise legal barriers, and soon this document will be available. Caritasu's comments related to the entries which were deleted, which concerned the award of grants other than under the Law on Public Use. This type of institution operates in many European countries, it is not our idea, some kind of dream that has not come true anywhere. It operates in Germany, Sweden, Canada, Estonia, Croatia and many other countries. Grant decisions - this is the most painful for some - will be made on the basis of the provisions of the Public Benefit Act. Nothing changes around here, which is why I'm surprised at the doubt. There is a law on public benefit, there is a detailed description of how these funds are allocated, there is a government entity both - from one we took to the other, and nothing changes here. All in all, the allegations of any centralization are completely unfounded. At the proxy there are six expert teams, the most active team finishes work on the programme for the development of Polish Solidarity Corps volunteering. In the next few dozen days - I don't want to give you a specific date anymore, because in two months, you Member will tell me: you lied again - in a few weeks there will be a programme for the development of Polish Solidarity Corps's volunteering... [[Minister, if you're lying, you're lying, that's what I'm saying.]] ...and the team that prepares - the second of these six - the establishment of a support programme for folk universities. With regard to the role of representative of the Government for Civil Society, at the time of the establishment of the Committee on Public Use - it is written so, but it will be the decision of the Prime Minister at the request of the President of the Committee - the representative will be vice-president of this Committee, i.e. a uniform decision-making structure. As far as the Council of Public Uses is concerned, of course these documents were consulted, and I also do not know where the allegation was made that they were not. Anticipating people to divide organizations into good and bad - you know, I have this observation that it's not even about what's written in this bill, it's about us changing anything at all, because if we're changing anything, it's a pretext for attacking the government, that we're fascising public life, that we want to destroy NGOs, that we don't appreciate their role. It's the opposite, so I don't get it at all. The Council of Public Use Activities is to be the consultative body of the Chairman of the Committee. I already told you there was a consultation. The fact that we want to keep the FIO's achievements, all the agreements concluded under the FIO will continue, will change only the fund operator. The total amount of 60 million will not be reduced, and we will also introduce new government support programmes for NGOs, i.e. The Institutional Grants Fund will allocate at least an additional 40 million of the proceeds from gambling subsidies. That's it. Once again, I call not to assume a priori that we have bad will, and not to use every subject to attack the Law and Justice, because we will come to some total absurdity in this parliament. Everything that Law and Justice do, even the most minor thing, a small initiative, is used for a total attack that we destroy someone, that we lie, that we should be ashamed. [[Voice from the room: Not at all.]] I am not ashamed of this document and I am not ashamed of it, I think it is a very good mechanism for supporting civil society and non-governmental organisations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u704	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Piotr Gliński, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, asked for the floor. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u705	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! I asked for the floor because, of course, I'm a co-author, one of the co-authors of this initiative... [[There's nothing to brag about.]] ...and also because I have devoted several dozen years of my professional and civic life to these organizations, I have co-created this sector in Poland, and I am happy to present this project in the Polish Sejm today. Like the Minister, I will try to find a place of good faith in myself, and I will not respond to this political ritual that spilled out here, all these amazing words, epithets, innuendoes, various kinds of assessments, including ignorance of facts. So I will not refer to this, but I would like to clarify a few more points. If you don't want to hear this... I don't know if you're able to accept the arguments, because from these questions and from this discussion, you don't really want to. But I assume that we want to talk and that this is the place of debate. I also want to address, of course, the public on these issues... [[Grace.]] ...Mr. Chairman. Firstly, as has already been said, there is a problem with the Polish non-governmental sector. For decades he has actually developed. It developed the most dynamicly for several years in the early 1990s, and later it developed much less dynamically and is still at the end of Europe. As regards the number of organisations, the number of active people, the number of volunteers, as regards the social capital ratio, which is often linked to the maturity of civil society, unfortunately we are at the end of European countries. Throughout these twenty years after 1989, unfortunately, little has changed in this regard despite reforms and changes. At first, they did not occur at all when, to a greater extent, this sector was mastered by the direct successors of the previous system, then these changes occurred, but they did not respond to the main challenges of this sector. Several were already mentioned here, about the fact that in this sector are dominated by small organizations, which for practically many years nobody in Poland has been seriously engaged as a country, and even internal diversity and strength of the organization... Definitely this diversity increased together, e.g. with European funds. I do not know whether you know that the data on public and public funds allocated to organisations were inaccurately reported here. Up to 20% are those organisations that have ever seen any European funds in Poland - I am talking about pre-accession and post-accession. So the vast minority had anything to do with these changes related to the entry into the European Union, with European money. As far as public funding is concerned, the vast majority of funding for NGOs are public, government and local government funds. So let's not talk about the fact that you're suddenly getting into something. Public funds dominate this sector, which is understandable because this sector was created from nothing after the Polish People's Republic, after mental, institutional and property damage. We could never build this sector on the basis of private property, because Poles simply did not have it, and then it was too slow, for understandable reasons, to change. We don't have a stable middle class that could support this sector. Everywhere in the world, to a greater or lesser extent, whether in the European or Anglo-Saxon model, the state is involved in supporting the non-governmental sector and it is not true that it is not. Yeah, we've gotten a little better procedures over the last 20 years. Over the years, NGOs have actually fought for more transparent, better procedures and no one has changed them. Where does it say in this project that we want to make a difference? [[Who was it?]] Many people have asked such questions here, and such questions were also in the discussion. So we're denouncing this information. The Minister has already mentioned this. And the role of the state is everywhere. If there is a role of state, you can also, if you have a lot of bad will, call it centralization. For one time I repeat that this is a transfer from one department, where it dominated historically - also the Minister said why, we all know why - to a place that is not only symmetrically but logically more meaningful. The non-governmental sector concerns all resorts, so the main state institution, which cooperates with this sector, cannot be in the same department as before. After 1989, the Polish state has always cooperated with this sector and will continue to cooperate, nothing will change here. There's always been a policy towards this sector. Unfortunately, I also critically judge this policy because it was such a policy that this sector was always somewhere at the end. What is 60 million state money in the FIO? Yes, money also in sectors, but this is really nothing compared to the opportunities of this country and the needs of the sector, the potential of the sector that has been mentioned so much here. We want to rationalize it and increase it. Of course, you can accuse us of bad will, you can politicize it if you want, but Poles listen to it and they'll judge it. We're not gonna fight right now. On the other hand, the Minister was right to say: let us not precipitate, let us not assume at once that this is supposed to be absurd, the more that this project has been known for a long time, not only in the performance of our team, i.e. a team under the direction of Wojciech Kaczmarczyk, director of the Civil Society Department at the Prime Minister's office, and the team under the direction of Minister Lipiński, but he was also presented publicly for many years in the Third Sector and later through my personal political commitment. This is the number of the third sector from 2012, where the first aggregates, already quite mature, although at that time we called these institutions differently, are very widely described. This is spring 2012, i.e. the article was written in the previous year, so at least in 2011 it was already mature. This is a law and justice program. I 2014 where there is also one chapter devoted to this project. This is the material from our July 2015 Programme Convention. I encourage our political counter-partners from the Civic Platform to organise such a programme convention. We would very much like to review it and discuss your proposals, including in this respect. There is also a chapter on these reforms. Then the Poles decided... [[The time will come, Prime Minister.]] I don't know what you're saying, Mr President, because you're talking in the middle of what I'm saying, and we're not hearing each other. The Poles so decided that we could begin to implement these projects, to detail them. Things have changed a lot. There's one thing I have to admit. In fact, 95% of the project was consulted and 5% were consulted. It happened at the last minute. And he's in the Seym right now, where he'll also be subject to consultation. We may be ready to listen if this does not reduce the chance of setting up an institute quickly, because the institute needs to be set up quickly so that there is no break, because rightly NGOs ask whether there will be a break in funding. We don't want there to be a break in funding, so the institution needs to be set up quickly. Yes, this change mainly concerns the committee, and I am very pleased that this committee was invented by us at the last stage, because it is doing what I personally and very many of my collaborators have been doing for years: raising the political profile of NGOs in Poland. They have always been at the end and at the margin and always by politics, by stronger sectors, because the business sector is also stronger, they have been marginalized. Because it is a committee which is a constitutional body of government and covers all departments, it is given a much higher political rank. Why can't NGOs be there? The Minister said: the constitution does not foresee that NGOs can be delegated to the strict bodies in any way. government. The tasks of the Committee shall be described. This is the organization of this cooperation. Of course, you can say that we want to centralize, kill, destroy, etc. We want to create rational conditions for citizens organized in NGOs in Poland. We also want to make it possible to create much better working conditions for these organisations, among others. by increasing resources. The Minister has already responded to this. Yes, we managed to win a few percent of these gambling funds for a special fund that will strengthen the existing FIO funds. We think it will be an additional PLN 40 million a year. So I hope that this will be good for Polish NGOs. Why will there be more people employed? Because, first of all, there will be more money to be given away, so unfortunately it is necessary to do so professionally, Mr President. This will not be done simply or through clientelism, which, as you know, in this Poland which you built, flourished perfectly. Now that you're criticizing this, I'm going to allow myself a slight criticism of your accomplishments. [[I don't recall. I didn't have any clienteleism.]] I'm talking about the theoretical state you created. It was theoretical, among others. because there was clienteleism there, also in the non-governmental area, but I hope that there was much less clienteleism there than elsewhere. Okay, let's not argue about this. On the other hand, we want all the dysfunctions of the sector that exist... And the sector is aware of that because it described it itself, and I also analyzed it as a sociologist, but the most important thing is what the sector itself described and what was accepted by activists. The fact that the sector's control function collapsed was already noticed in the first half of the 1990s. Why did she fall? Because this clientelism was much stronger than the sense of mission and the ability to be a security organization. There are no effective security organizations in Poland. Just as there are very weak think tanks, Member. Unfortunately, it is so in comparison with other mature countries that... [[They're here. And you're afraid of them.]] There isn't. There were several programs that supported these security organizations. They're weak, they're inefficient and they're not independent. We want to build this independence. [[Now the Polish Gazeta groups will be guardian organizations.]] I would suggest that we discuss things differently, because that's not how we hear each other, and it doesn't make much sense. In Poland we have trouble with the widely described phenomenon, dependence on grants or grantosis. There is something about the fact that organizations very often resign from their mission because their working conditions depend on what access to the various means by which they can survive or survive. We want to rationalise this, we want to change it, just as we want to change excessive governmentalisation, i.e. dependence on government institutions, or excessive dependence on local government institutions, which is also observed and obvious, because the local organisation, which is dependent on local government, is no longer independent, just as we want to change many other phenomena - I will not talk more about them than I do. - that require a change. It's not done against NGOs. Of course NGOs are as divided as the whole environment is. politically and politically... I am very surprised by this letter from the National Federation of NGOs. I know this organization, you can say that in some sense I have been involved since the very establishment of this organization in its operation. I'm surprised this organization wrote such unsubstantiated criticism. This criticism, that is, the answer to this criticism, has been published. It's quite clear that it's a little bit of bad will, a little misunderstanding, a little misreading, probably some kind of political commitment or commitment. [[Organizations are apolitical.]] On the other hand, many non-governmental organisations, Commissioner, have been demanding sector reform for years, not only since the creation of the law on public benefit and voluntary activities in 2003 but also recently. In some sense, then, we are dealing with two realities. I've heard these words here, that this sector is developing very dynamically, and organizations are doing very well. Some cope, most cope on average and are still in trouble, and completely objective data, scientific data indicate that this sector is not developing dynamically. Unfortunately, we can curse reality, but the fact is, it's not developing dynamically. The State should be responsible for creating the conditions. We want to create conditions for independent, bottom-up activities like people want her to look like. So there is no imposition of any topics here. Yes, we want some projects, as it is quite obvious around the world, to be particularly chosen. This is a project of grants for small organizations. This is an institutional grant project, i.e. not only for tasks, but also for those who meet the relevant criteria, they will win a competition for the functioning of the institution. They've been asking for it for years. They've been asking for it. The F.I.O. was supposed to be built to do this. It wasn't done. Folk universities - because I'm obsessed with folk universities, I think it's a great idea for a Polish village. We should go back to what was being done and what is being realized, only in enclaves, poorly, so it needs to be supported. We're already supporting it. We've been in contact with this environment since today. The American Peace Corps, who once changed America a little bit, also want to offer Poles a different form. The team has been preparing for a long time, a team of people from NGOs who come from NGOs, this project of our corps of solidarity - rather Poland, but perhaps abroad, because there are also developmental needs in which NGOs operate. So these are, I think, projects that are neither political nor controversial. That's all we're talking about. All the rest are open competitions, most of the ones that used to be. On the other hand, thanks to the fact that there will be a committee as a government body, Mr politician, Mr President is an experienced politician and he knows very well that how a committee is set up within a government or a non-governmental committee, because it is constitutional and not government, it is about European affairs, and not economic affairs, that in these committees much more can be done for this area, in short, for which this committee deals, because the political power of a decision, access to public funds is much greater for such committees. This committee is to be such a gateway for Polish NGOs to politics in the sense that at political level it is simply to build better working conditions for NGOs. It's just that, not just to get politicized, implement some kind of... Of course there'll be charges like that. It's normal. If someone's in politics, it's hard not to be accused of it. So we take it on the chest. However, whoever will rule in Poland will benefit from such institutional solutions for the benefit of NGOs and civil society, because we all need civilised, organised and democratic civil society rules. Just a few more comments. There was talk of the Norwegians. This is another lie and ignorance of it. First, the Norwegian measures were implemented through state institutions. Unfortunately, the people who asked these questions left the room, but maybe someone will tell them. For the time being, I repeat in public space that the Norwegian measures were implemented by state institutions. They were. Yes, sir. Yes, sir, they were. [[But that's what he said. 10% wasn't there.]] No, I'm talking about these measures for NGOs. They were implemented by the government agenda of their time. Recently, the Norwegians have decided on the Batory Foundation - such a model of an independent, non-governmental organization, as we know - and our proposal to return to that concept was not accepted. We gave it up a few months ago. I therefore inform you that we do not insist on this. We're looking for a compromise, and we're moving on. Even last week, we had talks with the ambassador because we talk in different groups and move on. This compromise will be reached. The Norwegian provision is inaccurate because, on the one hand, the donor country actually decides, but on the other hand, the donor country is obliged to take into account the conditions and situation of the country that is being given. So there's no way to translate a simple pattern and a financing model, e.g. NGOs from France or from Britain to Poland, because we are a different society, here are other needs in the field of NGOs and the development of Polish society. There was a point that we're building something national again, and it's horrible. Nothing, I think that the President would help me answer, because it was for the governments that institutions such as the National Centre for Film Culture were created - not for ours, for the previous - the National Centre for Culture, the National Theatre - together, we will no longer say who - the National Stadium, the National Heritage Institute, the National Institute of Fryderyk Chopin. You want us to take it all down because it's national? I'm talking about this because our level of political discussion on this subject... It's kind of weird when we have to explain that we're setting up an institution called a national institution. A statement on the public benefit council. I'm just gonna tell you because it's kind of a whispering thing... So far, there has actually been a public benefit council. There were representatives of NGOs and local authorities. And who nominated these people? Who picked them? I can tell you: in the first phase, when the first team was elected, I was one of the two people who nominated, but formally later it was the Minister's nominations. I don't even remember who the minister was back then. The selection procedures for these bodies are always parademocratic or quasi-democratic, so their representative mandate is always with a question mark. We cannot claim that this is something that is fully democratic, fully bottom-up, etc. This is always a question of different types of tenders. This is the nature of civil society, and this is the nature of this spontaneous, bottom-up civil element, and this must simply be accepted. But this cannot be countered by other new solutions that do not destroy such structures and such opportunities for consultation or participation of non-governmental organisations. Mr Kurzepa spoke about clientelism. I already mentioned it. Yeah, unfortunately, that's the problem we've been dealing with many times. I hope that it will be minimized by this reform, which, with good will, we propose to Poles for the development of Polish civil society, increasing opportunities and improving the working conditions of Polish NGOs. One last remark to Mrs Leszczyna. She's not here, but because she was... I don't know. I think she mixed up the threads here. She said something about throwing out a journalist. That's not true, what Mrs. Leszczyna said, the journalist wasn't fired. That's just what I wanted to correct. And I wanted to appeal again, although I don't know if it's a call in the wilderness, so that we can try to have a project that is a civic project, to think with a little more goodwill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's not a civic project. It's a PiS project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u706	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u707	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, you write that the more recent version of the bill was created after taking into account numerous votes of representatives of NGOs during both formal consultations and informal discussions on the occasion of more specific conferences in voivodships. I'd like to ask you: 1. What happened to the voice of the National Federation of NGOs? According to information obtained from the federation, 2/3 of the opinions and positions submitted in the consultation were not taken into account. These posts indicated that the establishment of the National Institute of Freedom is pointless and does not respond to the problems you have identified. 2. How did the support of non-governmental organisations for your project actually spread? In addition to the discretionary statement that the organisations want this project, do you have any results of representative research that would confirm this thesis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u708	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development. Civil society in Poland is not developing dynamically. There is still a lack of institutions that activate people and build social capital. Many of these institutions operate in other countries, including: to intergenerational dialogue and promoting inter-generational dialogues. Happy senior life. This is what I really miss about Poland. I agree with the drafters of the law that society is trying to activate itself through various types of projects which are temporary and unstable instead of permanent, long-term. The lack of predictability of funding makes it impossible for NGOs to plan actions that would allow for the implementation of appropriate civil society-building habits. The idea of volunteering also works poorly in Poland - we do not have such a tradition, although I hope that under the educational laws that promote volunteering in schools, interest in this form of action will increase. The quality of cooperation between NGOs and local authorities has so far been far too low. That's supposed to change the bill. In Poland there was also a lack of information about NGOs and civil society, but above all about the activities of this sector. The main objective of the proposed law is the establishment of a National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development, which is to support the development of citizens' initiatives in Poland. Thanks to the new institution - in my opinion - it can increase social activity, promote volunteering and can also be properly shaped civil attitudes in which the idea of solidarity will dominate. I am convinced that the proposed law can equalise opportunities and eliminate the existing fragmentation of non-governmental organisations and, above all, inequalities in access to public funds. The creation of an individual that will deal solely with the implementation of programmes to promote social activity is extremely important. Part of the remit of the new institution is to take over from the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which is a step in the right direction. A large area of civil society issues does not always coincide with the competence of the competent minister. In Poland, a comprehensive system of support for the development of social initiatives is needed, and this law will make it possible to cooperate partnerly between ministries. They will also be taken into account in the development of civil society development programmes and in the experience of individual ministries. It is also worth noting that the entry into force of the Act will not result in the centralization of the support system for NGOs in Poland. In this context, I am pleased that the project takes into account the voices of representatives of NGOs. Circle of Free and Solidarni asks for further proceedings of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u709	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law on amending the Code of Offences Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland (print No 1652). I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u710	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, I have the honour to present to the High House a proposal to amend the Code of Offences. The aim of the proposed amendment is to provide the public with easier and more effective access to telephone emergency numbers, in particular to 112, but also to others such as 984, 985, 986, 997, 998 and 999, by introducing a clear ban on the unjustified blocking of these numbers, in particular the disconnecting of calls before the operator takes action. Polish law provides for penalties for those who falsely notify emergency services about tragic events that did not actually take place. Since the introduction into the Criminal Code of the provision of Article. Article 224a and amendment of the Article 66 The Code of Offences is false notification of emergency threats requiring the activities of security, public policy or health authorities. According to Art. 224a of the Penal Code, who, knowing that there is no threat, announces an incident that threatens the lives or health of many persons, property of considerable size, and consequently causes the operation of an institution of public interest or a competent authority, is punishable by imprisonment from 6 months to 8 years. The offence is to mislead the emergency services with the intention of causing unnecessary action. This is the case with Art. 66 offenses. While the legislator predicted a criminal response to lyingly reporting tragic events, he left out cases of blocking emergency numbers by simply making calls. However, blocking emergency numbers is an important, really dangerous problem for us. Here are some examples of life and statistics. In Nowy Tomyśl, a man within 6 hours dialed 112 and 997 numbers 67 times, disorganizing the work of the NYPD and the fire department. 17-year-old resident of Głucho3az in Opole region performed over 5 thousand. calls to the emergency phone numbers of the fire department and emergency services. The cell phone call billing from which the call was made had 55 pages. A citizen of Skarżyska-Kamienna disorganized the work of rescue services and put people in danger, connecting with number 112 from several to several hundred times a day. In total, he called the emergency call center number 870 times. Ełku's apartment blocked the police phone line by calling 997 over 200 times a day. At present, persons blocking alarm numbers may be liable under Article. 160 of the Penal Code, i.e. for human exposure to a direct risk of loss of life or serious injury to health - that was the case for the citizen of Skarżyska-Kamienna - or to be responsible for committing an offence as a result of the qualification of an act under Article. 66 The Code of Misdemeanors - this was the case with Ełku. It should not be so that the same act may be subject to sanctions under different rules. Art. 66 The Code of Offences only violates the act of the perpetrator who misleads an institution or an authority with false information. High Izbo! The amendment of the Code of Offences proposed by your President complements the current Article. 66 § 1 Code of Offences: Whoever intentionally, without justification, will block the telephone emergency number, obstructing or preventing the proper functioning of the emergency notification system, will be subject to detention, restriction of liberty or fine up to PLN 1500. The new regulation will make it possible to combat harmful behaviour, regardless of the motives that drive the perpetrator to act. The provision objectivees the grounds of responsibility which will be updated only if the emergency notification system is impeded or prevented from functioning properly. The justification for the draft in print No 1652 refers to the data from the "Report on the functioning of the emergency notification system' in 2015 and the "Report on the functioning of the emergency notification system' in 2016. These reports were prepared by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. In 2016, approximately 19.5 million notifications were registered in emergency call centres, of which more than 9 million were false, malicious or unfounded. Over 6.5 million callers canceled the connection before the operator receives them, representing more than 34% of all notifications. If we add false, malicious, or unfounded reports that were over 46% to canceled applications, what do we have left? We have less than 20% of the legitimate applications that have been taken into account by operators. The scale of dialing alarm numbers that are not intended for them is not only appalling, it is primarily dangerous. A summary of the data from the 2015 report on the operation of the emergency notification system with the 2016 report also shows that the percentage of false, malicious or unfounded notifications per year has increased by 1.5%. Due to malice, lack of imagination and lack of empathy, some people have a negative impact on the functioning of the emergency notification system. Calling without need and justification blocks the telephone line for a person who may need immediate help right now. The President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, sent the bill to the Sejm not only to punish for the thoughtlessness and lack of imagination of the person blocking the alarm numbers. The President hopes that the work on the bill will raise awareness of the importance of the emergency notification system and how important it is for this system to function properly. The inability to call 112 is an additional threat to the safety of those in need of immediate assistance. I hope that the amendment presented by your President will increase security and make it easier for those who watch over it. Last year, an information campaign was launched to make the public aware that 112 was only used to save lives and health. When I ask the High House to accept the President's proposal, I will remind you of one of the slogans of this action: Remember! Calling 911 without need and justification, you're blocking a telephone line for a person who may need immediate assistance right now and cannot connect with the operator. Consider: You, too, may need help someday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u711	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u712	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on amending the Code of Offences Act. This project, as the Minister has already emphasised here, is intended to provide easier and more effective access to emergency numbers. Let me remind you that 112 is a uniform number throughout the European Union, 984 is a river ambulance, 985 - sea and mountain, 986 - city guard, 997 - Police, 998 - State Fire Department and 999 - emergency services. It is necessary to prohibit the blocking of these numbers and in particular the cancellation of the call before the operator takes action. It turns out that reports from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration from 2015 and 2016 show that each year there are over 9 million so-called. false, malicious, unfounded reports. In proportion to all these notifications, this is 46%. Calling without need and justification blocks the telephone line to the person who may need this help the most at the moment. The proposed amendment complements the current Article. 66 § 1 of the Code of Offences, except that it is necessary to note that in the proposed draft a fine risk is only up to 150 PLN. [[1500 PLN.]] I'm sorry, of course 1500 PLN, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In contrast, in the article. Paragraph 24 1 Code of Offences This fine may be within the limits, in sizes of between 20 and 5 thousand. zł, unless the law provides otherwise. This amendment will undoubtedly improve the availability of an alert service and reduce the response time of emergency services to notifications, thereby improving the security of citizens. The project was consulted with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Vacatio legis is 30 days old. The Law and Justice Club supports this legislative initiative by the President of the Republic of Poland. I propose that the project be directed to further work in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u713	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u714	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position on the draft law amending the Code of Offences Act. The proposal complements the current Article. 66 § 1 Code of Offences for a new category of behaviour consisting of deliberate and unjustified blocking of emergency numbers which hinder or prevent the proper functioning of the emergency notification system. If we look at the fact that over two decades have passed since the introduction of 112, it may seem that many people still do not know what these numbers are for and what they are for. Many connections are still completely unfounded. Almost 50% of all calls are false, malicious, or unfounded. Unfortunately, this can cause any one of us to suffer, which is why the behaviour of consciously blocking an alarm number is a phenomenon that certainly deserves a negative assessment. The State should prevent such behaviour, prevent those who do not require assistance from making a telephone call under the emergency notification system for those in need of such assistance, and therefore the introduction of criminal liability for conduct that prevents the effective functioning of the emergency notification system should be considered justified. Let us remember, however, that without proper education in the proper use of all emergency numbers, we will not eliminate unjustified and false notifications, which is why these activities should go two ways. High Izbo! The aim of the project is certainly correct, but it certainly requires what is also indicated in the comments that have been received in the project, clarification as to the characteristics of the action in particular. Therefore, as a Civic Platform, we are in favour of directing the project to further work in order to achieve the best possible solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u715	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskoła, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u716	Dear Marshal, Minister! This is undoubtedly the best project we're doing today. Words of appreciation to the President. It would seem to be such a slight change, but it is indeed extremely important from a statistical point of view. I had the pleasure, perhaps even the pleasure of reading the justification. We find out that 45% of the applications are unfounded or false. I'll admit, I was hit by a rock. Of course, I think they're people who have at least some mental issues. That will be my point. Of course, the current laws provide for criminal consequences for a falsely alerting person of a non-existent emergency notification system. The project involves extending the actions to make the call itself, which blocks the emergency number. Here is the issue of these two aspects: deliberate and unfounded. Indeed, regulation makes it possible to combat the harmful behaviour of people who abuse emergency numbers, this is the basis for responsibility here. Of course, it is about making the emergency notification system difficult or impossible to function properly. Of course, the Kukiz Club fully supports it. As a parliamentary club, we ask that the project proceed to further proceding, because this is just the first reading. On the other hand, we also have some problems, because this project may actually need to be improved in committee. Criminal liability is only in the case of imputation of guilt, i.e. guilt is when, please pay attention, as in the Penal Code, when it is fully intentional. Here are the reasons that will serve it. Once again, I'm going back to the situation or to the description of the situation. If someone's making 670 calls or something to 112, I don't suspect they're mentally sound. Moreover, there is no distinction between intentional and unfounded. How will this be defined? It may happen that it will be discretionary, but of course that doesn't change our position. Therefore, of course, thanking you for the project, we will be in favour of further proceding it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u717	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u718	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Code of Offences Act. The contested bill introduces a new category of criminal behaviour, qualified as a violation, consisting of deliberate blocking of the telephone emergency number without justification, obstructing or preventing the proper functioning of the emergency notification system. I am very pleased that, from the Minister's mouth, it has been said that criminality alone will not lead to this goal, but by the way, education is very important not to use these emergency phone numbers so as not to use them. Of course, you can read here the opinions that have been attached to the draft and, in particular, the opinion of the prosecution general, point to a number of shortcomings related to the mere identification of the marks of the proposed offence, but I hope that this will be clarified during the work in committee. Hence the Poselski Club The modern proposal is to refer this project to further work in the emergency committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u719	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u720	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Code of Offences Act, contained in the sejm print No. 1652. As has already been said, this initiative should be fully welcomed and even more so the objective to be achieved. The aim is to provide easier and more efficient access to telephone emergency numbers, including the 112 most popular one, although we still have a whole catalogue here, and to introduce a clear ban on unjustified blocking of these numbers, in particular to disconnect calls before the operator takes action. I think that this regulation goes in the right direction, contains a clear catalogue of sanctions, which is undoubtedly something that should be counted as a plus in this regulation. Nevertheless, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, which I represent, I would like to draw attention to certain aspects on this occasion. The first aspect was already indicated by one of the previous speakers. This is about clarification, because very often, which has already happened, we are dealing with various causes that cause such, not other behaviors by people who block alarm phones. Here the legislator must have some wisdom and sensitivity; he must pay attention not to measuring them all with one measure. This is one element that I would like to draw attention to, and the other is also the issue that was signalled by the Minister, but I think that we should perhaps still, at the legislative stage, draw attention to it, clarify it. It is about taking parallel preventive, educational, awareness-raising actions, on the one hand addressed to the youngest ones we are able to - and this happens in many schools - to realise the importance, but also some way of using these numbers, and on the other hand to the older community, because very often we do not realize as a society the effects of behaviors sometimes caused by ordinary recklessness. I think that these two issues would complete the overall nature of this regulation and would actually allow for the benefit of all those situations that require rapid response, to prepare good over the division of regulation. We're a club for work. PSL ready. I think we will - because we are in favour of directing the project to further work - also actively involve in this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u721	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u722	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For the purpose of the proposed amendment of the Law of 20 May 1971, the Code of Offences (Journal of Laws). U. z 2015 poz. 1094, late. zm.), hereinafter referred to as the Code of Offences, is to provide the public with easier and more effective access to telephone emergency numbers: 112, 984, 985, 986, 997, 998 and 999 by introducing a clear ban on unjustified blocking of these numbers, in particular by disconnecting the call before the operator takes action. The designer described the execution operation as blocking the telephone alarm number which is intended to lead to difficulties or prevent the system from functioning properly. Questions. 1. In the opinion of the designer, a one-off telephone call, which will not seek assistance under the emergency notification system, should also be eligible as blocking a telephone emergency number that hinders the proper functioning of the emergency notification system, as one telephone line will already be occupied as a result of such a call, and at least one person may have problems making a call? 2. Should the designer be punished as a misdemeanor? 3. Does the designer recognise the danger of non-compliance with the proposed prohibited act. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 constitution in the absence of a precise definition of the Circle of Punishment? Because the designer, as a condition of criminality, pointed out that the blocking of the telephone alarm number was to occur without justification. This is a vague concept which may give rise to serious difficulties in interpreting the marks of the proposed offence. Moreover, the designer did not even state in the justification the criteria and circumstances on which to assess whether the connection to the telephone emergency number was or was not justified. However, this is a key mark to determine not only the circle of criminal acts but also the unlawful conduct of a potential perpetrator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u723	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Intentional blocking of emergency numbers is reprehensible and harmful behaviour. The law on equal terms with malicious blocking puts the phones unwarranted. The question is whether the penalisation of this behaviour in practice will not prove to be a legal abstraction, giving a large scope for interpretation. We all know of situations when people called an ambulance to a sick person, and it turned out that this was not an urgent enough case, so they were charged with high charges. It was also the case that after such a visit to the ambulance, which did not state a serious condition, the person died. So what is the limit of this unreasonableness, and who will judge it? When calling 911, the notifier must provide all details of the incident and his/her data. It is then switched to the appropriate unit, e.g. an ambulance or a police station where he has to give the whole description of the incident and his data again. Only then does the intervention take place. Is it malice or foolishness, and for how many years should the person who created such a system be condemned?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u724	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the presidential draft law amending the Code of Offences Act, contained in print No. 1652, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. We proceed to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Labour Code Act and some other laws (print No 1653). I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u725	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, I have the honour to present to the High House a proposal to amend the Labour Code and some other laws. According to Art. 24 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is under the protection of the Republic of Poland and the State supervises the conditions of the work. The system principle expressed in this provision, which places work under the protection of the Republic of Poland, is a legal standard addressed to the authorities of the State, in particular to the legislator. This means that the State has an obligation to protect workers as a weaker party to the employment relationship. The solutions proposed in the draft law also serve to implement the principle of social justice contained in the article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, understood as seeking balance in social relations and fair, fair balance of interests in individual entities. They shall be without prejudice to the resulting Article. 20 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is a principle of dialogue and cooperation between social partners, expressed by the autonomy of employees and employers in shaping the actual and legal relations related to work. Verification of the situation of some employees applying to the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland indicates that there are relatively numerous cases of irregularities and abuses resulting in the victimisation of workers. This legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland aims to improve the regulation in a way that does not protect the interests of employees - either because of the possibility of abuse of certain provisions, or because of the lack of standards governing the situations in question. The bill amends the provisions of the Law of 26 June 1974. The Labour Code, the Act of 17 November 1964. The Civil Procedure Code and the Act of 9 July 2003 on the Employment of Temporary Workers. The amendments introduced in the Labour Code concern, first, the creation of an open catalogue of grounds for discrimination. At present, discrimination constitutes only a disadvantage for a worker because of a personal characteristic or a non-work-related property, for example, mentioned in the article. 18 § 1 of the Labour Code, either because of temporary or indefinite employment or full or part-time employment. However, there is no discrimination against inequality arising from reasons other than those considered discriminatory. This results in an unjustified differentiation of the legal situation of persons to whom the employer has infringed the prohibition of equal treatment in employment. Secondly, special protection against dismissal of workers - other members of the immediate family, who benefit from maternity leave or parental leave, and the granting of rights similar to those granted to workers and workers - to the parents of the child who benefit from those leave. Thirdly, the possibility, in the case of mobbing, of seeking compensation from the employer also in cases where the employee did not terminate the employment relationship, but suffered a specific injury as a result of the mobbing measures applied to him. Fourthly, an extension of the deadline to apply to the employer for the correction of the work certificate and a request for the correction of the work certificate to the labour court from 7 to 14 days. Fifthly, the addition of a regulation which clearly implies the right of an employee to apply for a work certificate if the employer fails to give him a work certificate, with a claim for the employer's obligation to issue that certificate to the labour court. Sixth, introducing the possibility for a court to issue a decision replacing a work certificate in the event of unsuccessful enforcement of a decision requiring the employer to issue a work certificate, to cease the employer's activity or to have other reasons preventing the employer from giving a job. Seventhly, tightening the code regulation on employer responsibility for not giving a worker a work certificate. And after eight o'clock, adjusting the wording of the provision on limitation of employment claims to judicial case law. In addition, amendments have been made to the Code of Civil Procedure, which concerns the introduction of transversal property in the execution of non-monetary benefits in the field of labour law. The amendments introduced by the Act of 9 July 2003 on the employment of temporary workers introduce a solution similar to that proposed in the Labour Code concerning the possibility for the court to issue a decision replacing the work certificate. High Izbo! The impulse to present with a draft law containing solutions to increase the protection of employees is the conclusions resulting from matters affecting the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. Verification of the situation of certain workers applying for legal aid shows that there are relatively numerous cases of irregularities and abuses resulting in the victimisation of workers. They are most often the result of a specific provision not providing sufficient protection or regulation to workers. It is therefore necessary to introduce solutions to extend the protection of workers' rights. This is in line with the expectations of workers who often experience the consequences of the employer's failure to fulfil their basic obligations under labour law not only at a given time and for the employer, but also in the distant future in different areas of life. Here, a remarkable example is the failure of the employer to issue a work certificate. The absence of this document not only hinders further employment but also constitutes an important obstacle to obtaining benefits for unemployed people or to applying for pension rights. It should be stressed that although the proposed changes strengthen the protection of workers, they are also neutral for employers - they do not impose new obligations or entail additional costs. I would also like to inform you that this project was assessed by the Social Dialogue Council and was also consulted with the Ministry of Labour at the stage of the design of the project. So, on behalf of the President, I ask that we continue to work on this project in committee to make life easier for the workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u726	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Barbara Bartus will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u727	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws contained in print No 1653. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law amending the Labour Code Act aims to, as the Minister has said here in general, to make changes that make it easier for workers to exercise their workers' rights. The proposed law introduces amendments which provide for a prohibition of discrimination in employment and an order for equal treatment in employment in relation to the establishment and termination of employment relationships, employment conditions, promotion and access to training to improve professional qualifications, as well as in matters relating to the protection of persons exercising parental rights, mobbing, issuing work certificates and limitation of employment claims. The solutions proposed in the bill are intended to implement the principle of social justice contained in the article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, understood as the pursuit of balance in social relations and fair balancing of interests of individual entities. They shall be without prejudice to the resulting Article. 20 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is a principle of dialogue and cooperation between social partners, expressed by the autonomy of employees and employers in shaping the actual and legal relations related to work. Without a doubt, it is possible to ensure effective protection of workers' rights through a well-functioning legal system that protects the interests of workers. The changing social and economic realities and the growing threats to fundamental labour rights make it necessary to constantly update labour law standards. This legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland aims to improve the regulation, because in the current situation there is insufficient protection of the interests of employees, whether because of the possibility of abuse of certain regulations or because of the lack of standards governing the situations in question. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, with the President's representative, I would like to stress that although the proposed changes strengthen the protection of workers, they do not impose new obligations on employers and do not impose new, additional costs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of my Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this proposal be directed to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u728	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u729	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project concerns changes in the Labour Code. And rightly so, changes should be made to the Labour Code, because the one that is in force today was adopted in 1974 and since then much has changed in the labour market. Therefore, the reform of the Labour Code is absolutely justified. What are the changes proposed in the President's Act? The amendments concern equal treatment, protection of persons exercising parental rights, mobbing, issuing work certificates and limitation periods for work claims. The proposal changes nine articles, but the most important thing in my opinion is a change that gives the same rights to all those taking maternity leave. In special cases they are members of the immediate family of the child, but not the mother and not the father, so they should have the same protection in the Labour Code as the rights of the employee - the mother or the employee - the father on maternity leave. This amendment removes the disadvantage of the current regulation in this respect and there is no doubt about it. The second amendment concerns the time for the staff member to request the correction of the work certificate, from 7 days to 14. And rightly so, however, I wonder why not amend the provision on appeal to the court of employment for disciplinary dismissal. There's also seven days, the offer was that there'd be 14 of them. But I think it's also clear that despite the positive opinion of the government, because the bill was submitted by me, PiS frozen it in committee. These are two of the nine changes that are needed, which need to be introduced as soon as possible, and I have no doubt about that. On the other hand, the remaining amendments were very critically assessed by the Supreme Court as unnecessary, not bringing new normative content, faultyly constructed, contrary to civil proceedings and those which will not have practical significance in the application of the law. The entire draft law of the Supreme Court considers fragmentary. So the question is, what's going on, because it's not really about making a change, because it's about making an appearance. For example, in the rules on discrimination and equal treatment, it is proposed to delete the words "and'. The applicant refers to the need for equal treatment of all employees and suggests that this provision causes interpretation errors that harm workers. However, the Supreme Court clearly believes that today's wording meets the expectations of the President and is thus interpreted. Then why change it? Why, then, does this change serve? It's a secret. Unless the President was gonna say clearly that he didn't agree to discrimination and mobbing in public administration. Let me remind you that public administration is the largest employer in Poland, employing about 450,000. employees, and in fact since the change of government staff exchange on Misiewicz is ongoing. Where workers called Misiewicz appear, all the rest of them are rebelling, being thrown away, pushed back to the corners. That is where the mobbing occurs, as confirmed by the labour courts' judgments in this area. But are you sure that's what the president was after? I'm having second thoughts here, too. I will remind you that in the opinion of the Supreme Court, the proposed changes are unnecessary and will not change the interpretation of the rule in any way, so this is a big mystery to me. Since there are two provisions in this law that should be introduced in the assessment of the Civic Platform Club, we will, of course, work on this project in the committee, hoping that we will also find the answer to the question of what is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u730	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Chrobak will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u731	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law makes changes to the benefit of workers, which is very important, ensuring better protection of their rights, and eliminates certain procedural obstacles resulting from the shortcomings of the Labour Code, in particular as regards the protection of workers in the case of maternity leave and mobbing. The proposed law extends the number of persons who benefit from the salary for the period of unpaid maternity leave - in addition to their mother and father, they may also be a member of the immediate family who benefits from maternity leave. At present, the person who suffers from mobbing, and the effects most often are mental problems, is exposed to additional stress, because, as a rule, he must be fired from work. This law amends and allows claims to be made during the duration of the employment relationship. The regulations on the obligation to issue work certificates will also prevent situations where the employer does not want or cannot issue a work certificate. The worker often stays in a situation where there is no employment in the previous establishment, and by failing to comply with the formalities he cannot take up new employment. This is the situation we are currently dealing with in the case of Praktiker staff - they do not receive remuneration and do not have work certificates. The amendment makes the worker entitled to a claim for an employer's obligation to issue a work certificate and the obligation is decided by the court. A positive change is also the extension of the deadline for correcting the work certificate from 7 to 14 days. Taking these provisions into account, Kukiz15 will support further work on the proposed project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u732	Thank you very much, Member. Now, on behalf of the Modern Club, you won't be performing on Rosa's behalf because she presented her speech in writing. Like Mr Jarubas on behalf of the PSL Club. And like Mr Mirror... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Oh, you are, aren't you? [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]] That's too bad. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u733	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the work is subject to special protection and the State is obliged to supervise the conditions of the work. The country is particularly protected by the so-called. the weaker side of the employment relationship - the employee. State authorities are obliged to issue legislation that protects workers in their legal employment relationships. This draft law proposes changes that aim to improve regulation and to eliminate interpretation differences in the content of the legislation. Among other things, the projecters, in view of the possibility for workers to use maternity, parental leave - other members of the immediate family want to take special care of this group of workers against termination of employment, and to grant them the same rights as workers and workers - to parents who raise children. I find this regulation most appropriate. An earlier amendment of the Labour Code introduced four specific situations, where maternity or parental leave can be used by an employee - another member of the immediate family. But in addition to this possibility, there were no regulations to protect this type of worker. In my view, the proposed change will improve the level of protection of this group of workers and align the rights of the employee - another member of the immediate family with the rights of the employee - the father. The projectors also want to extend the time during which the employee may apply to the employer for the correction of the work certificate and the time when the request for the rectification of the work certificate to the labour court, from 7 to 14 days. I find this change appropriate. The lack of recognition within 7 days of irregularities in the issued work certificate results in a lack of legal remedy. It is important to add a provision which entitles an employee to apply to the labour court with a claim where the employer does not issue a work certificate to the worker. This is an important provision from the point of view of the employee's interests. No work certificate not only makes it difficult to find new employment, but it is also an important obstacle to obtaining unemployment benefits. In addition, it is an obstacle to registration as an unemployed person or a job seeker and makes it difficult to apply for pension benefits. The extension of the scope of protection of workers' rights meets the expectations of workers. In addition, I would like to stress that the changes made do not impose additional obligations on employers in any way. I am also convinced that the amendments proposed in the bill will help to eliminate the sense of social injustice. The regulations introduced are mainly a clarification of the obligations arising from the labour law to which the employer is obliged to comply. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u734	Thank you very much. Four Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, is the first to ask a question. There's no envoy. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u735	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank the President for this initiative. Sometimes I get information and complaints about discrimination and mobbing in my work environment. It happens that personal dramas are the result of such actions, e.g. miscarriages and depression. I would like to ask whether the proposal takes into account the fact that an employee's complaint and the investigation of the removal of the effects of illegal activities of the employer may cause further adverse effects on the worker. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u736	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u737	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Among the many problems faced by workers are problems related to the certificate of work, namely the possible correction, in general, of its enforcement. Although the very good situation on the labour market, which we now have thanks to good governments, causes that there are fewer problems, but there are still problems. Currently, after receiving a work certificate, a worker may request a correction of his work certificate, he shall have 7 days to apply to the employer for such an application, and if the employer fails to take account of his request, he may apply to the labour court. Practice shows that these 7 days of speaking to an employer is sometimes too short. Overcoming this deadline takes away the possibility of legal requests for correction, and therefore the President's proposal to extend this time to 14 days meets the expectations of the employees. The second equally important amendment seems to give the worker the opportunity to ask the employer to issue a work certificate, as cases of failure to issue a certificate [[♪ The bell ♪]] they are very troublesome and cause a fired employee a lot of trouble. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u738	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u739	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have often criticized the frequent changes to the rules, especially the frequent changes to the codes, and I start by saying that I am against it. But I am very pleased with the President's initiative, because the President is probably responding to the demand of hundreds of workers who see that their rights are not properly protected, and I also spoke about this in my club speech. But I have a question for you from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, because I know that the codification committee is working on a comprehensive revision of the Labour Code. And I wanted to say, how advanced are these jobs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u740	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Minister of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u741	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also wanted to thank the President for his initiative, the Minister, on behalf of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. These are good proposals that strengthen the position of the employee, which in many cases is worse for the employer. These changes are good, our resort will support them during committee work. Especially important are issues related to the fact that we give workers more opportunities to claim. The resolution of the Social Dialogue Council is also important. Although it is not clear, but it is important that the Council has spoken on this issue, the team that prepared a position on this resolution - part of the proposal is accepted, as regards some of the differences of opinion. I do not share the view of the Supreme Court in all cases - in some cases the court criticises the government project - because it is easy to say that if it were good in Polish courts when it comes to labour matters, we would not have so many problems, and unfortunately this problem in labour courts is one of the least represented on the part of employees and here changes are important to enable employees to investigate various issues relating to claims. Madam President Barbara Bartus' question about the work of the codification committee. The codification committee is working, consisting of representatives, government experts, from the social side, and there are two components that work: the committee, the team working on the individual labour code and the second team working on the collective labour relationship. We hope that this period of 18 months, which we have appointed for the committee, will be the moment when we will be able to see the beauty, and that we will be able to adopt solutions in this term of office of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u742	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Andrzej Dera, Minister of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u743	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the President, I would like to thank the representatives of all the clubs for their warm acceptance of this draft amendment to the Labour Code and to dispel a few doubts as to whether to answer a few questions, because the representative of the Civic Platform Club asked what was going on with you in this project. So I answer that the idea is that all employees in Poland should be treated equally, so that there are no such cases of unequal treatment, which result from certain interpretations or shortcomings of statutory provisions. The courts treat seasonal workers differently than permanent workers, and that is already discrimination, and that is so obvious. This project is a prostration -- really, believe me -- a lot of complaints, where employees wrote about how they were treated unevenly. Because why can someone who is employed go to court in their place of residence and fight for their employees' rights, and a seasonal worker has to go to court in the place where he worked? For those people who make little money, travel and demand their own money are very difficult. They're the ones who pointed out it shouldn't be like this. We've been analyzing this at the President's Chancellery, and we've actually come up with these things in this analysis. That's where the project's coming from. There's no political subtext here, please don't... If someone wants to politically consider the Labour Code, they'll always find what was going on in those governments. These are individual cases that are not governed by the law, which people decide to make clear here. We, on the other hand, amend the law so that all who are subject to the Labour Code are treated equally. A number of cases - here too Members have pointed out - have concerned the very difficult situation of workers who, for various reasons, could not obtain a work certificate. These were people's dramas that describe who's going to replace it, I don't have this testimony, I can't get that document out today. Hence, it is a proposal that the court should issue it in this way, giving the possibility at all to obtain a basic document, which is not only important in terms of future work, but is also fundamental in terms of further social benefits, pensions, other things. Without this document, it is difficult to prove later in the ZUS that you have worked, and these situations actually occur, are life-like. These people wrote, what do we have, Mr. President, to do? Our bet's been wiped out, he's gone, there's no one to turn to, there's no documents - things happen in life. It was just about helping these people. We were really looking, like - because this is a new construction - what to do with these people. Contrary to appearances, with the changing labour market, there are more and more people, unfortunately there are more and more such cases. This was about finding a path that was honest, solid, based on a court that has the ability to examine documents at all. Who would do that? This is our idea, but we really are ready to have a broad discussion during committee work. I may reply in detail during the work of the committee, but I can only say that the provision that we have introduced here is a pity, it is as if it is an opportunity under the Labour Code. Of course, then such a person may apply for compensation on a normal basis, because there are other issues already related to another procedure. So, once again, I would like to thank the Minister, the staff of the Ministry, for their good cooperation in the preparation of this project. I think that further work in Parliament, the adoption of this draft amendment to the Labour Code will really serve the workers and once again as people who create the law, improve this right, we will have the satisfaction that something good has been done for the workers. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u744	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u745	The position of the club of the Polish People's Party vis-à-vis the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Labour Code Act and some other laws. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are looking closely at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland to improve the conditions for the protection of workers. The proposed project aims to introduce changes to make it easier for workers to exercise their employee rights related to equal treatment of workers, protection of those exercising parental rights, mobbing, the issue of work certificates and the limitation period for employment claims. Any project that will clarify the rules and thus protect workers from different forms of discrimination is a step in the right direction. We are of the opinion that the catalogue of grounds for discrimination against workers should be open. In the previous term of the Sejm, it was the PSL which was responsible for social policy. We are pleased that presidential initiatives are a continuation of ours, so we will support all forms of protection for workers and their families benefiting from parental benefits proposed by all political communities. We have a similar position when it comes to protecting employees from mobbing. The amendments proposed in the Act also deal with formal issues. The aim is to extend the deadline for correcting the work certificate when necessary to 2 weeks and to extend the possibility of requesting assistance from the labour court. We're assessing this as a step in the right direction. We will vote in favour of referring the bill to further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u746	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position regarding the draft law on the amendment of the Labour Code Act and some other laws presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. The project contains a number of changes, in the intention of the author to protect against discrimination at work, to facilitate workers' redress of certain claims, in particular as regards compensation for damage caused by mobbing and the issuance and correction of a work certificate, as well as to extend the catalogue of persons benefiting from the special conditions of labour law for mothers and fathers during the period of maternity allowance for the closest members of their families if they have taken over the role of parents, which is a formal expression of their benefit from maternity allowance. The use of maternity allowance by a member of the immediate family as a substitute for a mother or father is a right held in a narrow catalogue of very special and difficult, but fortunately also not a very common situation: death, inability to live alone or long-term hospitalisation preventing the child from being taken care of or abandoned by the mother. In these cases the parent's duties are taken over by someone in the immediate family: parents or siblings of the child's parents. Polish law recognises the burden of the obligation they assume and entitles them in these situations to benefit from maternity benefits on the same rights as the mother of the child would have. Until now, however, this has been incomplete and inconsistent, because they did not enjoy the same protection and powers under the Labour Code as the parents of the child. The proposed regulation corrects this situation and deserves full support in this respect. Similarly, as regards the extension of the period during which the worker may apply for correction in the work certificate, from 7 to 14 days is a reasonable change. Unfortunately, the whole of the bill submitted is not prepared in a similar way. You can even go to the conclusion that it is evidence of some sloppyness or negligence in the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that the experience of applicants for legal assistance organised by the NAP was an inspiration for its creation. If that is true, this is not a good indication of the qualifications of lawyers providing this assistance. In its opinion, the Supreme Court did not leave a dry thread, nor did it obtain the approval of the Council of Social Dialogue. With regard to the protection against discrimination at work, the proposed law does absolutely nothing, as it is limited to anything that does not change the action of the stylistic adjustment provisions. Similarly, the article on the possibility of withdrawing from the obligation under the Labour Code after the expiry of the limitation period is merely limited to re-recording what the limitation institution is and how it operates. As regards the establishment of an institution of a decision replacing the work certificate, the Supreme Court pointed out that the above amendments were unfounded in the absence of the possibility of obtaining the document from the employer, since the other provisions of the CC. and c.p.c. allow effective enforcement of these rights through other processes. In the absence of a work certificate, the worker may obtain equivalent from a determination point of view e.g. the right to leave or pension information e.g. with the ZUS, it can also search on its own for employee files, which are necessarily archived even if the employer ceases to operate. These acts are often carried out by the court in proceedings concerning these rights, e.g. as regards the amount of the pension. In the absence of a work certificate for some period, he asks the Social Security Office to provide information. The determination by the court in a separate non-trial procedure of the information necessary for the adoption of a decision replacing the work certificate is a costly, time-consuming procedure and will take place, and the applicant has failed to explain how this procedure would take place and on what sources to base it on, which could make it more effective than the previous actions. Due to valuable changes introduced by certain provisions of the Postelski Club Act The state-of-the-art proposal to refer the law to further work in committees to correct these errors.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u747	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed by the President of the Republic of Poland the draft law amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws, contained in print No. 1653, to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Information from the Council of Ministers about the situation of older people in Poland for 2015 (print No 1102) together with the position of the Committee on Senior Policy and the Committee on Social and Family Policy (print No 1263). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska, to present a report. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u748	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Information on the situation of older people in Poland for 2015 is a comprehensive document. I'll try to present the most important information. Polish society is currently facing challenges that arise from changes in the demographic structure of the population. This process is the result of three processes. Namely the lengthening of the average life expectancy. In 2015, the average life expectancy for men was 73 years and 6 months, while for women it was 81 years and 6 months. The second phenomenon is the low level of fertility, which is below the simple substitution of generations, or 1.34. And the third phenomenon is the migration of people, especially the migration of young people. At the end of 2015 almost 2,400 thousand stayed outside Poland. residents. At the end of 2015, the population was 38 400 000, of which people aged 60 were 8800 000, which is 22%. According to the demographic forecasts of the population of the CSO by 2050, if these trends are not inhibited, all indications are that the population of 60-year-olds and over will be over 40% the general public. In view of these demographic changes, social policy towards older people is one of the priorities of public action. It was implemented, among others. operated by the adoption of a law on older people. And this law imposed an obligation on public administration bodies, state organizational units and other organisations involved in shaping the situation of older people to monitor the situation of older people in Poland, which results in information about the situation of older people in Poland. This information for 2015 is a historical study. Why? Because it is the first government document on the situation, showing the situation of older people in Poland. All ministries, the Central Statistical Office, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the voivodships involved in the preparation of this document. The document was also supplemented by the results of studies on the situation of older people, which were carried out by CBOS in agreement with the Ministry. These studies were carried out at the turn of July and August ub. What is the structure of the document? The first part of the document presents information on the socio-economic situation of older people in Poland, in particular on the demographic, economic, family, health, labour market situation, availability and level of social services, including caring and specialist care services, and various activities, including social, civic, educational, cultural and sporting activities. The second part of the study presents information on the state of implementation of social policy towards older people in Poland by individual departments and at regional level, i.e. in individual voivodships. The third part of the information presents the most important conclusions and recommendations on the recommended direction of social policy towards older people. I will briefly present some of the most important information on the situation of older people in Poland. As I said, people aged 60 and over at the end of 2015 accounted for more than 20%, exactly 22% of the population. What is still characteristic of the population of the elderly? First of all, it is characterised by the phenomenon of double ageing, i.e. in 2015, the number of people aged 80 and over was 1.5 million, representing 4% population. From 2026 onwards, a dynamic increase in the number of people aged 80 and over will begin, resulting in a very large group of people born between the end of World War II and the beginning of the 1960s. We're talking twice as many, which is about 3.4 million. The second feature is the feminization of old age. In the elderly population, the majority are women, i.e. 59% That's 142 women out of 100 men. The third feature is the singularisation of old age, which is reflected in the high proportion of older people running single-person households. In 2015, the number of single-person households run by older people was more than 1.5 million, i.e. 37%. At the same time, it should be stressed that a group of older people is one of the most disparate groups in society. There is no other so diverse social group, because the situation of people aged 60 and others aged 80 or 100 is different. Today in Poland we have over 4700 hundred-year-olds. Moreover, older people from different age groups differ due to past experience, place of residence, educational level, health status, lifestyle or material situation. Over 2/3 of the elderly, or 65% , lives in cities. In the village there are 35% of the elderly. However, it should be noted that rural communities have stronger social ties than cities and older people can rely more on local community support. In the characteristics of the overall ageing process, it is also important to pay attention to regional diversity. Currently the largest share of older people in the population is recorded in Łódź, Świętokrzyskie and Śląskie voivodships. The youngest voivodship is warmińsko-mazurskie, podkarpackie, pomorskie, wielkopolskie and lubuskie voivodship. What was the material situation of the elderly? The average disposable income per person in households with at least one person aged 60 and over in 2015 was PLN 1407.47 and was slightly higher, about PLN 40, than income in households without persons aged 60 and over. The main source of income for older people was pensions. In 2015, the average monthly pension paid by the Social Security Office amounted to PLN 2096.55. It was also regionally diverse, because the highest was in the Silesian Voivodeship - 2539.29 zł, and the lowest in the Podkarpackie Voivodship - 1843,37 zł. The second source of income for older people is invalidity pensions. In 2015, the average monthly disability pension amounted to PLN 1590.33. It should also be stressed that the average monthly expenditure per person in households resident by persons aged 60 years and over was PLN 1459.97 and was higher than in households which included only young people. However, it should be stressed that the structure of expenditure in older people's households is different from that in younger age groups, as in these households higher expenditure is on food, health, including, among others, health. medications. Turning to the health of the Polish older society, the occurrence of diseases or chronic illnesses was found in most older people, almost 89%. The most common diseases are hypertension, neck, back pain, degenerative diseases, coronary diseases or diabetes. In the population of older people at the end of 2014 almost 50% people aged 60 and over were biologically disabled. It should be added that the incidence of biological disability increases significantly after the age of 70. Among 70-year-olds, the proportion of people with disabilities was around 55%. , while among people aged 85 and over - about 77%. The independence of the elderly also grows with age. According to the 2015 reports of health care institutions, people aged 65 years and over have benefited from 85.5 million medical advice under outpatient health care, including with more than 50.5 million primary healthcare advice. 30 million medical advice was on specialized care, i.e. 26.4% advice and almost 5 million advice on dental advice, which represents 14% all the advice given. The average number of medical advice given in outpatient health care per capita in 2015 was 8.2, while among people aged 65 and over, this ratio was 14.3, i.e. 8.2 to 14.3. Selected data on older people activity. The dominant lifestyle of older people is passive style, only about 1/4 of seniors are active. The most popular among seniors are watching TV, going to church, seeing friends, visiting relatives, reading books, magazines, newspapers, listening to radio or music. This domination of passive forms of leisure activities indicates that older people generally have little active lifestyles, but the population, as I said, is not uniform. More active spending of time is fostered by younger age, better education, good health assessment, contentment with housing or living in the city. In this study CBOS is one of the most popular ways to spend time actively: walking, hiking, gardening, or plotting. The results of the social cohesion study show that older people are also characterised by low social activity. Of the population of 60+ only 19% declares taking up social work for other people, the local community or neighbours, and 16% participates formally in the activities of a group or religious community. Attention should be paid to the religious aspect which, due to the high sense of belonging to the Church or religious union, affects the degree of participation in the social life of the elderly. According to the CBOS survey, the majority of older people, 87.5% , declares participation in religious practices. As regards educational activity, older people are characterised by low educational activity, which is measured by participation in formal and non-formal education and informal learning. One of the educational forms introduced for the activation of older people are universities of the third century. In 2015, 520 UTW functioned and the number of listeners was around 100,000. If we refer to the entire population, even though we talk so much about UTW, even though it seems to be so many people, people at the age of 60 and more who participate in university activities are only about 1%. Another form of participation in the public life of older people is the municipal councils of seniors, which operate on the basis of Article. 5c Local Government Act. Under the law, local senior councils are to promote intergenerational solidarity and create the conditions to stimulate civic participation of older people in the local community. At the end of 2015, there were around 197 municipal senior councils, representing around 8% of the population. all municipalities. In view of the ageing process of the Polish society and the diagnosis of the situation of older people presented in the information, it is necessary to take long-term and systemic measures that shape the legal, economic and social conditions, in order to create a favourable situation for older people adapted to the changing social and economic needs as well as to care and health care in every period of age. On the basis of the information collected and provided, it must be stated that social policy towards older people is implemented by almost all departments and is one of the priorities of public policy. It is also implemented in the regions. This broad approach of social policy towards older people is based on the concept of coherent and sustainable development of the population, so that social policy objectives and tasks are adapted to the changing demographic situation and each age group has a specific place in the social policy of the state. As I said, the third part of the document is proposals and recommendations that relate to all areas of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u749	Thank you very much. The Sejm has determined that in the discussion... In fact, I'm sorry. Now I will ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present her position to the committee. Excuse me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u750	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present a report of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Senior Policy and the Committee on Social and Family Policy on the Government's document - Information on the situation of older people in Poland for 2015 and print No 1102. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Marshal sent the document to the Committee on Senior Policy and the Committee on Social and Family Policy for consideration on 2 December 2016. The joint committees discussed this document at their meeting on 7 February. and as a result of the work, they ask for its adoption. The information about the situation of older people in Poland for 2015 is the first document presenting the situation of seniors in Poland, as well as the first detailed description of the state of implementation of the senior policy prepared by the Council of Ministers, so it is boldly possible to claim that it is an historical study. The document presented is the implementation of the reporting obligation imposed on the Council of Ministers by the Act of 11 September 2015 on the Elders adopted by the Polish Sejm. The document describes activities carried out in the field of social policy towards older people in Poland at central and regional levels. It contains a presentation of activities carried out by individual ministries, with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy at the head, as well as a detailed description of the implementation of social policy towards the elderly in 16 voivodships of our country, with examples of good practices applied in each region. The government document "Information on the situation of older people in Poland for 2015" is an in-depth study made up of three parts. Part I entitled "The socio-economic situation of older people in Poland" describes the situation of seniors in 10 areas: demographic, economic, labour market, family situation, health, social activity, educational, cultural and recreational activity, equal treatment and anti-discrimination based on age, the situation of disabled elderly people and subjective assessment of the situation of seniors. Part II entitled Social policy towards older people in Poland presents a detailed description of the situation of seniors at central and regional levels. Activities carried out in the framework of the implementation of senior policy by individual ministries and social policy activities carried out at the level of 16 voivodships were presented here. The valuable element of the submission is the evaluation of the implementation of the Senior Policy in its third part, together with its conclusions and recommendations on the follow-up of the analysis of the data collected. They have been included in areas such as: the consequences of demographic change, the material situation of older people, housing policy, social assistance, older people's employment, the family and social situation of seniors, improvement of their health, health care area, older people's social, cultural, educational and sporting activities, equal treatment and discrimination based on age, and, finally, social policy towards older people at central and regional levels. All ministries, the Central Statistical Office, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Social Opinion Research Centre, voivodships and representatives of non-governmental organisations active in the field of social policy towards the elderly were involved in the development of this document. During the committee's work, their members pointed to the high quality of the document in the course of the discussion. On behalf of the joint committees, I would therefore like to thank Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska for preparing such extensive and detailed material showing the situation of the elderly in Poland in a multifaceted manner, through the prism of dozens of areas of their social, family, economic, health and professional functioning. Joint committees: the Committee on Senior Policy and the Committee on Social Policy and Families request the High Sejm to accept the printing document No 1102. On behalf of the joint committees, I also request that the report submitted in print No 1263 be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u751	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mrs Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will return to the floor. I understand you've already told me everything you want to say. No. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u752	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government document - Information on the situation of older people in Poland for 2015 and published in print No. 1102. Faced with demographic changes in Poland, social policy towards older people is one of the priorities of government action. Its implementation was operated by the Act on Elders adopted by the Sejm. This document entered into force on 1 January 2016 and imposed an obligation on public administrations to monitor the situation of senior citizens in Poland. The information presented by the Council of Ministers is the first submission on the situation of seniors in Poland, describing the state of implementation of senior policy at central and regional level. Mrs Beacie Szydło and the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, should be thanked for its content and detailed preparation. Polish society faces challenges arising from dynamic changes in the demographic structure. The two main phenomena resulting from demographic change are, on the one hand, low fertility and, on the other hand, an increasing number of older people. By 2050, the population of 60+ would rise to nearly 14 million and represent more than 40% of the population. the general population of our country. Seniors are therefore an ever-increasing social group requiring concern, support and interest in the state. It is impossible to disagree with what Minister Elżbieta Rafalska said during the debate on the situation of older people in Poland organized in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in February this year. And she said, "We live longer, but we also want to live better." We face challenges arising from dynamic changes in the population structure. The document adopted by the Council of Ministers is a comprehensive study describing the multifaceted demographic, economic and health situation of older people, their activity, education, family and social situation. Its integral part is important proposals and recommendations, which indicate the need to give priority to public policy actions aimed at improving the life situation of older people, changing their perception by society and combating age discrimination. On the basis of the information gathered and presented in the document, it must be stated that social policy towards older people is implemented by almost all departments and is one of the priorities of public policy pursued in the regions. The Government of Law and Justice recognises and carries out tasks aimed at improving the quality of life of Poles, in particular those of senior age. Quoting for Minister Rafalska: An important task for the implementation of senior policy is to formulate specific objectives together with a timetable for their implementation and a financial plan. The document submitted with the data contained in it and its detailed analysis is a good basis for this task. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption of a government document on the situation of older people in Poland for 2015, contained in the sejm print No. 1102. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u753	Thank you very much. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u754	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's an hour. 22.10, the hall is almost empty, and we are talking about the situation of Polish citizens. We are talking about the situation of older people in Poland, 8.8 million people over 60 years of age This year there are already 2 million more seniors than children and young people up to 17 years old. Seniors are 23%. Polish society. You would like to use the words of the famous Republic song: Where are they? Where is the President of the Council of Ministers, on which the Older Persons Act imposed an obligation to coordinate and monitor the situation of older people? Where's the Minister of Health? Where's the family minister? Where's the Minister of Sport? Where's the Minister of Culture? Where's the Minister of Infrastructure? Where are all the other ministers? Where's the government's attorney for equal treatment? I don't see anyone. 8 million, nearly 9 million citizens and the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family with the Director. Thank you for being here. Ladies and gentlemen! I will not discuss archival data today, Mr. Marshal, because this information about the situation of the elderly in 2015 lies in the office of Mr. Marshal for 4 months. Later, the committee dealt with this information in February and spent the next four months with your marshal. Finally, the Civic Platform has asked you to refer this information, because it would be a little embarrassing to discuss the 2015 data after two years. Ladies and gentlemen! The question is: Does the government implement the law on older people? Not in my opinion. The report is, even published in the form of a book, but that does not mean that the PiS government has somehow created forms, tools for systematic monitoring of older people. Even in this document... In fact, he has not consulted this document with senior organisations. He only hung it on a website, gave it five or seven days. Nor did he provide any information about the fact that the senior policy, the policy of decent old age in health is also implemented by the local government, by the municipalities, powiats and local government. This should all be in this information. It didn't turn up. And why didn't it? Because seniors aren't the priority of this government. That's brutal truth. Ladies and gentlemen! What you're doing is just embezzling pre-existing programs. It is the change of the name of the program This change is also the fact that out of the 60 million we wanted to spend on daily residence homes, you spend 30 million. Seniors say - this is a very sad term with this plus, which all the time becomes a downside, because there is more expensive fuel, more expensive water, 30 million for daily residence homes - that you put a cross on them. That's very, very sad. PiS refuses to work on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Elderly. You have stated in your reply to the Ombudsman that the age of persons cannot be a direct reason for creating special legal protection. PiS also drastically reduced the ombudsman's budget in such a way that he can perform fewer visits to social assistance homes. The government's proxy for equal treatment has not taken any legal action against age discrimination. PiS has stopped work on the government's draft Life Rent Act. The lack of supervision of voivodships over the functioning of senior care centers is noticeable, there are no necessary changes in geriatrics. Geriatrics is a subject we could talk about for the next few hours. You didn't give funding to geriatric troops, you excluded geriatric troops from the hospital network. Alzheimer's disease, dementia, lack of any support for patients and their caregivers. You kicked the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help off TV. This non-governmental organization has been operating for 5 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She was raising resources for decent medical care. She's ending right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u755	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u756	Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u757	Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u758	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the situation of the elderly in Poland. Napoleon needed three things to win the war: first - money, second - money, third - money. The same thinking requires a peaceful and prosperous old age for our seniors, our fathers and mothers. A coherent senior policy has not been developed in Poland. You replace it with scandalously low pensions, tapeworm reporting and statistics and activism for show. Everyone's crawling around the impossible. Some pretend to pay, others pretend to work, and all like fire avoid the basic issue - money. Older people are perceived as a social problem, a problem for the state, which means that we still have not broken up with the spirit of an absolute and sovereign state. Invention and responsibility for parents are excluded. Elders are more likely to fund adult children than adult children - older ones. The state's senior policy should not dehumanise, should not ignore interpersonal and intergenerational relations. He can't fire children from thinking about their parents, who will expect their help when they're old. The personal relations of the father-son or mother-son cannot be transferred to the state administration or regular bureaucracy. We all know the commandment: honor your father and your mother, and at the same time we all forget the second part of this commandment: that you may live long in the land which the Lord your God will give you. If Catholics, the absolute majority in Parliament, took God's fourth commandment seriously, they would immediately see a close relationship between the concern for the elderly and the length and dignity of their own lives. In his unspeakable wisdom, God did not predict the existence of the Social Insurance Institution. Instead, he assumed that there was a generational bond and that children cared for their parents. The Kukiz Club15 offers a simple solution from the beginning. Citizens' pensions should be introduced, equal for all, as in Canada or New Zealand. Secondly, the source of funding for the broadly understood senior policy is employee pensions. Third, individual contributions. It is this third pillar that should be filled with ideas to combine citizens' inventions with the state's capabilities. Here you should find a place for the idea of individual parental funds or family parent funds. Young people who are aware of the upcoming responsibilities towards older parents could start saving money for this purpose on special government-supported accounts with a few points higher than the average. The funds raised would be inherited and support the financing of government and regional programmes for seniors. This is of course just one example, but in our view, we should direct our thinking in this direction. Such solutions also have other, not only financial advantages - they create genuine generational ties based on the relationship of love and family life, would encourage parenthood, would force adult children to feel responsible for their parents, and elders would provide a worthy, joyful and active autumn of life. In this way we should repay them for the gift of life. Appreciating the rapporteur's efforts, I call for us to focus more energy and will on real and bold solutions that break the upcoming big steps of the pension and senior impasse and at the same time recreate broken family ties, rejecting the anti-family and inhumane policy of taking the responsibility of aging parents out of adult children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u759	Thank you. Mr Michał Jaros will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u760	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a modern statement on the information of the Council of Ministers on the situation of older people for 2015, together with the position of two committees, 1102 and 1263. Information about the situation of older people in Poland is the first document that describes the situation of older people and also relates to the state of implementation of senior policy. The document is divided into three parts: the first contains information on the socio-economic situation of older people, the second contains information on the state of implementation of social policy towards older people in Poland, and the last part presents conclusions and recommendations very important for the future. The Committee on Senior Policy and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy are requesting the adoption of a government document. We can learn from the document of the Council of Ministers that at the end of 2015 the Polish population was 38 400 thousand. of which as many as 9 million - exactly 8800 thousand. - were 60-year-olds and over. This is almost 23%. Of course, the majority of the elderly are women. There are 142 women out of 100 men. According to forecasts, for example the Central Statistical Office, in 2050 the population of the post-production age will be over 12 400 thousand. persons. This is an increase of nearly 4 million compared to today's situation. We are all aware that Polish society is ageing. The extension of life is of course the success of our civilization, but it is also a huge challenge. In the face of demographic change, we must ensure that older people have good health care. It is also extremely important to encourage older people to stay at work as long as possible and to convince employers that it is worth hiring experienced workers. Otherwise, we are putting the state budget at risk for massive expenses that will be impossible to cover. Another important information: we need to activate the elderly. It started to happen, and it was a great credit to previous governing teams, among others. sitting here in the Chamber of Ministers, former Minister Kosiniak-Kamish, but also all those involved, like Mr Szczerba. Nevertheless, the data presented in this report is insufficient. Unfortunately, our seniors are not as active as seniors in other Western European countries and in the world. We need to activate the seniors. We're going to activate them. I know many cases, for example from my hometown of Wrocław, the excellent functioning of senior clubs, such as the senior club Magnolia from the New Court, whose members, of course, I warmly greet. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Modern Club, I recommend the information of the Council of Ministers about the situation of older people in Poland for 2015 to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u761	Thank you very much. You will take the floor of the Member... I thought you weren't here. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: I am, I am. Mr. Marshal, I wouldn't abandon you.]] Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. I'm afraid so. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u762	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This is very important information and I am pleased that Mrs Borowiak, on behalf of the Law and Justice, speaks well of the achievements of the previous government, because this report would not have been produced if it had not been for the bill adopted in the previous term. Thank you very much for those good words. The report is important and the Minister presented it interestingly, only that there has been no senior policy in Poland for 2 years. I say this with great pain, because I thought it was an area in which we can communicate regardless of the differences of views and differences of opinion. There are no changes made that would serve seniors, because 500+ in this case with all good will and approach to this program, which helps many families, does not serve pensioners or pensioners. The change in the tax-free amount is also in no way experienced by pensioners. You've talked a lot about raising the minimum pension to $1,000. zł, but as it turned out later, many people who were counting on it did not get a thousand to this day. The lowest 8-year pension benefit is 2017. I'll remind you, for example. in 2012 we introduced a quota valorization: 71 PLN for each, and today it was 3,10 PLN, 7 PLN, 5 PLN. That was the valorization. Nor did you find about PLN 2 billion in such a good budgetary position, in the wonderful collection of VAT, as you boast, for special allowances this year for pensioners. You didn't provide any money. This shows that this is not a priority for you, and with this statement, either from the honourable Member's statement or from the Minister's statement, I simply cannot agree. This is not a priority for any ministry today. People of dignified age... You're probably gonna do it again: medication for the senior. I did not see great satisfaction, because most of these drugs were refunded drugs, which were already at a lower price, and there were not the most important medicines there, especially those that were improving the quality of life and enabling longer activity, especially in the area of older people's activity, not only the professional one, but also the social one. It is important to appreciate what non-governmental organisations and the third-century university minister mentioned by you are doing. This is the pride and pride of Poland. I think that Mr Szczerba, with his many years of experience, will confirm this. But there are also senior clubs, there are mentioned senior councils, communal, county, voivodeship, and there is finally the Polish Union of Retirists, Retirists and Invalids, bringing together almost 0.5 million people in Poland. It is also worth remembering in all actions and taking into account the opinion of this relationship. What's the plan of this government? That's my question. Is there any senior policy plan? We left you the long-term assumptions of senior policy, thanks to us you prepared this report, but is any of this even being implemented today, or is there even an idea for seniors, for people of dignified age? I'm afraid not, because I don't know what that name change was supposed to do. What was bothering you with the name "Senior - Wigor"? It was short for knowledge, integration, dignity, care, rehabilitation. Which one of those words bothered you? Does everything have to be positive? Mr Szczerba has shown that there is a great downside. What will happen to the agenda for older people's social activity when a government centre of NGOs is established? Will this program continue to be maintained, or will there even be any more money for seniors? Or are you gonna walk away from this because there's no plus? Such delicacy is not ideas, because they are not ideas that we are authors of, but they remain for successors... I was hoping you'd expand the program. You really didn't have to change his name. It's not elegant, but I think it doesn't bring you any good reception in the older people's environment because it's gonna be a plus. I would also like this debate to be a moment of reflection for all, especially for those who have been given so much in the elections and take 100% responsibility so that they can take real action in favour of senior policy, because unfortunately for this moment it has been blocked. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u763	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u764	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my views on the information of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy about the situation of older people in Poland for 2015. After reading the information, I must admit that the report is impressive. Thanks to the division into voivodships you can learn what the situation of older people is like in different parts of Poland, and as we know, this situation is not uniform. I consider this way of presenting statistical data to be very good. It gives us a clear picture of the situation of older people by region. Activities for seniors should be a priority, especially as the number of seniors is clearly increasing. Among other things, thanks to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Plan of Deputy Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the implementation of the first original budget, it was possible to restore the retirement age to a rational, just fair, social dimension, which gives the possibility of retiring in a much better physical condition, which in turn gives a chance for much more senior activity. It must be appreciated that, at last, right now, the state's position towards seniors is changing so significantly. Maybe not directly, but in a thousand ways over the past decades, the opinion that they were supposed to be a particularly demanding group or a burden to society was sipping towards pensioners, seniors. The reforms of the current government are fundamentally changing this situation. This is no longer a policy aimed at raising further taxes and denying people their rights and their property. And the right of a generation of seniors was also retirement at a rational age. Thanks to the fact that the Ministry of Finance finds funds for pension reform, its essence, its dignity will be regained by Polish seniors. Today they are no longer perceived as a burden, but as people who get what they deserve, as people who should get more than they get, and as those who, as seniors, are still all of us and our common homeland as a whole - still, although in another way - can give a great deal. Let me repeat: without the measures that have been taken in economic resorts, all of this would not have happened at all. We are now seeing a prolonged human life span with a decreasing childhood. All the more so is the pro-family policy undertaken by the government in 2016. I believe that family and senior policies should complement each other. We should try to find instruments that will help meet both challenges and exploit the potential of seniors. I think it would be a good idea for social campaigns to promote active lifestyles among seniors, because this one is at a very low level. It is therefore important to build a positive image of the elderly as a person who is not only physically active, but also works - not only for the family but also for the good of society, among others. by engaging in volunteering. I hope that in the near future the interest of seniors will increase in active participation in senior councils. Stronger cooperation between public entities and seniors and senior organisations can contribute to this. The government programme for older people's social activity is an example of activities that have a clear impact on the environment of older people. In discussing the report, I must say that in March 2017, the minimum pension amount was increased to 1 000. zł and pensions for incapacity for work up to 750 zł. I am also aware that this action is still a drop in the sea of the needs of seniors, especially those with limited efficiency. I thank the Minister for presenting at the meeting of the Committee on Senior Policy and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family a multidimensional picture of the situation of older people in Poland in 2015. I welcome the comprehensiveness of research and numerous statistics showing the situation of older people in various areas of life. This is a ready material for a detailed analysis, after which concrete actions can be taken to improve the situation of seniors. It must be made clear that the report of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is proof that much is done for the elderly, but still a long way by us to make up for lost time. The Free and Solidarni Circle welcomes the report submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u765	Thank you very much. Three Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, asks a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u766	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All seniors in Poland are concerned about the situation related to geriatrics. It is not that this situation does not bother young people either. Because every senior deserves a decent medical care. Every senior deserves professional medical care, and such medical care for patients with multi-morbidity offers geriatric wards. They were created, and these branches were encouraged by the collection of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. Unfortunately, geriatric branches in the first and second degree hospitals have been expelled from the hospital network, they will only be able to provide benefits as part of the profile: internal diseases. What are you gonna do? Will the NFZ's contracts be drawn up... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u767	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u768	...about security?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u769	The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u770	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask: Are there any work to be done to improve the situation of people who provide care for members of the disabled family and obsessively ill, independent because of their age? They feel as discrimination the fact that the amount of benefits in their case is lower than that in the case of disabled people, underage children. The second question concerns plans to extend the organisation of third-century universities to smaller centres. Today they operate mainly in metropolitan centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u771	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u772	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few questions. First of all, what's the government's plan for senior policy? Are there specific draft laws in the government's work plan? If so, I ask the Minister to mention them, to give an approximate time limit for presenting to the High House what they are about. What's the plan to raise pensions? Will the promise be fulfilled that the minimum pension for all will be 1 000. Evil? I also mean referring to the words that have been said here, e.g. the retirement age for farmers from 1 January 2018 will be increased by 5 years. Despite another proposal from the President at the committee meeting, this has been changed, so please do not mislead that the retirement age is reduced. It is raised by 5 years from day to day in the case of hard-working farmers. Will there even be any senior policy for this government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u773	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes the discussion. Would the Minister like to speak? Two questions were. The Member is already resigning, I understand. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal's in a hurry.]] [[Mr. Marshal. The plane's already gone. We've got time.]] Not all of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u774	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start by saying that the Member who is not here...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u775	There's nothing to discuss with the absent. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: ...that an older man is not a problem and that it is not a problem for this country. Nor can we agree with some of the statements made by Members. I'll start with the lowest pensions. Mr President, Minister, in 2014 this increase was PLN 13.30. It should be acknowledged that the lowest pension in 2017 has increased to 1 000. zł, which will cover all pensioners, even those who did not initially raise. This increase is the highest if we follow it since 2008, and it is 117.44 PLN. There was no such increase because it was actually 71 PLN - and this was the highest - and 41 PLN, 35, 31, 21 and mentioned 13.30 PLN. With regard to the aforementioned old program, Senior - WIGOR, today Senior+, there have been words that it is a cosmetic change. It's not a cosmetic change, and it's not just a name change. What's changed? I will start by saying that the financing conditions have changed, and therefore there has been an increase in funding for both adaptation, construction and maintenance costs by reducing housing conditions, i.e. greater availability. First of all, a new form has been introduced in support centres, i.e. senior clubs, which have not yet functioned. You can see that this met with a very large response from local governments, because this year we are building 96 clubs, which is a form more accessible, more open to local governments. Therefore, I'm really asking for the truth about this statement, it's not just a cosmetic change. Are we building social policy for the elderly? Yes. Social policy towards the elderly by 2030 is based on three pillars: security, participation and solidarity. I hope that the Council of Ministers will adopt this document this year and that it will set the lines of action. In general, I would like to say that among all actions addressed to the elderly, we distinguish between actions aimed at the group of independent older people, because, as I pointed out in the information, this independence increases with age, and therefore special actions aimed at the elderly and, in relation to the independent, have been prepared in a unique way. This year, too, we are planning an amendment to the Older Persons Act. With regard to the actions referred to by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, I will say that there is a case-law reform team in place and concrete action will be taken after the revision of the ruling system. I would also like to say and reassure the Member that we are working closely with the union of pensioners and pensioners, and that we absolutely do not neglect these contacts. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Commissioner Joanna Borowiak, Legal and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u776	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Just a little bit. I would like to thank the Members of the Joint Committees very much for their thorough, calm work, for leaning on the document in a substantive way. Senior citizens are an important and priority group for the rule of law and justice. I would also like to thank the Minister Bojanowska present in the Chamber and Mr Kołucki for his systematic, continuous cooperation with the Committee on Senior Policy for and for the benefit of Polish seniors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u777	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u778	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this comprehensive document, we read that at the end of 2014, geriatric troops had 853 beds in which about 22,000 were treated during the year. patients, which, as indicated, is almost half as much as in 2010. There is also the thought, or rather the conclusion or alarming thought, that the number of geriatric branches in Poland is still insufficient. It's written in a bold font. In the following paragraphs, we read that the cause of territorial diversity of access to geriatric benefits is primarily a small number of practicing geriatric specialists and a limited number of geriatric branches. What do we find there to do? These are: the development of branches and geriatric clinics, as well as improving access to health services also by improving the financing of medical services and coordinated healthcare. It's written down? It's written down! What's the reality? One decision, without a bold font, is that you throw away the funding of geriatric branches in hospitals I and II, i.e. in urban, district and voivodeship hospitals. Geriatric branches and sub-groups shall be provided with funding by the end of September. What's next? What's the point of records, declarations in extensive documents about caring for our seniors, about their decent lives, with respect for which they've worked their entire lives? One technical and soulless decision shows that all of this has no value for you, that it is just empty slogans and passwords. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u779	The Committee on Senior Policy and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy are asking for the information from print No 1102. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 45th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward, i.e. two Member States, in order to make statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mr Simon Giżyński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u780	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! From the history of the parallel between the Polish People's Republic and the Third People's Republic. Favorites by PO's ruling notebooks of famous octopus, beef cheeks remain a simple reminiscence of the realities of the 1950s, when the working class drank cognac with the lips of their representatives Bolesław Bierut and other members of the KC PZPR Political Bureau. On the other hand, the economic thought of the ruling and present PO is a simple extension of the PZPR reform of Bolesław Jaszczuk from 1970, i.e. from the time of late Gomłka, with the slogan of selective development and incentives of material interest for employees. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u781	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, unless she wishes to make it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u782	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I, a citizen of the Republic of Poland, aware of the responsibilities of a police officer, vow to serve the nation faithfully, to protect the legal order established by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, to protect the security of the state and its citizens even at risk of life - is a rota oath. On July 24, we will celebrate the Police Day established by the Sejm in July 1995 on the anniversary of the adoption in 1919 of the Historical Law on State Police. Under this law, the formation became an executive body of the state and local authorities in order to ensure security, peace and public order. The history of the Polish people brutally wrote down their cards with innocently spilled blood, also many police officers. It is impossible to forget those tragedies in which in proof of devotion and highest sacrifice for the country man gives his own life. Quoting for Marshal Piłsudski: a nation that does not respect its past does not deserve respect for the present and has no right to the future. Memory of heroes is our national duty. Police service is the constant pursuit of security, the rule of law and the greater good that every man desires. Many times, with health risks and even lives, police officers save helpless, victims who do not have the strength to claim justice, especially in the family-social dimension. It is impossible to describe our appreciation for the conscientious service that plays an invaluable role in ensuring safety, health and life. And here a beautiful example is the attitude of Kujawsko-Pomorskie policemen. July 3rd this year I had a great pleasure to attend the celebration of the restoration by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of the 50th Police Station in Zławieś Wielka, during which a special award was given to the younger aspirant Rafał Dorobka from Torun for heroic saving the life of a 9-month-old boy. This event, like many others, shows how much you are needed, professional and dedicated to another human being - police officers. Dear Policemen and Policemen! Thank you for your service, your right decisions, your courage and your determination. I wish you health, serenity and broad public recognition. Let your awareness of your need become a source of dignity, courage and strength in carrying out such an important mission as building a better world for us today and for future generations. I also wish that the house and family would be a space of love for you, and above all, a belief that the essence of police service is a calling. I wish the entire police community perseverance and peace of mind and all the best. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-07-12-sejm-45-3.u783	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 45th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting of the Sejm will be laid out for review at the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 46th session of the Sejm, convened on 18, 19 and 20 July 2017, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 22 min 24]]
