ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u1	I open the forty-seventh Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła as the secretaries of the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. Gentlemen, the secretaries are already at the table. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 40th meeting on 15 September 2017, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Environmental Protection Law. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 40th meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the forty-five, forty-four and forty-six Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider items from the first to the 17th draft agenda, although the printing to those items was delivered at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions has not been prepared for the Act on the National Institute of Freedom. The Center for Civil Society Development. This item is therefore not included in the draft agenda. Following the preparation of the report on the subject, the agenda will be supplemented by this law. State Senators, I propose to change the order of consideration of points: information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January and consider this point as a third; the Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment and certain other laws and review it before a point on the Law amending the Law of Infringement. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposals. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: a law on specific arrangements for improving the quality and availability of health care services and considering it as a fourth point, i.e. after a point concerning the Act on the Establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that we delete from the agenda and consider points at the next Senate meeting: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 55th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak, the Health Protection Act against the consequences of solarium use and the amendment of the Package Act because we do not yet have reports. [[Voice from the room: Packaging would be...]] Packages would be... You didn't write that one. Of course I do. We will bring a point on the Package Act to this meeting. It's just a matter of supplemental. Maybe it's different. We're gonna delete... Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say this again because there are ambiguities here and we need to dispel them. I'm gonna start over, I mean. Not from the very beginning, but from a passage we have doubts about. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Tell me which are the points.]] I'll tell you what. It's changing, but you'll know everything. I suggest we delete two points. The first point to be deleted is the second reading of the draft resolution on the 55th anniversary of the death of Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak... [[Voice from the room: Which is the point?]] He's at the end. Nineteenth. [[Voice from the room: Which point?]] [[Nineteenth.]] It's about deleting this point. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The second point to be deleted is the Health Protection Act against the consequences of solarium use. He was at the beginning of the agenda. [[Voice from the room: 7th.]] We have to cross it off because... well, we have to. If I do not hear the voices of the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted these proposals. In the absence of a vote of objection, I find that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Mr. Marshal! There is talk of health here and I would like to ask whether it is appropriate to put on the agenda a point which will, as a rule, cause you to vaccinate against flu also other senators.]] It's not about the subject, Senator. Excuse me. Sometimes it happens that we don't talk about it, and it's the senator who's talking about it right now. Let me repeat the question: is any of your senators against deleting the two points I mentioned? [[No.]] No. Thank you. In the absence of any votes against, I declare that we have removed two laws from the agenda. Act amending the Act on packaging and packaging waste management and certain other laws. This item will be considered at this meeting following the preparation of the committee's report. We'll put him on the agenda at the right time. Ladies and gentlemen, we have... Of course, I will have a question to the High House about whether the High Chamber accepts proposals to supplement the order with these points. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Mr Marshal announced that if the committee provided the report, a point on the draft Act on the National Institute of Freedom could be put in order. Therefore, I would like to announce that if we wish to put this item on the agenda, there will be an objection from our club. In our view, it is a dangerous law, a law dividing NGOs into non-governmental governmental organisations, and those which will be excluded. It is a law that does not respond to the problems of the environment of NGOs, and a law that does not strengthen civil society. Therefore, as I said, we will be against putting this item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u3	Okay, Mr. Senator. You said you'd object. We know that because it was... I can tell you that we will announce a recess before and inform you that there will be a vote. The Lord promises you'll be... I'm gonna ask the marshals to announce a break and let them know there's gonna be a vote so there's no surprise for anybody. Senator Grodzki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, I don't know, perhaps to the President of Kraska... The solar system law was voted out yesterday at the committee meeting, and the rapporteur was appointed...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u5	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but we've already done this, and we're not going back to her. I'm sorry. In the clowns, ask... At the moment, this is not really a subject for the plenary session of the Senate. We voted it out, we're not going back to it. [[I'm just trying to justify it.]] And in the clowns, please... There was a time for that. [[Okay.]] Now, that's it, we're done. There were no votes against. We're not going back... Because that's how we can go back to any point. This is not the time, this is the time. I repeat the question: would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today at 12.00 a half-hour break will be ordered for the opening of the exhibition "Blessed Jerzy Popieluszko" A priest and a martyr. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of legislative proposals for a draft resolution on the 17th anniversary... [[Voice from the room: 70th.]] ...the 70th anniversary of the birth of Blessed Father Jerzy Popieluszko to vote on this matter we will proceed immediately after considering this point. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we will join you in the afternoon to hear information about the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2016. Tomorrow, we will begin the session at 9.00 a.m. after considering the point concerning the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. We will also proceed tomorrow with the examination of the points: the Law on State Enterprise. Airports; information from the Council of Ministers on the state of the implementation of the National Road Construction Programme for the years 2014 and 20203, with a view to 2025. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2018 marks the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. As part of the celebrations commemorating these important events, the Senate has organized a national art competition under the patronage of the Marshal of the Senate, the White Eagle, our pride for the students. The most important goal of the competition is the interest of children and young people in the importance of symbols of our statehood, as well as the popularization of knowledge about national emblems. I would like to encourage very cordially the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to join the competition in their electoral districts. I hope that thanks to your commitment, the competition will meet with great interest from young people. Detailed information on the competition will be provided to you in the Senator's lockers. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 70th anniversary of the birth of Blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko; the draft resolution on the 70th anniversary of the birth of Blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko the chaplain of Solidarity. I very much welcome the brother of blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko, Mr. Joseph Popieluszka... [[applause]] ...with her wife, Mrs. Alfreda Popieluszko. I would like to welcome you all very warmly. [[Applause]] The Cardinal's eminence will be here in a moment, and we'll welcome you at the right time. Hello, Deputy Secretary General of the Polish Episcopal Conference, Prelate Jarosław Mrówczyński. I very much welcome the Prelate. [[Applause]] I very warmly welcome the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, Mr Jarosław Szark. I very much welcome the president. [[Applause]] Welcome to the Chairman of the National Commission of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity), Mr Piotr Duda, along with the accompanying representatives of the Union. Hello, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the above mentioned projects have been submitted by the Senators' groups and are contained in 575 and 581 respectively. The committee's report, drawn up in accordance with the Rule. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, see print No 575/581 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to submit a report to the committee on draft resolutions. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! Dear Father George's Family! Priest Prelate! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is a great honor for me to be the rapporteur of the resolution today on the 70th anniversary of the birth of Blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko, chaplain of.Solidarity. This resolution, I remind you, has been prepared over political divisions and I hope that it will be adopted unanimously. Father George was a very important figure to many of us. In the martial law he was a mentor, especially for the people of the "Solidarity," a guardian, a mentor. He remembered us when we were arrested, imprisoned, fired and humiliated. He pleaded for us and lifted us up in spirit, and when it was bad and we had the temptation to retaliate, he said: conquer evil with good. I had the pleasure of meeting Father George personally, I only spoke to him once, but I knew he would remain very important to me. So when I received my first sentence for reading his homily under the church in my city after a Holy Mass for my homeland... My friends and I went out of Solidarity in the coming months. If he was alive, he'd only be 70 years old. Today, too, he is very lacking. There wouldn't be free Poland if it wasn't for Father George. I'm sorry about this maybe too long, personal introduction. I now accede to the resolution. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 70th anniversary of the birth of blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko, the chaplain of the Solidarity. On 14 September 2017 it was the 70th anniversary of the birth of blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko, chaplain of Solidarity. Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko was born in the liturgical feast of the Exaltation of the Cross, on 14 September 1947 in the village of Okopy near Suchowola in Podlasie in a very religious family of Władysław and Marianna Popiełuszków. After his graduation in 1965, he joined the Higher Seminary in Warsaw; mobilized in the framework of repression against the Catholic Church in 1966.68 he served in a unit for seminarians in Bartoszyce. He was ordained priest on 28 May 1972 at the hands of God's Servant Fr. Card. Stefan Wyszyński. He was a vicar in St. Trinity in Teeth, parish of Our Lady of Poland in Anina, pastor in the church of the Child Jesus in Żoliborz, academic church of St. Anna. In May 1980, he was resident in St. Stanisława Kostka in Warsaw. From the beginning of his priesthood he served among the most needy, hurt and abused. Since August 1980 he has been associated with working environments, and during the strike period in Huta, Warsaw celebrated Masses. for the protesters. After the introduction of martial law, he supported the persecuted and organized charities for the needy. From 28 February 1982 he held in Warsaw in the Żolibor shrine of St. Stanisława Kostka monthly Mass. in the intention of the Homeland, which gathered thousands of believers from all over Poland. On May 19, 1983, he celebrated the funeral of a police officer murdered by a police officer from the Command of the Civic Militia at ul. Jesuit in Warsaw, Grzegorz Przemyk, and in September 1983 organized the first pilgrimage of people working on Jasna Góra. In one of his homilys he said: "To remain a free man spiritually, one must live in the truth. Living in the truth is witnessing to the truth outside, confessing to it and claiming it in every situation. The truth is unchangeable. The truth cannot be destroyed by one or another decision, one or another law. Because of his pastoral ministry, he was persecuted by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. The Communist authorities wanted to shut the priest's mouth by intimidation, and when it didn't work, it was murder. He felt his death. When he visited his parents in September 1984, he said to his father, "If they kill me, don't cry after me." His abduction on October 19, 1984, after the Rosary service in the parish of St. Holy Polish Martyr Brothers in Bydgoszcz, and then news of the cruel murder caused a shock throughout the country. The Poles asked themselves: why was the priest killed, who was inspired by the Gospel, and who, in the words of St.Paul, conquered evil with good, expressed true concern for his neighbor, because he looked for good in everyone? On the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the birth of blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to this outstanding Pole and priest A martyr who played a historic role in the recent history of Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to authorised representatives of applicants. I would like to remind you that the applicants have authorised them to represent Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski for print No. 575. With regard to printing No 581. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Is anyone registered? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Family! Dear guests! I have signed up as the representative of the applicants, co-author of one of these prints, and I would like to say in my introductory words something that is not in this resolution, because it could not be, and what I think should be said. I am thinking here of this passage, which of the original text of the resolution disappeared, and in which it was said that the canonization process of the priest began in 2014. We're gonna do it right now. I think of all people of good will in Poland and abroad, and we are waiting for this canonization. There are different dates. Not to us, secular, to speak about it. We have a representative of the Church, priest of the Prelate of Anczynski. We know that various statements of various people of the Church, among others. Warsaw Metropolitan, Cardinal Nycz. No, on 12 July 2017, the text of which the author, referring to known information, claimed that this canonization could take place in 2018. We wait with confidence and we know it will happen. Everything must be carried out in accordance with the canonical procedure, in accordance with the rules of ecclesiastical law, so that there is no doubt. The great wisdom of the Church and the experience of more than 2,000 years give us, faithful, an example of how we can act properly. For many people, the crucial moment after these dramatic events related to the abduction and the beastly murder of priest Jerzy was 14 June 1987. Then the Holy Father, already today Saint John Paul II personally demanded that the official program of the pilgrimage to his homeland be modified a little bit, and expressed the will to visit the sanctuary of St. Stanisław Kostka and the tomb of the blessed... not yet blessed... According to the old tradition of the Church, if the Pope comes to the grave of some person to pray... Well, it was clear that he thought that this person had died in the opinion of sanctity. I would like to quote part of the text by Dr Milena Kindziuk, who in my opinion described perfectly the visitation of the Żolibor shrine and the atmosphere of that time, more than 30 years ago, in Warsaw's Żoliborz. I quote Dr. Milena Kindziuk. It was June 1987. The third pilgrimage of the Holy Father to the Homeland lasted. However, this was not the best time for pilgrims who wanted to meet with the Holy Father. Many efforts have been made to make these meetings more difficult. Under the pretence of care for the pope, the security services removed the pilgrims from the squares where the Mass was to be held, or subjected them to detailed control. Young people were sometimes reviewed and their banners were taken away. People were even banned from having bottles of drinking water. They were supposed to constitute a potential threat to the pope, as officially explained. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Holy Father was to come to the parish of St. Stanisława Kostka on June 14 in the mornings was informed laconically by the parish priest. However, the security services did not allow more than 200 people to gather in the church. The other 200 could gather in the church courtyard and 400 in the park, right next to the temple. A papal visit to the grave of Fr. Yes, George had to be a private person. People have been waiting since dawn. They stood in front of a beautifully decorated temple, decorated with flowers and flags, also with a national emblem. Since 6:00 a.m. Fr. Felix Folejewski began the prayer of the Rosary. Pilgrims could hardly concentrate. They looked at the entrance gate at which Fr. Washing. Bogucki. There were two old men standing right next to him: the parents of Fr. George. After them Waldemar Chrostowski, driver and friend of the murdered priest. When it hit 8:40, the papamobile arrived. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Before the Pope entered, he stopped before the portrait of Fr. George, and he blessed him. And then on the carpet red as the blood slowly walked towards the main altar of the temple. He's kneeled. He covered his eyes with his hand, supported his forehead on the other hand. He prayed in front of the Blessed Sacrament for 10 minutes. He seemed like he wasn't there. There was a deaf, thrilling silence in the church. No one dared to stop her. Then the pope came out of the temple slowly. People began to sing a famous song: Motherland has so many times in blood bathed The same one she sounded at Masses for the Homeland, which Fr. Oh, my gosh. The Holy Father headed towards the tomb of Fr. George. The kneeling was prepared for him here, but John Paul II passed him by and took a vigorous step further. He crossed the chain and approached the gravestone. On the grave he laid a bundle of white and red roses and kneeled on both knees on the ground. He held his hands and kissed the stone plate of the tomb. After a while, he got up. It took him a long time to think about it. He kneeled again. He prayed. After a few minutes, he approached Father George's parents kneeling next to them. Mother, you gave us a great son. He said to Marianna Popieluszko. Holy Father, I didn't give, but God gave the world through me. The Pope kissed her on the head then took Father George in. I thanked the Holy Father for the rosary, because with this rosary, Father George went on the road of eternity. She also asked the Pope for a blessing for the family. Bless you. I bless those who stayed at home and heard from the Holy Father, who gave the entire family of Popieluszko the rosaries. High Izbo, I reminded you of this moment because I think it was also an important moment for all of us. And I would like to thank all those who supported the idea of this resolution very warmly at the end of my speech. I would like to thank Senator Sztark for constructive conversations, the possibility of harmonising this text, very interesting discussions we had on the occasion, about various details of Father Jerzy's life, we tried to check everything out. Mr. Senator Professor Jan Żaryn, thank you for your historical consultation. I hope the High House will adopt this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u9	Thank you very much. You're Professor Jan Żaryn. There you go. I'll move a little bit of our opening, but we'll do it after we pass the resolution. I really want us to make this resolution before...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u10	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Therefore, I will speak briefly. Mr. Marshal! Dear Family! Dear Prelate! Mr. President! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I, too, would like to refer to this reality related to priest George, who was not included in the resolution for obvious reasons. The resolution could not touch all aspects of this rich heritage, which was left to us by blessed priest Jerzy. I would like to refer to these events, which are undoubtedly very much in our Polish memory, and if they have not come to this day, I hope that also with these short words they will fall. I particularly mean two very important moments that are worth recalling. Pope John Paul II, who undoubtedly supported Father George in his dramaticly difficult service in the church of St. Stanisława Kostka in Żoliborz, after 13 December 1981, gave him the proof which was already mentioned here, his support for the Rosary, which through Bishop Kraszewski reached Poland and was given to priest Jerzy with the words of very clear, unambiguous support of the most important, supreme ruler of the Church, governor of Christ. It was insanely important for the service of Father Jerzy because of all the present reality and the terrible attacks he was subjected to in the context of the repression of the operational case of the code name Popiel. That's what it's called. And, therefore, it is no wonder that John Paul II also left a very strong testimony concerning this most dramatic moment, the moment of the death of Father George. As Cardinal Stanisław Dziwisz tells us about John Paul II's reaction to the message of the death of blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko, Pope John Paul II reacted with the following words: he died as St. Andrzej Bobola, patron of Poland. These words so unambiguously, immediately spoken by John Paul II were not only the result of the emotions which had to accompany this message, the natural emotion, the obvious emotion, but were also a testimony of the unambiguous typing of Father George in October 1984 into a group of Polish martyrs for his faith and homeland. Because St. Andrzej Bobola, patron of Poland, whose remains, after the dramatic fate of these remains, returned to Poland in 1938, became patron of Poland reborn, the Second Republic, free and independent. These words of John Paul II about priest Jerzy Popieluszka, not spoken today, but in October 1984, spoke of him, about priest Jerzy de facto as the patronage of this Republic, which was only before us, that is, the one in which we live today. Also this visit of John Paul II and the prayer at the grave, as Senator Jan Maria Jackowski said, were a very unambiguous testimony, perhaps even a manifestation of John Paul II, addressed to us, to all Poles, but maybe in a special way to priests, Polish priests, because the Polish priest is obliged to carry out his mission in conditions which are sometimes hardest for the fate of his country. Father Jerzy was then the patron of the Polish priesthood of the 1980s. And the last event I would like to mention is the funeral of priest Jerzy, which took place on 3 November 1984 in Warsaw, in the sanctuary of St. Stanisław Kostka. Probably some of us, some of us sitting here, attended this service. I know from Mrs. Grażyna Shark that she was there. We even looked in the picture in this square when we talked about this resolution. The funeral of Father Jerzy was attended by a minimum of 600 thousand Poles, mostly Warsawers, and some data speak of as much as 1 million. It was a manifestation in honor of the then murdered by SB officers of priest Jerzy Popieluszko comparable only to some of the most important events in the history of Polish communist Poland, in the history of our homeland of this period. Among them is the great celebration of September 8, 1946 from Jasna Góra, when August Hlond fulfilled the Fatima apparitions of Our Lady. At that time the Polish nation experienced them in the context of the Soviet attack on Polish reality, a million believers were on Jasna Góra. There is also the Millennium Year and the events that preceded it, the Great Novena, and especially on August 26, 1956, and renewed Jasna Góra vows. Here is the visit of Pope John Paul II in Poland, the first visit which gathered in many places in Poland, especially in Krakow's Błonia, this magical almost number of more than 1 million believers. And the funeral of Father Jerzy was another event that constituted our present, our life, those who survived it, our generation, also our fathers, our mothers. Therefore, Father Jerzy Popieluszko became, on the one hand, an outstanding son of the Church, a martyr for faith, and, on the other hand, undoubtedly, one who brings the highest Polish values, with patriotism, with love for his homeland, the love that we would like to imitate, in accord with the words "evil good conquer." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Father Popieluszko's family! I would like to begin by thanking Senator Shark for the consequence in commemorating the character of priest Jerzy Popieluszko. In her resolution, she mentioned that the most tragic chapter in his life took place in Bydgoszcz. I've been asked to accompany... Because he was going to visit Bydgoszcz and then participate in the service and unfortunately, what was ineffective, in saying goodbye. There's one last entry left as a gift, a little souvenir. And there was a belief with which to measure, that it is not only tribute and memory, it is a hard life and carrying the message that he carried, preached and for which he gave his life this Pole, priest, man. In view of this, I will allow myself to share some reflections with the High House. Maybe I'll start with the most important reflection. A homage is the minimum that the High House should give up, but the legacy is more important. Since he can no longer pass it on today, since he can't give it to us today, most, I think, from the solidarity of the modern world, what signs must be placed around the problems that are born, how to maintain dignity in the matter of emigration, egoism, which brings with him the market economy, refer to the language of hatred, which here, mostly Christian, has become common bread, to two churches tearing Poland to shreds... First of all, there is no sign to show us what dignity means today. And then he said at the time of the service, it was reduced from mass to service. In difficult times, when solidarity weakened, when the power of society weakened and dictatorship grew, that dignity, as stated in this resolution, means witnessing to the truth. That it is not to give in, it is to be brave, to bear witness, to be courageous, not to give in to communion despite its strength. These are the signs we're missing today. We miss this legacy, these heirs. I say that Poland abandoned what Father Jerzy Popieluszko gave his life for. Invited to Bydgoszcz, he was aware, and even as I see, I hear here, he felt that he was crossing the limits of possibilities. He had two unenforced death sentences and other civilian death sentences. This was clearly indicated by Mr Urban in the filipice, who was later read by 3/4 of Poland as a savior of the truth. In this resolution it is said that the system killed Father Jerzy Popiełuszka, not only him. And it wasn't just the system that accounted for it. His men accounted for themselves, his minions. Because if you even assume that this only murder trial Not the killers yet, I think there's a mistake. He was some sort of settlement of Jaruzelski's crew with this crime, that's... That's not true. This system, the fourth department, the heads of this department continued to function, and his pretorians spoke in mass media, not asking, but explaining that they were innocent. The resolution ends in homage. Today the homage is treated in Poland as a kind of recognition, of course, but also as a farewell. I say it's not enough. This does not need to be included in the resolution. Father Jerzy Popieluszko was tried by the court which delivered the judgment on behalf of the Polish People's Republic. I wasn't given, I didn't want to, and I couldn't participate in this trial, like many other witnesses. It was thought to be an incident, an overshoot by several people. And yet the resolution It is not only a resolution, it is also a historical truth that the system has exceeded its powers, it has even broken its constitution. That's why I think And I'm directing my eyes to the president of the IPN, and I'm directing my words to him. That the case isn't over. The killers live, the author lives... the spokesperson of the government of the Polish People's Republic, who was then the bearer of death for priest Jerzy Popieluszko. I'm asking... And I am asking that the IPN take action to clarify this matter while some are still alive. Perhaps these, so to speak, are the proportions of the Institute's activities to change so that there is more humiliation on the part of the communist system, and less attention to people who have fought this system in one way or another, and who... [[applause]] ...they're not free from mistakes that I admit to, either. As you know, they are also not free from the mistakes closest to them except the family of a priest, priests. The Polish Primate admitted the mistake, said that he was not enough to stop the communist authorities from attacking. But it's unexplainable, for example. a case that just came out. That those who officially invited and hosted Father Popieluszko were 2 priests who were secret co-workers of the SB. The question remains: who was the director, who arranged the timetable for the return trip, even the accelerated one, from this church? Although this and other matters should, in my opinion, be supported by the IPN, with its capabilities, also legal, so that what is at the moment, even before the beatification process... so that this will have the value of the correct truth, and not be authorized by the judgment of the court given on behalf of the Polish People's Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm not to speak, I'm to ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u13	Ad vocem? I don't think that's Ad vocem, because it wasn't mentioned... But you have five minutes... [[It's within five minutes.]] You're welcome, Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u14	Mr. Marshal, I am very sorry, I would just like to express briefly, on two points, my opinion, as part of the polemics of Senator Rulewski's statement. First line, crazy important. The Primate of Cardinal Joseph Glemp in his very dramatic words referred to a completely different reality, namely, he apologized for the fact that, as a man, he tried as he could, in human terms, to protect and to have under his care his priest, Senator, or priest George, but the great responsibility he had as head of this priest ended with the martyrdom of this priest. Primate Joseph Glemp did not apologize for his guilt. Here is a completely different philosophy of thinking about responsibility in the Church and of not being able to... 'Cause he couldn't do it, humanly... But we know very well that it was not the fault of Primate Józef Glemp. So I would ask you not to use primitive words in relation to great things. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Oh, I'm so sorry!]] And a second little correction. Namely, the question... [[I'm not gonna comment on that.]] ... a process ending in early 1985. This is not the only verdict of history, the verdict of historians who worked and worked at the Institute of National Remembrance. Fortunately, thanks to free Poland we are in historical research in a completely different place. And without a doubt the historical knowledge that is available today, including that of the prosecutor's office, tells us that Father Jerzy murdered three officers in the fourth department of the Ministry of Interior: Grzegorz Piotrowski, Leszek Pęczala, Waldemar Chmielewski. The development of science in the free world also leads to the fact that there are other hypotheses, there are other pathways for identifying leads. And that's what the science in the free world is, that it's independent of the only verdict, just and exclusively... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...but it's a development. So... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice ……]] ...I would also ask you not to leave Poland and Poles in 2017 at the level of perception of reality by the prism of the lying process of Toruń in 1985. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u15	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] [[Mr. Marshal, don't...]] [[Voice from the room: Janek, not anymore.]] [[Come on, Janek.]] But do you volunteer... You sign up...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u16	It's a formal matter. Either Senator Żaryn would like to give up the term "primitive" or I would have to present documents which are otherwise referring to the situation they were talking about. [[Mr. Marshal, let's vote.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u17	He resigned? [[He resigned.]] Yes or no? I don't understand...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u18	If it pleases Senator Rulewski, then of course I withdraw the word "primitive."
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u19	We remove the word "primitive" from the protocol. Thank you very much. [[But I still do, of course...]] I see. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask... [[...that this statement was not justified.]] Thank you very much. [[Oh, my God. Oh, my God.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Shame! Shame!]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I would also like to inform you that Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. And we are voting on the draft resolution on the 70th anniversary of the birth of blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko, the chaplain of Solidarity. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 70th anniversary of the birth of Blessed priest Jerzy Popieluszko, the chaplain of the Solidarity. I ask you to approach Mr. Joseph Popieluszko's table... perhaps with Alfred's wife. I would like to present to you the resolution that has been adopted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome. [[Applause]] High Izbo, adjourn until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 57 to 12 minutes 35]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We proceed to the second agenda: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January - June 2017 (the presidency of Malta in the Council of the European Union). The text of the information is provided in print No 561. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Commission examined the information at its meeting on 11 July 2017 and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the State Secretary present at the meeting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Konrad Szymański. Hello, Minister. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am pleased to once again present to you the main themes of Polish policy during the next Presidency, in this case the Maltese Presidency, in the European Union, which has come to an end and which has been focused primarily on issues such as migration, the internal market, security, social policy and neighbourhood policy. This is sometimes due to the geographical context Malta is one of those countries that is very close to the European Union's neighbourhood, in this case to the Southern Neighbourhood countries. And sometimes this is due to the objective importance of the subject in the European Union, which rarely ends in the course of today's very short presidency period. An additional important dimension of the Maltese Presidency was the formal notification of the intention of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union. In turn, this has led to an increased process of preparation of the Union party for these negotiations. I can say that the process of preparing the mandate setting out the guidelines of the European Council itself was very satisfying from a Polish point of view. Not only did he give the opportunity to show the unity of the European Union at this rather difficult time, but also in a very good way represents all the essential Polish expectations of the process itself. It's about the system, about the phase. As well as the content of the mandate of the European Union to negotiate with the United Kingdom. They, of course, focus on citizens' rights and financial accounting rules. Brexit was also a negative but important context for an in-depth reflection on the future of the European Union itself. This has certainly been a very important historic event which shows that the process of European integration has ceased to be a predictable, one-way, determined process, a process whose future can be predicted very easily. It is in conjunction with the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome that, at that time, the Maltese Presidency in the European Union was preparing for this anniversary, also from a political point of view, to be celebrated in some way during this difficult time. This was concluded by preparing a Roman declaration with the very important contribution of Poland and the countries of Central Europe, the countries that have recently been extended to the European Union, and by the celebrations that took place in March in Rome. The Roman Declaration, which is important for the future of the European Union today, is certainly a helpful document, because it is difficult, but very well, in a very balanced way, to show the institutional philosophy of the European Union, shows very clearly how much the value of the unity of the European Union and the preservation of its scale is. In a very intense debate on the different forms of division or disintegration of the European process, this is extremely helpful. The Declaration very strongly points out that further enlargements of the European Union have been a success of Europe and that institutional unity, legal unity, budgetary unity of the European Union should be a key dimension of reflection on the future. This does not undermine the possibility of shaping the integration process in a more flexible way. This is completely in line with the Polish expectations of the Union, but the flexibility already enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty today must not affect the integrity of the common market, the institutional integrity, legal integrity, the budgetary integrity of the European Union. Only then will it really be the advantage of the integration process, not the problem. The balance between the integrity of the common market and the social dimension of the Union, as I will talk more about later in this speech, was also one of the difficult elements of the negotiations on the Roman declaration. The relevant paragraph is formulated in such a way that it actually reflects Polish thinking on this subject. In short, we would not want the developing social agenda of the European Union to create a dysfunction of the common market and to be a pretext for building institutions, protectionist solutions in the common market. Returning to the regular dimension of this Presidency, I should like to say that a significant change in the political debate in the European Union, including institutional implications, on the Union's migration policy, deserves attention. Malta, as one of the countries that is particularly exposed to the risk of migratory pressure, was of course interested in strengthening the external dimension of the European Union's migration policy, which is in line with Polish expectations. There was a summit in La Valletta, where a programme was adopted on the main dimensions of the European Union's potential external action. They are not limited solely to the effective protection of the European Union's external border. These are also actions of a more offensive nature, i.e. helping the countries of transit and origin of migrants to stabilise the political and resilience of these countries to threats, particularly in the area of security, which is the main reason for migration in North Africa and the Middle East. It also takes into account the launch of investment, economic instruments that would help these countries achieve political, economic stability that would weaken the large migratory pressures felt in these countries. The La Valletta Plan also paved the way for a greater focus on the Central Mediterranean route, which today is a key issue in the European Union's immigration policy, an unsolved problem. The second unsolved problem is, of course, the future of the common asylum system. The Maltese Presidency has inherited a very large package of new solutions for the common asylum policy from its predecessors. This package could be adopted in many areas. Many elements of these legislation are now ready to be considered as appropriate solutions. However, the unsolved problem to this day is undoubtedly the development of mechanisms of shared responsibility for international protection for those who have international standards as regards international protection, asylum protection. Poland continues to stress that all elements of transnational, in this case European, migration management should not is included in this package and that this package should relate only to those things which are widely supported by all Member States. Otherwise, we will be dealing with a situation similar to that of the relocation decisions of September 2015. Some legislation was adopted at the time, but today this law is very little implemented by the Member States. We wouldn't want to lead to this situation on an even larger scale. Nor would we want to bear the political costs of conflict around such a sensitive issue, which is so closely linked to the sovereignty of the Member States. We would not want to see solutions in this area being pushed by force, for political reasons, related only to certain Member States, which do not have consensus. This difference of opinion has led us to see no progress in this important matter. This issue is still, I would say, on the European table and is waiting for solutions that will have greater support than before. The second, very important aspect of the Maltese Presidency's work is all initiatives relating to the common market. We, of course, welcomed with enthusiasm all the political declarations that the right response to the economic crisis in some Member States in the European Union is to make full use of the Community market, that there are areas of the Community market, in particular the market for services, which for political reasons are still an untapped potential for economic growth in Europe. In this spirit, the European Commission started working at that time on an e-card initiative, i.e. solutions that would facilitate, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, avoiding excessive, disproportionate, unjustified administrative costs for business activity and the provision of services across borders, on the Community market. With similar enthusiasm, we addressed the issue of increasing legislative work in a very comprehensive package of legislation related to the digital market. In this area, to a very civil dimension, although with significant economic and economic consequences, it has been possible to establish the content of the wholesale price regulation, which is commonly regarded as a regulation eliminating roaming prices on the Community market, within the European Union. However, at the same time, we have had an extremely difficult discussion on the rules for posting workers, which has been continued to date. This case is still open because it raises a very far-reaching conflict within the European Union. I think that Poland is one of the leading countries that organize resistance against these solutions, which would result in excessive burdens for companies. These solutions, instead of allowing for better protection of work, better protection for those working in sectors where posting is most likely to occur, would actually create barriers on the Community market, on the market for services, which is the most underdeveloped part of the Community market. In fact, the adoption of the original assumptions of this directive would mean a step backwards in building a common market for services, contrary to political declarations, very often extremely strong, about the need to build this market. We look with similar concern at the mobility package, which in fact reduces mobility on the Community market by imposing excessive, disproportionate and unjustified social burdens on transport. With similar mistrust... Well, maybe it's too big a word. We are cautiously looking at the work on the pillar of social rights, which is a document, a proclamation, which can serve as an excuse for the excessive legislative activity of the European Union, the European Commission, in this area. Poland has no doubt that proper protection of work, proper protection of workers and raising social standards in the European Union is a necessity. This government has done a lot in this area. We have no restraint in this respect, but we have doubts as to whether the solutions adopted at EU level at European level will serve these objectives in an appropriate way. We believe that Member States should choose their own social and social protection instruments, in line with their own beliefs, in line with the consensus obtained at national Parliament level. We are convinced that the key mechanism at EU level, which will increase the level of labour protection or social protection, is economic, economic convergence, that is, the approach to the economic conditions of the Member States, which in turn allows Member States to increase such standards. Surely this is not any harmonisation of these social policy instruments, for example, because in many parts of the European Union... This is not just about differences that we can easily see between Central Europe and, let's say, the south or the northerly part of Europe. In many countries, we have a very different system of worker protection and social protection. Very often it is a legacy of many years. I personally do not see the willingness of most Member States to abandon the social policy aspects at EU level in favour of any form of harmonisation. The third element that I would like to draw your attention to is security. And in this case, there has been a development of activities, including legislation, of the European Union in both areas: internal and external security. In the case of internal security, significant progress has been made with regard to the control of the external border not only in emergency situations, but also in the case of regular legal mechanisms that allow not only better control today, but also the better collection and use of data concerning persons crossing the external border of the European Union, both those who have a visa obligation and those who do not have that obligation. In our view, given the state of security of Europe, these are absolutely justified actions. This is also justified by building the confidence of Member States to create visa-free travel with our immediate surroundings. This is very necessary because it is one of the few dimensions where a model of opening up the Union or taking responsibility for the environment is still possible. But it will not be possible when societies are growing in the belief that visa-free travel actually increases the risk of security. That is why we strongly supported and continue to support initiatives aimed at ensuring full interoperability of the systems that are installed at the external borders, so that this information is fully available at each section of the external border. Externally, the June European Council conclusions paved the way for structured cooperation in the field of security, so-called. PESCO. The political conditions notified by Poland and other countries of the region, i.e. political coherence with NATO, the availability of funds that are earmarked for the development of the defence industry for all countries of the European Union, as well as respect for national and NATO defence policy commitments... These political conditions have been met. Today is the moment to make a notification and to fully shape the principles of structured cooperation both in terms of its role for defence policy systems, security and defence policy of the European Union, and for the mutual obligations of countries. Poland is naturally interested in ensuring that defence policy, external security is part of the responsibility of the European Union. However, of course, we are also paying attention not to duplicate NATO's role and to shape European defence policy so that it is complementary... Given the limited resources, this is a very important aspect, but of course political considerations are even more important. We would not want Europe's increasing role in the area of security to lead to dysfunction when it comes to our main security guarantee. By ours, I mean the European security guarantee, which is the North Atlantic Pact. As far as the area of social policy is concerned, I have already mentioned that, in addition to the contradictions that we see in the common market: on the one hand, measures to facilitate entrepreneurs, on the other hand, difficulties that are often motivated by social considerations... The European Pillar of Social Rights, which is still the subject of negotiations and work, is a systemic element. We would prefer that it does not become a convenient pretext for strengthening the European Commission's legislative action in this area. The last aspect I would like to point out is the neighborhood. The neighbourhood policy at a time when it was planned could not have been a substitute for accession policy, although today it remains one of the few instruments of the European Union, the instruments of opening up to the nearest environment. It was built on the assumption that the European model would be so attractive that the countries covered by the neighbourhood policy in the south and east would willingly and voluntarily try to imitate this model in terms of governance, reform, administration and economic model. I think it's underestimated... but today we know for sure that the impact of external factors has been underestimated, i.e. third countries which believe that the real spread of the European model is a type of geopolitical competition. There certainly was no such intention on the part of the Union. The Union has not had such ambitious plans in this regard in a long time, but this is how it was read in the east. This is the main reason why the European Neighbourhood Policy has not achieved its main objectives. It should be appreciated that this first half of the year succeeded with a huge, unexpected, disproportionate difficulty to close visa-free movement with Georgia, what happened in March, and to close visa-free movement with Ukraine in June. However, it is difficult to recognise that in those countries which are part of the neighbourhood policy, we are in full success. All these countries, which are involved in the neighbourhood policy, are under intense foreign pressure and have powerful international problems, including the state of war. Of course, a separate matter is the south, which for obvious reasons was at the heart of Malta's interest. External factors also worked there. The neighbourhood was probably not defined as part of a geopolitical game, but some external factors caused that the neighbourhood policy did not produce the expected results there, did not bring the state we were hoping for, the state of calming our immediate surroundings, our neighbourhood. The idea was that the region should be a calm, stable economic partner. This is how we wanted to build the external relations of the European Union. For some reasons, the southern neighbourhood countries did not follow this path. On the contrary, many of them are in a very difficult position, facing very serious conflicts, so it is very difficult to say that the objectives of the neighbourhood policy have been achieved. This is the reason why today there is an in-depth reflection on the reform of the neighbourhood policy in the south and east. Poland is a co-author and author of many conceptual works carried out before the November Eastern Partnership Summit. We would like these new circumstances that occurred in the east to be properly read by the European Union so that the European Union learns from these circumstances and adapts its tools to them in this respect. A separate issue, which ends well, is to make the ratification process of the Association Agreement more effective for the Union, Ukraine, which also had to rely on the European Council, but the right solutions were found here. This is today the highest level of ambition in the neighbourhood policy. I'm sure it's nothing. Free trade agreements, visa-free travel agreements, including association agreements, are certainly concrete, but certainly the Member States and the South and the East. The most interested are that the Union should have an external impact in some way. They are not satisfied with the level of these ambitions. I'm sure this is it. It is also a reason to focus on how to change the neighbourhood policy in the coming months so that it is more effective against new challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question about this information? I know that Marshal Borusewicz wants to ask such a question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Am I supposed to stay here?]] Yes, yes, Minister. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I intend to continue with some of the themes that have been discussed in your previous report, and I would therefore like to ask what the negotiations with the United Kingdom on Brexit are like. What is the UK contribution of EUR 11 billion per year? How's it look? Do you think they'll pay? Will they decide to do this as part of the negotiations or not? I ask this because it depends on whether the budget of the European Union is to be changed or not. Therefore, it is also up to us to achieve this planned support from the European Union budget or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, you've been through a very serious problem so quickly. Although I am very grateful that you outlined this issue of posting workers. This is not only the problem of transport companies today, it is also the problem of construction companies, which is above all the problem, as experts say, about 0.5 million people. I would very much like you to be kind enough to inform us at what stage of the negotiations we are at and what role our friends have played in this matter, e.g. Czechs, Slovaks, and what role do you play, the President of France, who paid a visit to our friends from the Visegrad Group in connection with this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u26	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj and we'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, in the same thread of social rights. The Minister said Which I agree with, of course. In terms of a kind of equal approach to all social rights in all 27 countries of the European Union, it is probably possible, but in some perspective. But could you tell us in what direction? We are negotiating who do we have on our side when it comes to addressing these common social standards in the European Union? And what time frame are we talking about? We are talking here about not having a negative impact on the internal economic market of a given European Union country by fast, excessive imposition of equal social packages in all countries. Could you please expand this topic a little more?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u28	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u29	Negotiations with Great Britain had their 3 sessions, 3 sessions took place. They have produced advanced results in terms of the principles of the protection of the social rights of citizens of the European Union in the UK and of British citizens in the Union. These are not solutions that fully correspond to the negotiating mandate The European Union, and he is a reference point for us, but there is clearly a great deal of progress here. One of the problems that have not been addressed is how to control this agreement. From the EU's point of view, it is only obvious that the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice is established. From a British point of view, already as a third country, from the point of view of the UK already seeing itself as a third country, this is a very controversial and politically difficult thread, because the ECJ jurisdiction was the subject of interest and one of the important aspects of regaining full control of UK legislation after leaving the Union, so it is understandable. On the other hand, we cannot afford to implement this agreement. In particular, in difficult cases that may cause interpretation conflicts, because we are talking about an extremely retail chapter of the exit agreement. Its understanding was left only and exclusively in the hands of the British institutions. We are talking about an agreement which is an international agreement, so the way in which it is controlled must also be international. A potential deadlock, perhaps a crisis could end with a conversation about financial accounting... Oh, I didn't mention Northern Ireland, it's a very specific thread... Poland does not play a very active role in this matter, we do not have direct offensive interests in this matter. I think that both sides also feel that the political rate associated with the fact that any disturbance on the land border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland can have disproportionate, incalculable political consequences... After all, both sides are fully aware that here we are not just talking about the problem of the customs union. We are talking about the sustainability of the big Friday agreement and the sustainability of the free movement zone agreement. Both sides are fully aware that this must be resolved. Although it is extremely difficult to take into account the initial request of the UK, i.e. the exit from the customs union. The element that can cause an impasse, perhaps even a crisis, is, of course, financial clearance. From the EU's point of view, the financial clearance should come directly from the principles and obligations of a legal and political nature, which were voluntarily adopted by the United Kingdom during the long-term membership of the United Kingdom of the European Union. We wouldn't want to talk too politically, arguing about a round sum. We would prefer this settlement to be a simple consequence of a common interpretation of what happened between us while the United Kingdom was ♪ and it's like, "Oh, A member of the European Union. I believe that this is a common position between the EU and the UK, assuming that as long as the United Kingdom is in the Union, it exercises all its rights and fulfils all its obligations. One of these obligations is, of course, the obligation to provide a Member State contribution, which is indeed very important in terms of the budgetary and fiscal liquidity of the European Union. The moment that comes later will be a critical moment because the EU budget is not built in such a way as the well-known national budgets, i.e. on the basis of just a one-year structure, which has its beginning and end, which is very strictly defined. The settlement of the Union budget shall be spread over time. It so happens that the UK's exit process from the European Union will be exactly at a time when the number of payments will increase due to the many years of accounting in particular for large projects. This is the practice of any financial perspective in which the upsizing takes place at the end of the accounting period. The perspective settlement period, which ends in 2020, ends in 2023. This poses a huge political problem because we need to negotiate a solution that on the one hand will be acceptable from an EU point of view. In other words, it will respect the commitments that are realized in years, but arise in connection with membership. On the other hand, it will be to defend on the other side of the channel, where very often there are extremely generalized beliefs about the UK's financial obligations towards the European Union. This causes enormous political tensions. You can see it now on the British stage. It is no longer a matter of this sitting, but... it is also the subject of the greatest tension, which may even threaten the stability of this office. We will know more about the full British approach on this matter probably tomorrow, because tomorrow Theresa May in Florence will probably present some British offer. But this may mean that we are entering a period of at least very high risk, a very large negotiating crisis, from which there is no easy way out, because neither the countries that are beneficiaries of the EU budget nor the countries that are donors of this budget have a negative balance, which, in short, they pay to this budget, are interested in putting the EU budget under enormous pressure. We need to implement the multi-annual financial framework, we need to do all the programming. Beneficiaries may not be harmed by an act such as Brexit. There is a huge contradiction of political interests here and this is a huge problem. As far as delegated, it is true that this applies to about 500 people, 500 employees... [[Thousands.]] $500,000, yeah. ...in Poland. Poland is one of these countries... Not the only one, though. France is also a country that is posting, but Poland is posting a lot of workers in many industries. [[Transport.]] The most visible are, of course, transport. Which could be covered... today is not the natural situation of construction, care services. This is a large group of people and it is also very serious fiscal interests, because these people are an important part of the fiscal base in Poland. In addition to the systemic aspect that I have already pointed out, saying that these are proposals that really dismantle the common market instead of building it. This is linked to very specific economic interests. I can say that despite the enormous efforts of countries that are interested in making this kind of anti-European return, the Central European countries retain the same sceptical position in this regard. Of course, countries such as Poland, which are large and have a large sector of posting, should be distinguished from those where the sector is smaller. But all countries share the belief that this solution is systemicly bad for the common market. The diplomatic efforts of these countries, which would like to say so, to dismantle a group of countries which oppose these solutions today, do not produce the results that are suggested to us mediaally. The very detailed mandate of the Visegrad Group in this area, relating to a very large number of areas, not just transport, is still important and sets the policy of all the countries of the group at all levels. It is shared to varying degrees but generally shared by all countries of the region. Not all countries are as determined to fight for this case as France is on the other side. However, much can be explained at the end of October, when there will be a first approach... the first attempt to adopt some kind of compromise solution. The compromise in this matter, if you compare Maltese proposals to Estonian ones, goes, so to speak, in our direction, but in a very unsatisfactory way. This is still not the level of expectations of the Central European countries. Although it is also necessary to take into account the fact that perhaps with the exception of transport issues, because here also other countries, the so-called ones. The peripheral geographical situation, such as Bulgaria, Spain and Portugal, is quite similar in this case... Because the introduction of the proposed rules for objective reasons, i.e. because of distance, will cause very large difficulties in offering services across borders, in the common market. Nevertheless, I do not think that we have a clear blocking minority in this case. It may be with the exception of transport, which will make it extremely difficult to dictate conditions. We assume this isn't about dictating terms, it's about seeking a compromise. Therefore, despite the very critical political assessment of what we are talking about, Poland has been interested in seeking an agreement from the beginning. Yesterday, another meeting of the Labour Ministers took place, Minister Rafalska met with her counterpart in France, where she again exchanged opinions on all aspects of non-transport posting. Well, this case is underway, it is one of the hottest and most confrontational topics of the EU agenda today. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] As far as the broader aspect is concerned, i.e. the attempt to harmonise social standards in the Union, there will of course be no harmonisation of social standards. However, introducing elements of harmonisation into individual elements, restricting the freedom of movement of services or people as a result of building social barriers, I think that all this will be with us for a very long time. That's why we shouldn't be doing this. surprise if President Juncker, who has received political support from many countries and from many political groups in the European Parliament, has promised this very openly. He promised a strong policy for the European Commission and promised to strengthen the European Union's social pillar. And in that case, he kept his word. I think this is a very important signal, especially now that we are starting to think about the political process of restoring leadership in the European Commission. This is a very serious signal for those who nevertheless offered President Juncker support in this matter. From my point of view, At that time, at the very beginning of this process I was still in the European Parliament, it was quite obvious that such announcements of a very open social nature would end with such problems. However, many Member States, many political groups, have decided to support President Juncker despite these declarations. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u31	Minister, it is a pleasure to read and listen to what you say, because it is consistent with what you have been doing for many years. And you've come to know yourself as an excellent professional. But I regret to say that many times I see you in roles that amaze me. And that is why I ask the question: since our goal in EU policy is to increase the role of Poland, the importance of Poland and defending our interests, how do you think it is to promote this failure to fulfil our obligations in the field of immigrants, to ignore recommendations and summons regarding what has happened to the Constitutional Tribunal, prosecutors and courts, or to disregard the judgment of the Court of Justice on the clipping in the Białowieża Forest? And finally, Although this is a bilateral issue, but of European importance, the issue of reparation that we are raising. There's more and more in this basket. Tell me how you feel... Not only how this will affect the achievement of our general objectives, but also how it affects already... [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of the time limit.]] I'm almost done. We've heard a little bit here about our ability to build a blocking minority. How does it affect... And what, what are we talking about here, will end for Poland and Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u32	I think that a lasting conflict of interest in the European Union in areas such as climate policy or the availability of the Community market has been accompanied by our membership in the European Union since the first day of that membership. These are not new situations. Thus, it is not justified to easily combine such tensions with the policies of this particular office. We are talking about the problems raised by some countries, including the founding countries, which believe that they can dictate solutions in the European Union more freely, even if they are conflicting with the spirit of the common market, for example, in this case. So this isn't a new situation. I hope that those of you who have followed the fate of Polish membership for the last 13 years remember well that issues such as the common market, environmental issues, widely understood or climatic ones have always been a conflicting element. Because the structure of our economy... Our competitive advantages are different from many other countries and these other countries often have a strong tendency, a strong desire, a willingness to dictate their conditions throughout the Union. Of course, initiatives such as posting workers or mobility in transport are the most clear example of this today. When it comes to the concept of subjectivity and, as a matter of importance, I think that the inherent element, in fact, is whether or not someone is subjective, is to have their own opinion. And sometimes we have a different opinion. We have our own opinions on matters such as judicial reform or action to deal with the crisis that has arisen around the Constitutional Tribunal. And we really don't want to say goodbye just because one person or another, one country or institution decides to announce their own, different opinion. We are ready to have an open and loyal exchange of views on this matter, but in fact, we are not ready to easily adapt overnight to the requirements that we believe are controversial. As regards the specific issue Because these other issues are more general, cross-cutting in nature about Białowieża, none of the Polish government has ever said that it does not intend to comply with judgments, positions or provisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[But it doesn't apply.]] [[Not applicable.]] However, it is true that the Minister of the Environment considered that the understanding of the safety clause included in the provision on the safeguard measure was different in Warsaw than in Brussels. And that is the subject of a judicial decision. If we have a judicial decision on how to read the security clause, we will have more clarity on this issue and we will be able to build such a bold thesis that someone in Poland does not want to comply with judgments or rulings of the Court of Justice. That's not the intention. [[Safeguard measures must be respected.]] Yeah, except this safeguard measure is formulated... Maybe I wasn't clear. This safeguard measure is formulated in a way that allows for different interpretations of the safety clause. And that's all that's at stake. Minister Szyszko has repeatedly, I think, mentioned publicly, also in the Polish Parliament, that he understands the security clause differently. Indeed, it understands it more than the European Commission understands it or perhaps the Court. We'll see about that in the next few days. [[And what's it gonna end with? That was a question.]] But what? [[What's the end of these conflicts?]] [[Voice from the room: Success.]] You're asking about the future? [[Yeah, that's what I asked.]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a discussion. There's gonna be a discussion.]] I can tell you what our intention is, because predicting the future is a risky thing. And our intention is to keep Poland's membership in the European Union as comfortable for Poles, for the Polish country, for Polish entrepreneurs, which has been so far. And we wouldn't want to drive... I mean, we wouldn't even want to agree to this situation or keep quiet if the terms of the game, for example. in the common market, they will turn into a disadvantage. Let's just say that this is changing, and we're looking at it, smiling and accepting and thinking that's the spirit of time. No, that's not gonna happen. I think that membership, full membership of Poland and every other country in the European Union assumes that the country has the right to express And it should do this to what he has expectations, what opinions he has and what he wants from the European Union. Membership should not be regarded as passive sitting in one or the other room and hearing about solutions that are built by someone else. We actually have a different opinion on both. [[Mr. Minister, there are specific proceedings going on. What's it gonna end with?]] You know, the proceedings before the Court of Justice against Poland for the last 13 years have been about 500. I do not recall that any of them aroused so much emotion and was the reason for building as thick as this one, concerning the case of the Białowieża Forest. [[But it's a section of over 100-year-old trees.]] This is not the first and not the last. If you look at the statistics of these proceedings, you will see that the most such infringement proceedings have none other than the Federal Republic of Germany. You can live with that. [[Applause]] [[We'll see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Włosowicz will ask another question. [[The Germans take over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. The first is about funding... [[I'm gonna write this down...]] ...the European Union. In the last term of office, the idea was to move away from national contributions and move on to financing from external duties as well as VAT. [[The Germans live well.]] Is this concept being developed? Is there work in this direction? That's the first question. And the other. We often talk about more union. One of the elements of this is the Schengen area that we use. Unfortunately, two countries that are members of the European Union... Among other things, Romania and Bulgaria, which have external borders, are not members of this zone. And in recent weeks, and even days, three countries, namely Austria, Germany and the Netherlands, have, unfortunately, spoken very hard and negatively about the possibility of joining the two countries in the Schengen area. I would like to ask for a comment on whether or not to anticipate further work, to analyse what will be the future of this zone. I think that these countries should be joined to the Schengen area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u35	Poland considers that there are no reasons today to block the entry of Romania and Bulgaria into the Schengen area because both countries meet all technical requirements. The only obstacle facing these countries to the Schengen area is political considerations. They concern several countries that are in the Schengen area and whose societies, and certainly politicians, see this kind of enlargement as something to reduce the level of security in these countries. This is a very shallow debate, unsupported by facts. In the case of Bulgaria, we have, say, a layered de facto presence in the Schengen area due to air traffic. Of course, it would be good if we could just close this case. Political considerations, e.g. hindered the easy ratification of the Association Agreement with Ukraine, making this process frozen by some countries today. Perhaps the electoral cycle in Germany and Austria will allow it to unfreeze the issue, because pauses, when it comes to the accession of certain countries to the Schengen area, are unjustified. As far as contributions are concerned versus own resources, the discussion is alive in each debate on the next financial framework. It would be comforting from the point of view of the European Union if we did not have to negotiate this whole package in such difficult conditions, only in a situation where the flow of money to the European Union budget would actually be conditional on what the Member States want, what they want. There's a reason I don't think that's likely. The enlargement of the European Union's own resources will not take place quickly because, no matter how pro-European rhetorical the individual Member States apply, they do not want to release such an important element of influence and sometimes control of the integration process as part of the common budget. Therefore, the contribution mechanism, in a sense the mechanism applicable to each international organisation, will remain the main mechanism for supplying the EU budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Czarnobaj's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will return briefly to the question about the social pillars that are being discussed there... which are also introduced suddenly, too quickly, also in Poland, which are a certain threat. I wasn't asking about Mr. Juncker's attitude. I was just asking him that. If the Minister could say anything else about it, that's fine, and if he doesn't, that's fine. Do we have any conversations on these levels, whether we have allies and what elements you see the Minister of Threat in? And in the second round, I'd like to ask you this question. Minister, you spoke of security in the sense of joint action with NATO. Could you tell the Minister a few words about energy security? The report mentions the so-called. the SOS Regulation. Could you give the minister a little closer to the subject, please? This is the first... Please mention this as if in connection with the Nord Stream II element. Has something changed in this direction during the Maltese Presidency or not since the last meeting when the Minister presented these issues to us? Because it was not, as we read, included in the priorities, but this topic is important for Poland, so if you could tell the Minister what stage these matters are at, I would ask very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u38	As regards the distribution of votes in the debate on the social pillar of the European Union, it is not obvious. On the one hand, of course, the Central European countries, which have their model, usually a slightly more cost-effective model of social policy, are the main group of countries which oppose the excessive legislative activity of the European Commission, which actually leads to minimal restrictions on the Community market, to creating obstacles to competition in the Community market. But countries that have a very deep, strong and often somewhat distinct acquis in terms of building their own social policy system, such as Sweden, are also not interested in the European Commission being too active, because this could end in the fact that they would in turn have to change from a completely different perspective in their own social policy system, in terms of the very design of the architecture of this system, in particular aspects, often very specific, and in terms of the scale of this system. This is the reason why Scandinavian countries, which is paradoxical, also look at it with caution, without denying the political sense itself, without denying the reasons why the Union can act in this area, so perhaps there may be some conditions arising from the common market, while these countries are also cautious in this matter. So this is a wide range of countries. This discussion took place cross-cuttingly on the occasion of the Roman Declaration, because it was much more there at first, one could say, a courageous paragraph concerning social Europe. The anchor is very clearly inserted in the form of maintaining the integrity of the common market, i.e. that the development of social legislation or some social standards does not cause disturbances to the common market, which is an obvious area of tension. I should point out that... [[And the time frame? Are these or other frameworks being discussed, Minister?]] The pillar will probably be accepted as a proclamation in the coming months. The proclamation is political and it would not be good if it were interpreted by the Commission, one or the next, as a substitute for the legal basis of the Treaty for legislative action. In my opinion, there is such a risk. The whole topic will always be with us, because this topic will never, I think, be closed. There is a mobility initiative in transport that has a strong social aspect. We've got deputies today, here and now... These things will come back to us. I should point out that the Maltese Presidency has successfully closed negotiations on a regulation on security of gas supply. It just slipped my mind. This is an amendment of the 2009 regulation, which is going very well because mechanisms for a joint response to a possible supply crisis This is crucial in particular for our part of Europe, where the supply crisis is possible due to the instability of one of the gas trading partners. So that strengthening the mechanisms within this common response is of course beneficial to us not only because of security as such, but also because of the commercial position, because the resilience of the gas market is clearly building a better commercial position for those who are customers in this market. As far as Nord Stream II is concerned, today the European Union will have to deal with this issue. In addition to other elements that have a more bilateral dimension Because the idea was to build the legal basis or legal regime for Nord Stream II on the basis of an international agreement. The first step now is to form a negotiating mandate for the European Commission. This mandate should, from our point of view, be an ambitious mandate. In short: the international agreement of the Union-Russia, if in this format this agreement is to be signed It cannot be an instrument to circumvent EU law, but must be an instrument to implement this EU law. The Polish position vis-à-vis the mandate will be maintained in this spirit, i.e. we will want this mandate to address all the systemic elements of EU law in the area of security of gas supply, in the area of the gas market, in the area of the energy market, so that this agreement If the agreement is the solution here at all, and we do not exclude it, we do not say good morning that it was a sufficiently hard element, i.e., as I say, an element implementing Union law, and not opening the door to the fact that we have one part of the infrastructure simply excluded, i.e. it will only affect the European market, and so there is no doubt that it will be part of European infrastructure, and yet, as a result, for example. failed negotiations or failed agreements, it will be excluded from the rigors under which all other investors, entrepreneurs, suppliers must act. From the point of view of competition, too, it would be unfair if one part of the market had certain different terms of play than all other parts. In this market there are a lot of companies, a lot of entrepreneurs, this is a market that is supposed to be increasingly competitive, so setting a level playing field is important. not only from the point of view of our specific security problem, but also from the point of view of the purity of the market game in this specific market fragment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This statement on the Nord Stream II and the possible basis for the construction of this gas pipeline on the international agreement bothered me, because our aim is probably the state that is at the moment, i.e. the absence of Nord Stream II. So every gate, every tool that can even The possibility of building this pipeline is, from our point of view, unfavorable. How can we be sure that even if we give very far-reaching guidance to the European Commission and make our demands and expectations clear, the European Commission will take care of them and treat them with due care? So maybe just the lack of this pipeline and the absence of an appropriate agreement would be the most beneficial for us. [[Voice from the room: What's the question?]] Question... That's the first question. The second question concerns the issue of reparation. Is there any contact in EU legislation with the issue of reparation for World War II which Poland rightly demands from Germany Isn't he here? So to put it simply: can we, using EU law, in any way increase our chances of getting these reparations, or is it the right that reduces these opportunities for us? The third question concerns what is mentioned in the report, namely the European Union Agency for the Environment. Asylum. Well, it can be seen, as is the case with this previously mentioned agreement, as another attempt to implement something that most European Union countries actually disagree on or at least fail to implement. I'm talking about forced relocation of refugees. But it has to be done with other tools, just another tool that will be excluded from the current influence of the will of the Member States. Do you see this danger, i.e. That's the idea: if forced relocation in its present form didn't work out, then we're trying to do it another way?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u41	The asylum agency has a much longer history than the migration crisis. She acts as an ancillary to the Member States, so that does not change the legal regime as regards a certain freedom of Member States to surround the international protection of those who require it. So here I don't see any systemic threat unless this agency's mandate is changed, but this requires the approval of all states. As regards the interaction of European law with the problem of reparation, there is no such contact. As far as Nord Stream is concerned, of course, it is desirable that Nord Stream does not arise because it will deform competition, it will actually prevent real competition in the gas market, full competition in the gas market, at least in this belt between Tallinn and Zagreb to the Elbe line. This is an investment from the point of view of the objectives of the Energy Union, the European Union's systemic objectives completely meaningless and contradictory. We see that so far, the European Commission has been very reluctant to carry out its duty to enforce EU law against Nord Stream. For various reasons, the European Commission has not taken any proactive action on this issue over the years. We have received contradictory signals from various Commissioners in this area. Today, with such a passive position of the European Commission, the only real and significant obstacles to the implementation of this investment are on the one hand the business limits of the individual investors' willingness to pay for such an investment; this is an obstacle that I think can be overcome. On the other hand, these are political obstacles, still blocking the start-up of this investment. In this sense, negotiating a mandate, which will be ambitious, could be another element hindering the implementation of this project under the conditions that Russia or the Russian investor expects. This is very important for the success or failure of this plan. It is not that investors, in particular from the pro-European part of this consortium, are willing to pay any money. They have their shareholders, they have other ventures. The setting of clear rules of the game, in particular as regards the use of this infrastructure, will have a significant impact on the profitability of this investment. In this sense, This is to strengthen the European position vis-à-vis the passiveness of Brussels vis-à-vis Nord Stream, which we have seen for years.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u43	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering my first question. I'm an entrepreneur. For many years I have worked in the economic self-government. I am... These concerns are very strong when it comes to transport and construction companies. I'd like to ask you something, Minister, because perhaps you have that knowledge. Was France, so to speak, posted, authorized to be in these difficult conversations against, say, a minimum of 0.5 million of our employees? That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to know why Germany is so strangely silent on this very important matter. I've been following you pretty closely... On the German side, there was never the same signal as France. And one last question. Minister, did Nord Stream II block only Poland, or are we standing by other countries on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u44	With regard to Nord Stream II, Poland is the most visible and loudest country, in particular as regards expectations of the European institutions. Our ability to block this investment directly is limited. There is much more to be said by countries through which economic zones, territorial waters, this investment will take place. They're not always capable of such offensive actions. We have legitimate expectations for the European Commission and the European Union, in particular as regards the enforcement of European law against this investment. Although this investment is largely not going through the economic zone of the European Union, its economic sense is linked only to the European market. So you can't assume that this is something that is actually beyond this legal order, because the whole sense of this investment, that is, the transmission of gas, is 100%. dedicated to the European Union. So there is no reason to abandon the enforcement of EU law. With regard to the role of France, it can be said that France has delegated itself, has placed itself in the role of... [[Alone?]] Alone. I think that the European Commission's initial proposals were based on completely sincere declarations and announcements by President Juncker, who probably has such beliefs. Given his political path, it can certainly be said that he has always been on this side of chadice, which had a social dimension. However, it so happens that the whole initiative has sort of hit the electoral calendar in France, where various topics have been sought which, in a civilised, non-xenophobic way, could dismantle tension on the ground of the influx of migrants, including from Central Europe. In this case, there are many parallels to the British case. It was considered that building social barriers is a very civilized way to say nicely that we simply do not like the common market. If someone speaks directly, like some other French politicians, that he does not like the common market and that it is a bad idea at all, then the conclusion is very sad. Right? Such that we should get out of this market and stop being exposed to competition from different sectors, different industries, different countries. European candidates who played the European Charter, such as President Macron, certainly could never afford such a frontal attack against the European process. Therefore, the project, which also affects a relatively small part of the economy and our exchange in the European Union, was a very handy tool that could be used as a flagship electoral promise, which is causing us trouble today. Because if someone makes a flagship election promise of some sort, it is very difficult for him to show flexibility in the negotiations later. It's natural. And today we really need this flexibility, because we can't work out a solution without it that everyone will be happy with. Germany's attitude in such cases has always been much more reticent for two reasons. First of all, the German economy is developing well and benefiting from competition, in the common market. If German economic governance is focused on something, it is precisely to cross the borders of the common market and move towards a global economic role. That is Germany's position today. Therefore, these little things don't make anybody sleep out of their eyelids. Silence in this matter is unfavorable for us. Under normal circumstances, I think it is necessary to show political support for France because of the huge crisis we faced during the elections, when France was given a question mark as to the future of the European project... This calls for some political sympathy for the current President of France and does not make it really easy to find a compromise on this issue. In some cases Germany supports the French position. As for the delegated ones, we are counting on Berlin to reach an agreement in the final round as well. It is about a proper compromise, a proper balance between what is and what is not justified in this area, because the interests of the German economy are clearly contrary to these proposals. The second element, apart from the fact that Germany is in a different economic situation than we are, is the fact that the German economy is largely linked to Central Europe, as well as Of course, this isn't crucial. On the basis of the posting of work, and that the effects of restrictions on the movement of persons, the movement of services will clearly be felt in Germany. This is the position of German business. In this regard, the BDA adopted a position which is quite clear and which says that it should not experiment with the common market in order to approach even the most noble expectations, such as protection of work or anti-abuse. We have no problem talking about combating market abuse because this is happening. There are abuses in every aspect of the labour market. We are ready to cooperate internationally in this area, but we cannot conclude that abuse is an excuse to close the market. There's also a place for an agreement that we're all waiting for.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u45	I'm sorry. Minister, information on the position of the German party It would really be worth the publicity. Because entrepreneurs are most afraid... I'm talking about... I am a border man and I know that entrepreneurs are most afraid of how the German side will behave in such a situation. [[What border, Mr. Senator?]] Polish-German, Mr. Senator. [[Political.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, You probably know these voices because you read the press and probably listen to the opinions of some specialists. The opinion that Poland in its relations with the European Union is an isolation policy is becoming increasingly common. For my own use, I call it the policy of an offended princess who argued with everyone, talked to everyone, said something bad about everyone, and eventually she was alone. It seems, to be quite serious, that we lack pragmatism in Polish politics. There are comparisons here, for example, with Hungarian policy, orbán's policy, which, although it is also quite strong... there are not many friends in the European Union either, but in the most important matters for Hungary he can communicate with other members of the Union and in various places he is looking for allies. So that I would like the Minister to refer to those opinions that appear because I share these views. Second thing. I would ask the Minister to tell you what successes so far, over the last two years, have brought us such policies and what successes we intend to achieve in the next two years in terms of taking care of Poland's interests in the European Union. The third question which relates to what I said concerns the preservation or presence of government representatives, i.e. Polish ministers, meetings with representatives of the European Union, contacts with European Commissioners, etc. I ask, because there is an opinion, I could give examples. The people who are visiting the institutions of the European Union at the moment, these are most often employees of the lower ministries, they are not able to make decisions at important meetings, consult everything or return with nothing, without taking decisions on behalf of the Polish government. Even on the occasion of the last presence of the Minister of National Defence, Minister Macierewicz, at a meeting with Mrs Mogherini, it was said that this warm welcome by Mrs Mogherini was due to the fact that Minister Macierewicz was so rarely present in the institutions of the European Union... [[Mrs. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. ...because he's been sending sub-level representatives so far. I'd like you to take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u48	There's a lot of opinions. I can accept them and at the same time say that I just don't share them. I am not complaining about any special shortage of contacts with representatives of the European Union. I think that in recent months and years we can be absolutely satisfied with how the Union meets our expectations on issues such as Brexit, completely essential. We have been through a difficult moment of mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, the recently mentioned regulation on security of gas supply fully meets our expectations, the decision on transparency of contracts in the energy market fully meets our expectations, the Polish demands are being met, so this is a caricature. I understand that publishing requires drawing with a very thick line even very small details, but it doesn't work out, does it? If you use a marker to draw something more complicated, it doesn't work, it just comes out a stain. And that's what I find to be a stain. This also does not help to understand the meaning of European policy. At the same time, I draw attention to the fact that, of course, there are things about which we have differences of opinion and sometimes conflicts of interest. Only that this conflict of interest in matters such as the budget, such as climate policy, energy policy, the common market, the rules of the game I'm not saying that all of these are narrow areas. This conflict of interest has been with us since the beginning of membership, so please do not tie it to this office. All in particular years SLD, Civic Platform and PSL governments, today's PiS They're struggling with the same problem. The European Union is, contrary to the declarations, a place where business struggles, sometimes more conflicting, and should not be offended. You just have to find a role for yourself, your way of expression and nothing more. Nothing out of the ordinary about this case happened. As far as the attention to the degree of representation is concerned, it is very difficult for me to refer to it because it has been said in general. It is true that there is a political and regulatory process in the European Union at very different levels, so sometimes a minister is needed, sometimes a deputy minister is needed and sometimes a department director is needed. There's nothing unusual about that either. You just mentioned a person whose power in the Polish government seems to have no doubt. I mean Minister Macierewicz. His rarer existence, his rarer presence in the European Union does not result from his own will, but from the fact that the Ministers of Defence meet very rarely, only on the occasion of a specific format of the Foreign Affairs Council. Heads of diplomacy meet more often in this area. Today this is more required because we are preparing for structured cooperation, for PESCO, but I do not see any obviousness here. On the other hand, I see the publicist momentum of those who formulate these opinions, which, in my opinion, are quite far from the truth, although maybe they fulfil some other tasks. Maybe they're in a different way... [[But I've asked about success yet.]] Excuse me? [[It was a question asked under you. Please list the successes of the last two years.]] I mentioned we were... [[Because I don't think we're talking about Brexit that it was a Polish success. It wasn't a success at all.]] I talked a little bit about what Polish interests are about when it comes to Brexit. Right? Our business was to effectively counter this process. And in this matter with the Union. with the Union, not with the United Kingdom, because this is another topic We found a common denominator, a very well balanced common denominator. And then, much more importantly, we found a common language with the Union in terms of the course and organisation of the negotiations. This is very important from a Polish point of view. I think this is one of those big cases that's obviously a success. We can celebrate the unity of opinions of Brussels and Warsaw against these caricatureal images that we sometimes see. I mentioned the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. It wasn't an easy process. Everyone who has gone through this process in different perspectives knows that this is not an easy and obvious process. We're past that. I also mentioned at least two legislative processes that had ended in our day, fully responding to our expectations. It is a decision on the transparency of gas contracts and a regulation on the security of gas supply. There are more such things, so I do not see any qualitative change here as regards the reception of the Polish point of view in the Union. If we're dealing with collisions There's no need to hide that there are such collisions. These are collisions that have been going on since the beginning of our membership. Nothing will change here because they stem from immanent differences in our geopolitical position, the state of our economy and where we see competitive advantages. And it gives you the results I mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u50	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as you may remember, I am already the second term chair of the Senate Group on Polish-French friendship and therefore France and relations with France are very much in my heart. I'd like to ask who's responsible. How did it happen that in France, one of the main forces in the European Union, at such a crucial moment that you spoke about here today, i.e. when they were formed, probably as you rightly pointed out On the basis of certain internal business choices... Why was there no ambassador for over a year despite such a complicated situation in France? Why after such an outstanding representative as Mr. Orłowski and after a very prominent ambassador who has proved himself in several countries, Mr. Byrt, at such a crucial moment I'm also asking who's responsible for this. There was not a competent person enough to represent us there, so that at least in this regard there would be no gap created absolutely by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? And I would like to ask with all due respect to Ambassador Mlynarski how it is that an ambassador has been appointed in a country that is so crucial to our relations with the European Union, for which it is the first institution at all. I don't understand intelligence and knowledge, but there's experience. In such a complicated situation for more than a year, we have no representative, and right now there's a person we don't really know if he has diplomatic skills or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u51	The good news is that the Polish ambassador in Paris is in office and has gained a positive opinion from Parliament, so I understand that this is at least some basic guarantee of his preparation for this function. As a rule, the Ministry does not comment on personal issues. It's hard for me to get involved in these kinds of issues, in these kinds of personal considerations. This is particularly true for me because I am responsible for the issues concerning the European Union and not for this issue that you raised. But the general principle is not to comment on personal issues. I would point out that the ambassador is already in Paris.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Czarnobaj once again.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If you don't mind, I would like to ask you for some information about the project package "Clean energy for Europeans." As we know, the Polish air, generally speaking, is one of the worst in Europe. Of the 50 most polluted cities in Poland, the EU's cities are probably 26 cities... [[33, Mr. Senator.]] It's even 33. Oh! So this is certainly a problem for Poland, which should be solved from a health point of view. But, of course, on the other hand, it's a matter of quick transition, how fast... I'm mostly interested, Minister, in whether we have any conversations on this subject and if we have allies here. Is there any possibility in this regard of the financial envelope? Because you know it's gonna cost a lot of money in some perspective. Do we have any chance of doing so and what does this problem look like in terms of relations between Poland and the European Union, the European Commission? How are we perceived in this regard? Are we left alone, plus demands, or can we count on help in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u54	Air quality in Polish cities is not related to the energy production system. The energy production system has been subject to very strict environmental standards for many years, including in Poland, when it comes to catching any pollutants that are also associated with coal burning, except CO2, because it is not detected. But when it comes to all things that are harmful from a health point of view, they meet EU, very high, very high and very expensive standards. Air quality in Poland... low air quality in Poland is related to other processes and this is what the whole anti-smog policy, which is patronized by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who not only designed a package of solutions together with the Ministry of the Environment in the field of air quality improvement policy, but also seems to me that it was a matter of the last few days that protected money to achieve this goal both in terms of improving the quality of fuels that are burned in particular by citizens, households and technologies used for this purpose. So it is a matter of our responsibility. But this name can actually be misleading.... Pure energy for Europe is the marketing name of the winter package. In total, it's also a marketing name. In some areas, several projects are in line with the Polish expectations and evolution of the Polish energy system, and in several areas they are critically incompatible. This critically inconsistent aspect is, of course, a technological standard for the use of the power market. Poland is precisely a country that is currently shaping the power market as part of the reconstruction of investment capacity in energy. This is the instrument we chose as the right instrument, so this is a rather critical issue for us. The second issue is how to manage zones, the regional energy market and build a regional energy market. Here with very many countries, including Germany, we are presenting amendments It's still in the early stages. . which aim, however, to maintain greater control over how the energy market is shaped. From a social point of view, the most important aspect is, of course, price formation. But that's not the only aspect we're interested in. These are certainly the 2 key threads of this very comprehensive package, which today are the subject of a certain tension within the Union. Of course, this tension is generated by several countries, i.e. at least several countries have doubts about such a way of managing the market.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! One observation, if you please. Low emissions... Transport emissions probably have a big impact on air quality, but I want to assure you that coal burning in power plants, coal burning in electricity production in the so-called. medium power plants also have a huge impact on air quality in Poland. It's just a matter of dispute... Because you said it was a completely different problem. This also has a huge impact on air quality in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u56	But it's certainly not a determining factor. All these installations are covered by really high environmental standards of the European Union, all these installations have had to make very high expenditure in this area in recent years in order to prevent such side effects of coal from entering the atmosphere. I think we have full clarity about the decisive elements of air quality, especially in cities. This is the consequence of the lack of antismog policy for a very long time. It's changing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u57	It's changing. And I want to inform your senator that there will be a conference in November with the mayors of these 33 cities... [[When?]] In November, under the patronage of Marshal Karczewski. You're welcome to join us. Senator Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Our job is to... First of all, we work in the field, meet with Poles and Poles. As you know, we've been changing retirement age since October 1. Therefore, I would say that there is some criticism on the part of our country on the part of Brussels, on the part of the European Commission. The people ask us why Poland is so criticized on the part of Brussels. My question is: are other countries also criticized for such decisions, for this shorter retirement age? E.g. in Belgium, after 35 years, you can enter the retirement age. Netherlands, Portugal, and even France... That age is 62 years old. Are these countries criticized for having such a retirement age? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u59	The primary source of tension around retirement age was the Law on the system of common courts, in which, in the event of retirement, a retirement age was introduced in relation to judges. It is very difficult to raise a charge of discrimination here, because this is the harmonisation of the age at which you can retire, with the retirement age, which will be universally applicable in Poland from 1 October. I think there may have been some misunderstanding here. The European Union or the European Commission does not speak on the I think so; maybe I missed something. The same retirement age of one or another, which can be shaped in accordance with the social policy of the State. The tension that has arisen concerns the distinction between the retirement age of men and women. Poland in this respect in fact, it is probably the only country that has restored this distinction In line with the announcement of the ruling party, the effects of the so-called. reform 67 will be reversed. It's the only topic that's being discussed. Of course, it would be better if he didn't go politically... [[There are positive opinions about...]] I understand that opinion, I've heard that opinion before. It's the only thread that's causing some tension. He'll be explained.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u60	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a request for the Minister. In a way, you're releasing the genie from the bottle, talking about the war reparations. And there's an irresponsible man about to turn over Szczecin to the Germans. For the record, I am a senator from Szczecin and Police. It wouldn't be weird, because there's freedom of speech in our country... Only this man is a frequent guest on government television, on public television, where he is particularly admired by one of the editors, perhaps Rachonia. It seems that the only one who spoke on this matter, and rather locally, was Marshal Brudziński, who said that this person was balmed in his head from excess yerba mate. It seems that the Polish government should react unambiguously to this kind of foolishness, because at the moment the end of the election campaign in Germany and at least in the districts of Okręszczecinski Alternative für Deutschland, i.e. the extreme right-wing party, raises... I spoke to one of her representatives personally. He said, "You have taken away our lands, so give them to us, and we will pay you reparations." And the Russians took your land. Why don't you ask them to give these lands away? There's a brawl that's a typical example of who's sowing the wind picks up the storms. I think the resort should respond to this in an appropriate, diplomatic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u62	No, I have a completely different opinion. With all due respect to one or the other editor, neither the government nor the department can express their views on the publicist opinions expressed in a television programme... [[On TV, now the government speaks.]] ...or to assess what... This is of no relevance from the point of view of state policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u64	Minister, is it true that during your visit to Bulgaria, Prime Minister Bojko Borisov said that he was opposed to the sanctions imposed on Russia?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u65	Prime Minister Bojko Borisov has been sceptical about sanctions against Russia for years and months, not since yesterday. This case was on the margins of a press conference. He is not the only Prime Minister who maintains such an attitude and shares his doubts about the effectiveness of the European Union's sanctions policy. However, it must be noted and appreciated that Prime Minister Borisov, like the other leaders of our region who have a sceptical attitude to sanctions, has never led to the European Union's unanimity on this matter. And that is all we expect from our closer and further friends in the Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u66	Thank you very much. Senator President Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you as Minister for Foreign Affairs regarding the Minister's opinion on how Poland is perceived in the context of certain decisions from the point of view of the European Union. Isn't that in our national interest? From the Minister's point of view, what is the position of e.g. the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on tree clippings in the wilderness, the great commotion across Europe, in which I think we are losing a good opinion? On the other hand, we want to build a gas hub. From the point of view of diplomacy, should we not focus on some important issues, but try to stop them at certain moments? Isn't it more important for us to have a gas hub than a forest section?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u68	One thing with the other has no connection, because whether Poland will be a gas hub Or not, depends on the success of the Baltic Pipe project. And in this project, everything is happening as best as possible in terms of relations with the European Union, which has a certain impact on this project, but above all in terms of our relations with Norway and Denmark, which are very important for this project. Whether we're going to be a hub also depends on the development of LNG. Thus, this has nothing to do with any dispute, any conflict of legal opinion in one of the tens of cases that occur before the Court. I wouldn't underestimate the importance of this kind of thing. As I said, Minister Szyszko has never taken the position that he does not want to respect the Court's provisions. He understands them differently and presents his legal reasons in proper procedures, nothing more. Nothing out of the ordinary happened here today.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u70	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I watched the speech of the President of America, Trump, and he mentioned two countries with regard to the embargo. Yeah, it's known as North Korea, but it's also Iran. We are in a parliamentary Polish-Iranian group, we have some relations today, there are even attempts to visit two sides. What does it look like when it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Do you share the opinion of the United Nations President of America, our friend?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u71	In this case, you must ask for the opinion of Minister Magierowski, who, as I say, is responsible for this part of the world. I cannot speak on matters for which I am not responsible at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I will refrain from expressing any wisdom in this matter. [[I know, Minister, that you have the greatest knowledge in this ministry. Thank you.]] [[At break, you'll ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u72	I would like to remind you what item we are discussing. This is information for the Sejm and the Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland... [[I remember, Mr. Marshal. I remember perfectly.]] ...in the work of the European Union in the period from January to June 2017 I would also like to remind you that we are planning to finish the session either on Saturday or on Tuesday, because we will definitely not finish by tomorrow. Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to refer to the answer you gave to Senator Stanisławek. You said some things were separate and some things didn't affect the other. Well, it's not like that. Previously, you were talking about how certain interests are getting out of hand. You probably know better than all of us here what diplomacy is all about: if there are 10 or 20 problems on the table and there are 15 more, then in order to solve these next issues, nothing is done in these most important cases. I'm not exactly satisfied with your response in this regard. I'd also like to ask you something. Greece and Italy in terms of refugees are in a situation where they are not at fault. We can argue what it is, whether it is more French or German, but it is Italy and Greece who are here to blame for the spirit of God. I had a chance to be in Greece. In the Council of Europe, I meet with Italian parliamentarians. By accepting our point of view... Taking even the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding relocation... There is quite a far-reaching anger over our attitude, which contradicts a certain European solidarity within the European Union. And I would like to ask you something in this context. What does our diplomacy do to talk to Greece and Italy about it and to ease the situation? Have you taken any steps lately? That's one thing. Second. What initiatives did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs possibly take or participate in? It is about initiatives that could lead to blockage or assistance in blocking immigration. On the one hand, disappearing, so to speak, Libya as a country... I have no doubt that this is the main problem in Italy's case. In addition, the behaviour of the Turkish authorities, which have shifted this huge number of migrants towards Greece, is also a problem. Meanwhile, I see in the European forum that Polish parliamentarians from Law and Justice vote together with Turkey, i.e. they are in a minority who votes in favour of Turkey in all matters or problems, including those relating to human rights in Turkey. I'd really like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u74	I think that the European Union must have created and created mechanisms that really force everyone not to shift tensions from one case to another under any circumstances. If this mechanism had not worked and if we had easily transferred tensions from case A to case B, C and D, the European Union would have stood overnight. We would not be able to deal, first, with political issues, second, with legislative issues if we could so easily pass on the anger that everyone is experiencing at a certain point. I could share, too, if I were a more emotional person, with all my bad emotions, I could tell you what I'm upset about one or the other leader in the Union. It just doesn't make any sense. Anger is bad. Keeping that kind of emotion is bad. If we start moving our tensions, the ones we have with one or the other capital, or even with Brussels, to other things, it's just gonna happen. And I think that every responsible politician in the Union understands that it is important to avoid this because it is a very bad model that will only cause damage. Only damage. I mean, we have to keep one thing clear and make sure she doesn't infect other things because we need each other in every case. And even if there is tension and some negotiating pause in a case, it should not hold back the political process of the Union as a whole. Poland behaves according to this rule. We encourage all others, including those who are angry one day or another, to follow this golden rule. As far as Italy and Greece are concerned, I think that ten times, in various forums, there was a very clear and non-confrontational Polish opinion on this matter. We acknowledge that due to the circumstances and experience of historical social opinion, which also does not come from nowhere, we are unable to undertake any division of refugees from the Middle East. But, considering... This crisis does not directly affect us in any way, but nevertheless we are ready to take part in European solutions in all other areas. This is the reason why, above all, we have led to an increase in humanitarian aid in that part of the world. This is the reason why we willingly agreed to form an agreement with Turkey, which is also not free, which also requires contributions from the Polish budget. It is not entirely clear that the Polish budget must be charged such costs, because we have other needs that are, so to speak, much closer to the body. But, as I believe, there is no controversy in this one, that Poland should act proactively in this matter. In recent weeks, the Minister of National Defence has increased Poland's involvement in Operation Sophia in the Mediterranean. In recent months, the Minister of the Interior has increased It's a permanent process. The involvement of the Polish police and border guards on those sections of the external border, which are not ours, for which we are not directly responsible. And we are willing to continue to build this policy model in order to compensate for this inability, dislike or other political position with various other measures that should be called European solidarity. The fact that there has been a lot of political tension around it is due to some political logic. It's kind of understandable, I don't want to be offended, but it would be better for all of us if we just came down from this political tension, say, and adopted solutions that work. In some ways, the allocation or relocation solutions did not relieve anyone and even if they were made 100%, they still would not relieve anyone. In turn an agreement with Turkey, a potential agreement with Libya, when there will actually be some reconstruction of power President Macron is doing a great deal of good in this case. These are agreements that will bring relief. These are solutions that will give Europe the feeling that we are restoring or restoring control of our own destiny in this difficult issue, the social consequences of which are incalculable. And according to the logic of free democratic discourse, different people tell different things about this migration and it would be good if there were no such reasons. So I think that this message is fairly clear and logical. And I think it, under peaceful conditions, is understood. Politics has rights, so we'll probably be meeting with some emotions for a long time, but we're still offering a pragmatic compromise on this. He could be the basis for reforming the European asylum system in such a way that everyone leaves the sitting room happy. And that, I believe, is the main objective of the European process It's that everyone leaves the sitting room happy, not just part of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u75	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u76	I'm not hiding that it's gonna be questions, not accusations full of doubts. Minister, what's the truth? Is what you say is that there is a conflict of interest in the European Union, or what your colleagues say, especially ministers, that there is a game of officials who dictate, impose, arrest, impose penalties? Second question: what is the Polish state's reason for today? Is this an iron curtain on the Bug, with economic consequences, spending 200 billion PLN on orders that will be carried out by President Trump, and with the philosophy that every country can do what it wants and how does it feel? Is this faithfulness to the Treaty of Lisbon of the European Union as an alternative? Or is this the third solution, still promoted, that Europe needs a new hand in cards, a new deal, which is highlighted in particular by the government? Thank you... Oh, and the third question. Poland participates in all bodies of the Union, in the European Commission, in Parliament and in the Strasbourg Court. Why, then, does Poland, which stresses and acknowledges this, not want to respect these three institutions, judgments or judgments, the opinions of these three institutions, rejecting a priori their wording? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: What institutions?]] Well, it is the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the European Commission and the European Parliament, which are unanimous in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u77	These institutions have very different natures. The European Parliament is a political body... [[I know that.]] ...and it is difficult to expect that the European Parliament will dictate the conditions of legislative work for the Polish Sejm and the Polish Senate. We, in all respect for the European Parliament, do not accept this arrangement of institutional relations. The European Parliament has the right to deliver political opinions, but this does not mean that any Member State has an obligation to follow such or other advice or opinions as presented by politicians in the European Parliament. The European Commission. It's hard to talk about judgments in this case, too. The European Commission is the executive body of the European Union, our executive body, so all we expect is, of course, equal application of the law. If there is a very strong conviction of the European Commission that, for example, focus on state aid rules in Bulgaria, Poland or Germany, we have the right to expect the European Commission to apply law to initiatives such as Nord Stream II with equal commitment. I do not know whether this is due to such or other work of officials, from such or other creativity of officials, or from some more serious reasons, but certainly the role of officials in the process of the EU, in the European Union, should not be underestimated. I think that sometimes political imagination would be a more valuable clue than such a highly rachitic, passive, procedural approach to matters of a political nature. And the case of the Constitutional Court here is a very good example - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. [[No, no. The European Court of Justice, which has...]] Now I was talking about the Commission, and I am about to move on to the European Court of Justice. There is no provision or judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union which would be disregarded by Poland. In one matter that focuses your attention, as well as the public's attention, we are dealing with another. ♪ Only and only ♪ . understanding of the safety clause. No one has ever said, on behalf of the Polish government, that we are not prepared to comply with orders and rulings of the Court of Justice. As regards the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Poland has greatly improved the implementation of European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg in recent years. They have a specific, slightly different character, i.e. in a large part they concern the slowness of courts, which is, as you know, one of the main reasons for the reform of the justice system in Poland, as well as the reform of the system of universal courts. So we can hope Yeah, hopefully, I'm not saying that you're sure, but I'm sure we can hope. That this problem, which Poland is facing most intensively, is the problem of effective complaints and judgments related to the slowness of government offices and common courts in Poland will simply disappear. [[What about the previous questions?]] The question about the Iron Curtain on Bug... I'll admit I don't understand. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Senator Czarnobaj...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u78	No, no, Mr. Marshal, if someone doesn't understand, then you have to let them understand. That's the way it is. The point is that Poland is currently choosing a political, strategic direction. This could be building a steel curtain, or actually a rocket curtain, on the Bug line, which is directed not only... well, above all against Russia. And it is as if it is an alternative to integration or strengthening European integration, along with, of course, building defence plans, etc., etc., with economic consequences, procurement, licenses, purchases... And the third solution, which is suggested rather by Prime Minister Szydło, i.e. that Poland... that Europe requires a new hand of cards, that it is to be national, other than the current official, dictating, imposing penalties. And we demand... These are the words in the discussion about the new shape of Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u79	The debate on a new shape of Europe is being demanded by almost everyone. Pay attention to President Macron's speech in Athens. It has been a long time since there has been such an offensive speech that would undermine the institutional order, calling into question what the Union should be doing and not doing. And in the coming days, we will have an appendix for the one that I think will be even more ambitious as regards this new institutional hand, a new role for the Union. So that Poland is no exception here. Perhaps it was the first country to say, as a result of Brexit, that something does not work in the Union, that the Union needs reform. But I think the camp of countries that demand reform, one way or another... It is a separate matter that this process will take a long time because we need to agree on what reform we want. But reforms demand an increasing number of European leaders. Poland is definitely in good company here. And when it comes to defence policy... [[Does this include... Poland... the fact that Europe can be a few speeds?]] Well, that's another topic. What do you mean, a few speeds? How so? We... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I was talking about it at first. I don't think there was a senator back then. For us, the baseline scenario is to maintain the institutional, legal, budgetary unity of the European Union, because it is... It's working. This does not mean that we are blocked and reject any discussion about the flexibility of the Union, as it is understood today. Today, the European Union has flexibility mechanisms. PESCO is an expression of flexibility or a very important aspect of strengthening defence policy. Enhanced cooperation itself is an expression of flexibility which does not adversely affect the cohesion of the Union. But if someone on this background wants to build a scenario in which the Union is really divided and instead of one we have five, then of course he will meet with the opposition of Warsaw, not because we are afraid for our position, just because it is simply There's a very bad idea. No European problem will be solved by five Unions, small, medium and weak, instead of one. One Union has problems with... these problems that we're supposed to solve, like trading positions, protection of the socio-economic model, etc. It's not easy. If we share, we'll have more problems like this. Thus, Warsaw's position is very clear. As far as defence policy is concerned, this is not an area in which I should speak too much, I will only say that as a result of the adoption of the Union-NATO agreements at the Warsaw Summit, of which we were very pleased, but also as a result of the adoption on the EU side of purely certain systemic solutions in terms of the perception of NATO and the Union in relation to the development of defence policy, we today have no alternative: to choose between the missile defence system based on the adaptation of Eastern NATO and, of course, the defence capabilities of the United States and the Union. We are doing everything we can to ensure that such an alternative never appears, that the European Union, together with its development of defence capabilities, with its role for the defence industry, its role in shaping, planning purchases, European defence capabilities... so that it is always complementary to NATO. So we're on the antipods thinking in terms of an alternative. We want it to be one system, because at the end we're one camp, no matter what we think. This is the West. There are countries in the Union that are not in NATO, there are countries in NATO that are not in the Union. It's clear. But that can't put a stop to thinking in terms of just the West. We have common security interests, and all of us should make up for these security interests with what they have, and so should the Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u80	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, for my part, one last question, if you'll excuse me. I would like to ask about a case concerning possible aid for Poland, aid related to damage caused by storms, hurricane in three voivodships: Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Wielkopolskie and Pomorskie. This is obviously not related to this reporting element, but if the Minister were kind... I think in one of the interviews, Minister Błaszczak said that we are preparing an application to the European Union for assistance for victims. Is he even out there on the wallpaper, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u82	Of course yes, Poland should be supported in countering the effects of natural disasters of this kind, so we will try to use this instrument, just like any instruments that are within our reach. But here are two problems to overcome. First of all, there has to be a very thorough assessment of the damage, and, as far as I know, she is not finished, although she is responsible for the MMA, so I don't want to definitely... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Secondly, the minimum threshold must be met because not every type of natural damage can be covered by... If these conditions are met, the application can be expected to be granted. We are currently in the process of preparing such a solution. [[I have one question: are you talking about the global value of all the plagues that have occurred in Poland?]] Yeah, yeah. [[Thank you.]] This concerns the effects of one event, because here the essence is that this one cataclysm brings specific damage. [[It's about one event. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u83	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u84	Thank you very much. Minister, you didn't actually answer my colleague, Senator Grodzk, to the charge of Szczecin, about the fact that he's scared of people there because he would gladly commit himself to Szczecin... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: No, it's some kind of editor-in-chief, we don't scare.]] No, no... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: On the contrary.]] No, no, I understand that in the same spirit... However, I would expect an answer from you, because I believe that the Polish Government should answer or take a stand. I come from an area where people still remember the action of the Vistula. They haven't been around long. Believe me, I've dealt with these people and they've started renovating their homes and living their lives. They continued to fear that these lands were not theirs, and that somebody might take away their land and their homes. So tell me... What would you advise me to say to those people who are afraid that 72 years after the war may... Once again, they're scared of being taken away from them or... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: But, excuse me, who's doing this?]] Well, Minister... [[Public television.]] Minister, yes, public opinion very quickly... [[Public television.]] But, Minister, you live in Warsaw and you talk about it from the position of Warsaw. I am talking about the fact that there are a lot of people in my constituency who still remember the action of the Vistula and who gave fear to their children, their successors. It grabs very quickly, very quickly goes into the ether and it's enough that one, with an apology, fool will say it and it's accepted. However, Minister, I would expect from the government that he will take a stand and these people will calm down at least a little bit, because there is concern, a particular concern that he may be deprived of...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u85	It is very difficult to take a stand on a completely obvious matter for all those who know anything about it. If I were to agree to a situation in which the Foreign Office or even the government is to take a stand against the opinions of the publicists, we would not leave here until the morning. Honestly, I don't even want to comment, and I certainly don't feel like taking a stand for opinions, exotic opinions, one or the other publicist. Well, everyone does it on their own responsibility, under their own name, and anyone can judge it the way they want. I have my grade, you have your grade. I think we have a consistent assessment on this. But let us not really involve the authority of the government to comment on public opinions, because they are in Poland, to be honest, more and more colorful. So there will be more and more reasons to take a stand. Right? We're gonna be crazy about this. [[Applause]] [[But these opinions are changing because they are very, very welcome. They're on public television. These are not isolated cases, Minister.]] As far as I know, the case in this case is completely isolated. This is a completely single case, but even if it wasn't a single case, I really don't think anyone could build any reasonable hypothesis on it. This is simply the colour of publicistic life in Poland. That's how we take it.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u86	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u87	I'm gonna ask you my question right now, but about what Senator Shark said... Minister, you should be interested in public television policy on foreign affairs and relations with the European Union at all, because I believe that You may not share this, but it is worth checking, because often different people share this view. At the moment, public television conducts very fierce anti-German, anti-refugee and anti-EU propaganda. I think this is exactly the kind of thing you should be interested in, at least on a foreign level. I'm gonna go back to the questions I asked earlier, and I'm gonna ask you more specifically. I will ask you why Minister Jurgiel rarely represents the Polish government in negotiations on a matter as important as the common agricultural policy. This is the first case. Second thing. Why I refer here to previous questions In the absence of Minister Macierewicz, the representatives of the Ministry of National Defence have no instructions. It happens very often. They just don't take part in conversations, they don't take sides and they don't represent our positions. They just sit and listen. I think this is a waste of time. Next case. I would like to ask if there will be any change regarding participation in the financing of Eurocorp. That's a pretty specific question. One more question. Will the Polish government defend And does he do it now? The allocation of regional development funds? I ask you to tell us what our position is right now, what we are doing on this issue and at what stage are the Polish negotiations on the EU budget for the next financial perspective at the moment. Please respond in such a specific way. What do we expect? What will you consider to be a success, and what is the failure of the Polish government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u88	As for the degree and manner of representation of Poland at individual meetings, I can only promise to look into it. Please accept with sufficient distance all information from closed Council meetings that appear. There are no outsiders who can observe this process, so it may be that someone thinks something or that someone has reasons to present it as caricatureally as you put it here. I can tell you that as far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, This concerns questions about the CAP and regional policy Today, at Union level, we are at a very early stage in the process of negotiating the next financial framework. Very much depends on how the settlement will be with Great Britain. But that's not the only reason. Everything was shifted by the European Commission to make the calendar look a little different. I can only say one thing: the Ministry of Agriculture, as part of our own preparation and shaping of our own position on the multiannual financial framework, is one of the most resolute resorts, because it is in fact responsible for a very important aspect of the EU budget, which will be subject to change. I have no sense of a deficit of opinion that comes to us from the Ministry of Agriculture as a coordinating department for this work. I have no reason to believe that the Ministry of Agriculture behaves passively in this case in any other group, because it behaves extremely actively here in Warsaw. These are circumstantial evidence going in a completely different direction. The CAP and regional policy, cohesion policy are obvious, key benchmarks in shaping the Polish position towards the future financial framework. It sounded very strongly on the occasion mentioned by me. I have the impression that very often not noticed in Poland. The negotiations on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. Nothing changes in this case. The structure of the Polish economy and the structure of the Polish beneficiaries of the EU budget have been the same since the beginning of our membership of the Union and it is difficult to expect a sudden change of the accents in this matter after Poland. What may prove to be an important new accent is the fact that Poland is already effectively building the ability to raise EU funds also from those areas which have been neglected so far. I mean innovation, research and development. The Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Science have done a great deal to prepare Poland to be the beneficiary of these parts of the budget, which can very much affect the final Polish position on this matter. Government positions on the next financial framework should be expected much later when negotiations begin. Today there are no negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, so it is difficult to talk about them. Similarly, there are no negotiations on the shape of the common agricultural policy. When they begin, Poland will be prepared to present its position which, in the context of other discussions that are taking place today, is, I believe, very consistent with the position of a group of countries which... They usually took a very similar position on this issue. Eurocorp is a MON issue, so please don't expect me to have any opinion on this. [[I am sorry, but it is very important from the point of view of European policy that we participate in or do not participate in Eurocorp.]] I understand, sir, but you're responsible for this. [[Minister Macierewicz...]] I can't take bread from other resorts. [[But the minister doesn't answer questions. You know very well that... you just don't answer questions.]] Which question didn't I answer? [[About Eurocorpus. I mean, not the Minister, but...]] I told you I wouldn't answer because it's someone else's responsibility. [[It's not the Minister. It's just...]] [[Not you, the other one...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u89	I'm sorry, I'm sorry... [[Yes?]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I have been very liberal about the questions you've been asking... [[But this is not about the debate.]] Let me remind you about the debate... And now I'm not going to allow questions that aren't relevant to the debate anymore, because we've been tormenting the Minister for two hours now. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome. [[We're not tormenting anybody, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I won't bother you, sir. [[It's not torture. It's work.]] What about the trade tax? There was a decision on 30 June, and this is still the reporting period of this report from the European Commission... There the charges were upheld in full, and even extended, in relation to the commercial tax. Are we going to sue this decision or have we sued it? If so, what do we raise in our complaint and if not, then why not? Or is this decision still ahead of us? And the question is whether it is reasonable to challenge this decision, whether it is simply appropriate to adopt a tax which could be introduced in the sphere of trade without the Commission's intervention, e.g. non-progressive.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u91	Any tax may form the basis for creating a plea of violation of public aid rules or unequal treatment of gestors in the common market. It was the European Commission's bones against the original version of the commercial tax. This case is likely to end at the Court because the way the European Commission understands this particular case is by way of conclusion, a kind of conclusion. The aim of the legislator was not to differentiate entities, because Polish entities would have to meet the same conditions, the rules of the game as regards the burden of taxation as foreign entities. Other Commission positions suggesting that this conflicts with the principle of equal status of small and large operators in the common market may also be examined before the Court. We just have a different opinion about this. It did not block work on other forms of taxation, but it will be possible to talk about these things at a time when they will be more advanced. Another resort will inform you of this if such a decision is taken.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Boris-Damięcka... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, one question and a specific answer...]] [[But don't bother the Minister.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u93	Has the European Commission's decision of 30 June been contested or not? Are we gonna sue her?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u94	As far as I know, this decision has been challenged. I'd have to check... I don't remember it because it doesn't apply to the report, so I don't have it in my head. I can check it out and give it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u95	Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u96	Thank you. I'd like to get back to the Bialowieza Forest's issues and problems. There's still a kind of ping-pong... It's said that we're going to be punished. Sooner or later, a decision will be made. I would like to ask, Minister, if, within the Ministry, the Polish government is aware of possible anticipated amounts of the penalty that will come to our attention. The material received by the European Commission shows that this cut is still ongoing and that no sharpening is respected. Are such conversations ongoing, wondering who will cover the costs which the Polish state will consequently... I can, of course, say to myself, "Possibly taxpayers." Is the Polish state on such sums that will not be lowest, prepared? Where's he gonna get that money? What's your prognosis? I ask because from the public media we hear that it is such a scare by the European Union that it is not a chance to happen quickly, that it will take years and so on. Public media are kind of ignoring the subject. And what if it explodes at some point and costs have to be borne? What is the Polish State's view on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u97	I'm sure there's no sudden explosion in this case, because as Foreign Office, we control the entire process of legal vision. Of course, the Ministry of the Environment is the leading department in this case and it has full knowledge of what is at stake in the main issue, and the main issue is whether or not the actions in question in the wilderness are acceptable and necessary. In this case, of course, we have no opinion, because this is a question of dendrology. As far as the legal aspect is concerned, of course, we share the responsibility for how this is going to happen. I don't think we have any perspective on financial penalties right now. We have a dispute about a case that is connected with this, that is, a safeguard measure, an understanding of the safety clause, and in the coming days there will be a ruling in this case. However, in the main case, the decision will take place in accordance with the procedure, depending on whether or not it is decided to adopt an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u98	I think it's over. We've exhausted the questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you.]] I inform you that the Minister has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I listened with interest to the Minister's speech, but I cannot agree with what you said. First of all, I cannot agree with the idea that there have always been problems in specific areas of cooperation with the European Union and we have always had a different approach to, for example, posted workers, the social package, social dumping or allegations of social dumping. Yeah, it's always been. I remember that in 1990, when I was president of the "Solidarity" in Gdansk, I went to Germany to take part in the discussion and to say that the union representative did not support the position of the German unions who raised this issue, the question of the fact that the Polish posted worker is cheaper. This case, of course, was somewhere in the scenes, discussed, but it came out, within the European Union became a problem under the rule of the PiS, under your rule, Minister. Something's changed. I am talking about the case of posted workers, as well as the work of transport companies and drivers. Why is this happening right now? Because Poland lost its position, the negotiating position, the position in which it could find allies, in fact in all matters. After all, this is the most important thing in the European Union. There are conflicts of interest, but of course everyone is looking for their allies. It is never that a country, even the strongest, is able to impose everything. [[The Germans are imposing, Mr. Marshal.]] Well, for now, there's a discussion going on. [[But the Germans are imposing.]] There's a discussion going on for now. That's your position, but there's a discussion going on. If they could impose, they would have imposed it by now. No, they can't impose. Poland's place in the European Union has changed. Well, from a country that, like I said, found allies, we became a country that fell into isolation, and this is connected not only with this conflict of interests, but also with what is happening in Poland. Poland is subject to the rule of law control procedure. We have become a country that is criticised because of the changes concerning the Constitutional Court, the General Court and the Supreme Court. This is a problem that affects all other issues. The refugee case. Well, you say, like the government, that no one is pursuing these arrangements. It's supposed to be 100,000, and there's twenty-two thousand, so nobody's He doesn't do it. But we don't do that at all. This is not an argument which is important from the point of view of other countries or the European Commission, because we are in this group, which does not implement these arrangements at all. We do not want to make any arrangements on this issue at all. It is good that we have recently declared that we will give EUR 50 million to support. That's good, 'cause when I heard we were giving, we wanted to give or should we give money to help where there's a source of trouble That we should go in there and support these people. We've been giving about $3 million, certainly less than the Czech Republic. And now this situation is getting a little better. Let's see how this 50 million euro works. Minister, we've fallen into isolation. It's clear to me and to the observers. We've lost the good reputation we've worked hard for many years. It is also a problem of the future, because it is easy to lose a good reputation, and it is very difficult to rebuild later. As far as services are concerned, we will probably lose the fight to amend this directive and a significant part of these 600 000 Poles will have to return to Poland. We'll probably lose the transport, too. We've tried to compromise, but let's not count on others. Let us look at the issue of implementing the judgments of the European Court of Justice. Minister, you said that the Court interprets this and that Minister Szyszko interprets it differently. But the site isn't from interpretation. The court is from interpretation, and as the court will interpret, so will it. Unfortunately, this example shows how, in some cases that do not have, it seems to have no relationship with one another, this relationship is manifesting itself. Well, in fact, Slovenia has stated that it will support this, for a completely different reason, because it is about the Gulf of Piraeus and Croatia's decision, which also stated that it will not take into account the judgment of the European Court. But back to the subject, let us ask what it means to say that we will not implement the judgment of the European court. This means that what the government is doing here, changing the constitution illegally by ordinary laws and saying: "It is all right, we are obeying the Constitution, you are trying to transfer it to the European level. And I'm sure the European Commission will not agree to that. What's left for us? What remains of the government? Well, various lunar ideas of the type of Intermarriage built on the Visegrad quad, in which in relation to relations with Russia and Germany, there are views from Sasa to Las. In fact, Russia's greatest ally in this part Europe is the largest ally of the PiS party, or Orbán. Putin made his eighth visit to Hungary this year. Bulgaria is also against sanctions. You say it doesn't mean anything, because decisions are important, but it might start to mean something at some point. These are just declarations at the moment, because Germany is behind all this, France is behind it, and above all, the United States is standing, but this can change. What kind of a community of interests do we have in this situation? Only on one level do we agree: not for refugees and nothing more. The only ally we have in this part Europe is Romania, which has a similar foreign policy, which sees similar risks and has similar potential. [[But the refugees accept.]] The four Visegrads, when it comes to fundamental matters for us, including Russia, have different views at the moment. We don't have any allies there. The intermarine is a pre-war idea. She made sense then, in the Second Republic, when we were between two totalitarians: German - No, German in the 1930s, of course. And Russian. And then, of course, it made sense, because something had to be built between these two growing in strength and increasingly dangerous countries, but right now we have the European Union. Many observers are assessing what an alternative to the European Union. We're building it. In fact, the PiS government is building it. But you can't see any special desire to join in. Bilateral relations have been completely broken, broken by breaking the contract at the caracale. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Now. [[13 minutes...]] And now the issue of war repair is breaking up with the Germans. I mean, it's obvious it's a case that's over. It's over. [[Mr. Marshal, three minutes after...]] Why is it used? Why go back to that? As for the issue of repair, I have serious concerns that if we repeat this, at some point extreme voices, even with AfD, will be heard from the German side and will say what we fear: reparations, please, but the Western lands you have received... [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is a very dangerous road that can lead to a challenge of our western borders, and that would be fatal for Poland. If you don't see it today at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... Anybody do any analysis on you? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The next speaker is Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Such a debate every six months about the European Union, the role of Poland in the European Union and the problems of the European Union is perhaps one of the most important debates, and certainly important. I would like to apologize to the Minister for tormenting him for so long. Mr. Marshal asked us not to bother anymore... I think our questions, Minister, stem from the fact that we would like to participate in the discussion process. I know that the Senators of Law and Justice, apart from Senator Czerwiński, have no doubt about what is happening in public space and what is happening in the European Union. This inquisitiveness stems from the concern and attempt to speak on this important topic of the European Union, the role of Poland in the European Union, the future of the European Union and how Poland's interests in the European Union should have been understood. That is why it is so important to try to answer the question of what the European Union is. I have the impression that often in public space, especially political space, it is presented in such a way that we are us, and the European Union is something completely different. After all, studies show that Poles generally advocate being in the European Union, in favour of being an active member of the European Union. By comparing the European Union and Poland to such family schemes, it can be said that Poland is such a small family, and the European Union is several families with common roots. And that is why speaking with such a negative colour about the European Union, which often happens in the public space of this political, especially in the issue of law and justice politicians, is dangerous. Personally, I was very pleased to say this during the Minister's previous report, and I am also saying it now. I listen to the Minister's position and, as I understand it, the Polish Government on many issues relating to the European Union. However, I have the impression that we live in two worlds: one is the space that the Minister spoke of in a way... We may disagree with some things, but this shows that the Minister sees what is the problem of the European Union, sees the problem concerning the European Union and Poland and their relations, relations. But if the European flag is removed in public space, and a very significant Member speaks of the European flag as a rag... I no longer want to repeat all these other terms, the words in which the European Union is spoken. It's pejorative, it's terribly bad, and the fact that I say it doesn't add up... I am making a conclusion, Minister, although I would like this not to happen during the term of law and justice: as the Minister will leave the ministry because of his health condition, this will mean that we are a lonely island of freedom in Europe. And this will be a signal for all Poles that the time for Poland's participation in the European Union is coming to an end. Because you can declare in a political way: "Yes, we are in favour of the European Union." But if you're doing something else that he was talking about here, among other things. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, this is a clear signal for Poles, or should there be a clear signal for Poles that being Polish in the European Union may be at risk. After all, the Prime Minister of Great Britain did not want to leave the European Union either, and he led to what he had done. I would also like to say a few words about what the Minister said, namely that it is possible to live with it. That's to live with these conflicts. These conflicts, i.e., I understand that one thing is done, and one thing is said differently, and one is in constant conflict with all the countries of the European Union, so that we can be the best island of wisdom, freedom, national freedom and... well, there are still a few other words that can affect our country. But being in constant conflict isn't successful. He has already said it, once again, Mr Marshal Borusewicz: we are becoming people alone in the European Union. Any kind of problems we've been asking about, issues of posted workers or other issues that you've been discussing here... In a moment we will be alone in these matters, we will fight like a lonely white sail against other countries that will say we are sorry, but we are not on our way. Because this is not the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. I'm addressing an empty room on the part of the Senators of Law and Justice. Just taking money. It's not like... [[Two in jail.]] [[What do you mean we're not in the O.R.?]] Well, I hope, Mr. Senator, more will be in jail, but for now, two. [[You're miscounting.]] [[There are three, Mr. Senator...]] Three. Well, counting Mr. Marshal. Four. [[Let the senator speak.]] Exactly. The European Union is not just taking money. 'Cause if we need help, For example, today I asked about possible financial assistance for people who have been affected by storms Of course, we have this opportunity, we can use it. But as it comes to confessing the common values of a family called the European Union, values such as respect for the courts, such as the respect for the judgments of the Court of Justice... Well, I understand that the Minister must somehow explain to Minister Szyszka that the Minister otherwise interprets security... Minister, this is a very dangerous road. Because how do I explain that the accused who was convicted by the Polish court will say that I understand it differently and will not carry it out? Well, that's the road to nowhere, not respecting the three divisions of power. And all that you do, what the Polish government does in Poland, is meet with a huge protest in the European Union. So don't be surprised that we'll be alone in a lot of things. You told the Minister that emotions cannot be transferred to the level of the European Union. Well, Minister, I'm signing off on this. But don't you really see the minister of these emotions? Emotions, frustrations, I don't know what else they are. directing Which leading law and justice politicians are transferring to the European Union level? If we are talking about the fact that we expect it to be one Union which also respects some flexibility, as the Minister said, we will not be able to protest in the defence of the vital interest of Poland in a moment, as the Minister said, that the Union should be a homogeneous body, not a union of a few speeds. Then those for whom we say. Okay, fine, but we must be flexible, they will say . Be flexible, there will be five speeds. Finally, we need to decide what policy we are adopting towards the European Union. And if the policy of conveying emotions, insulting ourselves, not respecting the common values of the European Union is a policy of the Polish government, it is a very dangerous policy. Thank God, once again, that, as we have heard in the report today, not in all elements is a bad attitude, this Polish attitude towards the values of the European Union, in general members of the European Union, has a reflection on the issues that the Minister has spoken about, and this is comforting. If we continue, in order to achieve all the objectives that the Minister spoke about in his speech and which are recorded in the report on Malta's six-month leadership in the European Union... We cannot wage war against all the institutions of the European Union. I think everyone understands that diplomacy is not done through public television and that public television is not from doing foreign policy. This is really a very delicate, confidential mission of people who have the competence to do so, who have the skills and knowledge to do so. If the whole project were in the hands of the Minister, I would be completely calm about what concerns Poland's relations with other countries of the European Union. If what was being moved here today... The West Pomeranian senators moved this. If we apply to our neighbor for reparations and on public television Mr. Minister, you probably haven't seen this program. There is a discussion going on and a well-known man, a sympathizer of Law and Justice, expresses his opinion on Szczecin and the inclusion of Szczecin in Germany in exchange for repairs, this must cause concern. The Minister is right to say that these emotions should not be shifted to the government level, but it would seem appropriate for anyone on public television, if not from the government, to react to this matter. These kind of bullies, to put it mildly, should not be shown on public television. At a non-public informal meeting with Aunt Zosia You can tell stories like that, but on public television, which has a mission that should inform the public about the government's actions, not just the stumbling of the opposition... There are two countries in Europe that... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. This is Russia and Poland. These are countries where public television primarily deals with opposition. Showing in a curved mirror of Polish-EU relations... We say that we are the victims, and at the same time we take the money and apply for help. And when there is a problem with posted workers, we want, and rightly, to succeed so that we do not get out of the market. Let us not be surprised, however, that in a moment we may be as lonely as a white sail. Minister, I wish you didn't have to leave because of your health during the rule of law and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u102	Senator Augustine will speak now. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I asked what the purpose of our presence in the European Union is for the government to pursue. It seems that they are quite clearly articled, including by the rulers, also by the Minister. We want a significant place in the European Union, because we understand that a large part of Polish interests can be realized. This was due to a number of questions Only in the group, including the block we're in. It's in our best interest. But there are several conditions that need to be met in order to fulfil such a mission towards Poland and Poles, so that Poland is strong in the European Union and can pursue its interests. The first is to be credible. There is no question of making any alliances with anyone, building support for Polish positions, if there is no elementary credibility. Unfortunately, what the Polish government is doing is hitting on this foundation, which is the most important in the Union, Minister. It's in credibility. Because can there be a reliable country that first agrees to something and then doesn't realize it completely? Can there be a credible country that agrees to respect certain fundamental values of law and a democratic country and then creates a law that completely ignores these values? A country that also ignores the calls of its partners from the European Union, using absolutely false And this is about the highest representatives of the state of argument? I have the impression that, speaking to your electorate in Poland, you forget that in the case of matters that are the subject of debates in the European Union, you simultaneously speak to our partners, who know how it is. And they hear the prime minister, and they hear the president, and they hear the minister, who say in their eyes that it's completely different than it is. Can this country be credible after that? Can he be a partner for someone after that? Who's gonna be reliable? The one who ignores the judgments of the European Court? The One Who Lifts For internal use, we all feel it to cover things up. The issue of reparation to our largest partner in the European Union? You are playing foolishly with the affairs of Poland. Minister, maybe you can live with that. As Szymborska said: without this love for the Union, without this love for Poland and Poles one can live. But it has a price, because Poles want to be in the Union and want to benefit from it, but for that you need skills and credibility. There isn't one or the other. That's why I asked: how much more and what do you want to add to this basket? What will it end with for Poland and Poles? Well, first of all, it's going to end with what you said to the marshal and my previous speaker. I'll try to show it a little differently. We all know across Europe the saying of someone who's starting a fight, who still wants something else, who's a product in the family. Someone called Black Peter. Well, we have the first chance to build the unity of the European Union on one issue, on Poland We're going to be Black Peter. If we're referring to this childish game... As you know, Black Peter is the one no one wants. Nobody wants to confess to him because whoever confesses to him loses. And we're getting there slowly. We can put our alliances between fairy tales if that's what we're gonna do. Nothing you can say... Even such an excellent, I dare to call you that, Minister, a diplomat will not be credible in any way if we act as we do now. Therefore, calling for such an attitude and thinking that the conflicts that we are causing around Polish cases should not affect each other, should not induce actions in other areas, is merely wishful thinking, because in fact they induce it, Minister. And you know very well that it will be difficult for us not only to maintain our position, but to take care of our interests in terms of budget negotiations with Brexit both now and in the next perspective if we do so. This also applies to many dozens of other cases. We have done so many times, Minister, before the European Court, we, which is the law, we know that we know that the cases are in the Court. But we tried to regulate them as quickly as possible in line with European expectations, because we considered those expected to be legitimate. Even if they were uncomfortable for us, even if we waited as long as we could, we finally realized them. However, it never happened that we would question these judgments. This is a whole new situation, which shows that hitting credibility is the result of a reckless policy addressed to Polish citizens, which concerns our place in the European Union. It's terrible. Finally, Minister, it is impossible to live with this, at least at such a level, with such respect, with such rights as we once had and which we no longer have today. There will come a time when Poles who want to be in the European Union will understand that it is not possible to live with it, and they will show to those who do such things to us all the right account. I hope that at some point you will understand that the line behind which there is only evil has long been crossed in relations with our partners in the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u104	Now you have the floor, Senator Klich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u105	The biggest curse of Polish history, Minister, was our loneliness. When we were alone, we were usually despised first and later subjected to power. The curse of Polish history is loneliness in Europe, but also loneliness in the processes that take place on our continent. President Kaczyński recently presented a real diagnosis of what the foreign policy of Law and Justice, which is conducted not for foreign use, but for domestic use, is leading to. I will remind him of his words, this is a quote: "Even if we remain alone in Europe in certain matters, we will remain." This is a diagnosis of the current state of Poland in Europe. Poland, which you systematically turn sideways to the European Union, forgetting that Poland is a member of the family of European countries, forgetting that Europe is in Poland and Poland is in the European Union. Perhaps this is how the words are implemented, which I must also mention here, and which appalled the public in March this year. Minister Waszczykowski, after a match with other European countries lost 27:1 said: "We must drastically reduce the level of trust of Poles in the European Union. We're gonna have to drastically lower our levels. Minister Waszczykowski said so. It is one of the highest levels of trust in Europe. Because Poles trust the European Union, research has shown for years that it is above 80%. Why do you need to reduce the trust of Poles in the European Union? Why do you need to turn Poland aside to the European Union? That's the question many of us have been asking for a long time. At the same time, when I say 'nas', I mean not only opposition politicians, but I also mean experts, I also mean the average citizens who are attached to Europe and who believe that one of the three historical achievements after the fall of the commune was the introduction of Poland into the European Union, by the will of the nation confirmed in the referendum. And that one of the greatest achievements of Poland was the development in the European Union of such a position that Poland boxed in a higher league than would indicate the strength of our muscles. Because let us be honest: our vote was more important in many matters than the voices of countries with similar population or geographical potential. I'll give you an example. The future of the common security and defence policy is one of the most important topics discussed at the moment in the European Union, and the prospect of creating a European defence union is that of which the Minister knows very well, because we have already discussed this in this Chamber. And this is a perspective that seems very close. After the Sunday elections in Germany, this prospect will probably come even closer. I was very pleased by what Minister Szymański said here halfway back, i.e. that we will not protest this strengthening of the CSDP. I was also pleased that Minister Waszczykowski supported the strengthening of the common security and defence policy at the summit. But support is fundamentally different from creativity. Something else is an initiative in a given case, and something else is to only sign it. In this respect, I compare our initiatives from 2009 to 2015 when we co-created this strengthened security and defence policy with the French and Germans, when we did everything we could to convince others in a time of crisis to move forward when we had the initiative taken into account and presented This can be read in both Weimar letters with a passive statement I am glad that there is no "no," I am glad that it is "yes," but we expect you, from the Government of Law and Justice, to be more involved in these matters. This is a specific time for the European Union, in some areas the Union will move forward quickly, it will move out of the hoof. This area is certainly the European Union's external security, and I have no doubt about it. This is the area of integration in the euro area I have no doubt about that either. Many also insist that internal security and, in particular, counter terrorism should be such an area. In all these matters, the Polish government should show an initiative comparable to that of other leading countries. But this loneliness of Poland, which can already be seen on the horizon, does not only apply to the European Union, because it also applies to our main partner in the East, Ukraine. What is the reason that none of the important governmental, seym or senate personalities from the governing circles appeared in the Polish-Ukrainian forum in Rzeszów? What is the reason why President Poroszenko thanked the Lithuanian Prime Minister, the Latvian Prime Minister, the Estonian Prime Minister, the Slovak Minister for Foreign Affairs, for helping someone from the Czech Republic to abolish visas for the Ukrainians in the framework of the security forum organised every year, which brings together the most important representatives, the Ukrainian elite, and the President Poroszenko thanked the Lithuanian Prime Minister, the Latvian Prime Minister, the Estonian Prime Minister, the Slovak Minister for Foreign Affairs. Because on the very day when the security forum was held, the European Parliament approved this decision But President Poroszenko had no one to thank from the Polish authorities because none of the Polish authorities were in the Chamber? And so far they've been. What is the reason that Ambassador Jan Tombinski, who did a gigantic job during his embassy in Kiev for several years, a gigantic job in the most difficult times, because it was the time before Majdan, the time of negotiations, the time of Majdan himself and the time of bloody events in Kiev, and then the creation of a new democratic elite in Ukraine He hasn't even been asked in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about his experience? As if no one was interested in the experiences of the ambassador of the European Union, who spent such moments in Ukraine, gigantically engaging in... Read not only the opinions of some experts. Read also the articles of serious scientists from various Polish universities, in particular I recommend reading those scientists who at the University of Wrocław, Jagiellonian University, Opole University deal with matters of Ukraine and diagnose the reason why Poland is farthest from Ukraine during the last 27 years. What was left of the moment when Ambassador Kozakiewicz in December 1991 was the first ambassador to come with flowers, with a bottle of champagne to acknowledge Ukraine's independence when Poland made this movement as the first country in the world? What was left of the 25 years when we followed the principle of Giedroycia and Mieroszewski, there is no safe Poland without independent Ukraine? What's left of this now in Polish-Ukrainian relations? Ukraine is looking elsewhere... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] ...because Ukraine knows, Mr. Marshal, that Poland no longer opens these most important doors for it to Brussels and other European capitals. If you don't mind, I won't speak later. I would also like to say that the very important words of President Trump in Warsaw about the article. 5 of the Washington Treaty and interesting praises, such raising our ego, about the role of Poland in history, our attachment to freedom... They're obviously important. The first ones. Because they have political significance, no, art. 5. The other one. Because they raise some who have weakened them. Mine and many of us do not need to lift up. But this is the State Department of your government. Once with his spokesperson's mouth, and twice in writing, in his statement When you were doing an assassination on the courts, he called, using a highly respected diplomatic formulation, using the word " urge," to respect the rule of law. The problem, both in relations with the rest of Europe and in relations with the United States, is that you turn backwards to those values which form the European community and the community of Polish-American interests, which in the long run can cost us very, very expensive. That is why I have the impression that this is the last bell when this policy can still be changed, and I call on the Minister to really change this unwise Polish policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u106	You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In relations with the European Union, the Polish Government has been applying a policy known elsewhere and applied everywhere for years, namely the policy of good and bad policemen. The bad policemen are, you have to say, more, starting with Minister Waszczykowski himself, who has become famous for many statements about which the gentlest words that come along are such that they were controversial, and various scouts such as Minister Kownacki, who taught the French to eat with a fork, and ending with various Members of Law and Justice with Mrs Pawłowicz, whom I would actually like to dedicate such a saying, that sometimes it is better to keep quiet, not say anything and pretend to be stupid than to speak and dispel any doubts. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And there's one good cop. This is the Minister. I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry, sir. And that's what other people do, and that's what it's been like in history, because it's just a conflict of interest, and it's a normal matter, and you may not know it, but it's just like that, and it explains all of that, and it justifies that, for example. The fact that we have 500 cases in the Court of Justice is normal because other countries have even more. Well, let's just look at the issues we have with the European Union, because this is important. Well, first there was a conflict about the Constitutional Tribunal, about the evident violation of the Polish Constitution. And, please note, the Minister will say: "But we have a different opinion on this matter, and it was Minister Waszczykowski who came to the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission has issued an opinion, and we know what the opinion was. Incredibly critical, showing what was wrong. In return, the committee found out that he was a group of some guys, some left-wings who got together and were jerking off. Well, until that statement was made, the Minister said: "The matter is in progress, the committee is speaking, and we have just taken the right course of action, and then it turned out that this course of action was wrong, and therefore this opinion was completely disregarded. How it could have been picked up in the European Union, I don't have to say. Public media? I'm not gonna elaborate on that. That's all that's been going on in this case, those rapid changes that made the public media a propaganda tube on a scale... Well, only older people remember the scale, because I don't think the younger ones are. This also violated the fundamental principles of the functioning of the democratic state in the European Union. Then there was the D.A.'s office, including everything that this bill was carrying with it. I'm not going to deal with this anymore. Then there were refugees and Poland's refugees... Actually, not Poland, but the government, because the Polish government took a position before the elections, and the Polish government took a completely opposite position after the elections. Minister, in this position it was unacceptable for the European Union that the idea of solidarity was challenged, because those countries that were struggling with this problem simply received Kozakiewicz's gesture from Poland. And there was no help. This is what Marshal Borusewicz spoke about here. There was no financial assistance at the time, there was no other concept, there was a general statement that things had to be eliminated at source. What source? Where? In the heart of what? Where? Libya, Syria? Where? How do I eliminate it? [[Voices from the hall: Aleppo.]] Little by little, Prime Minister Szydło was allowing herself to know if she knew it or not. To speak openly untruthful. Well, she said Poland is already flooded with refugees. A million refugees from Ukraine, she said. Only to the questions where there are refugee camps, where there are benefits for refugees, of course she could not answer, because no refugees from Ukraine in Poland were and are not there. I'll tell you more, all the propaganda around the refugees has been and is, Minister, disgusting. Disgusting. In 2015, polls in Poland showed that Poles were in favour of adoption in 2014 and 2015 Some group, of course, refugees. Then it changed. Why did it change? Well, because the leading politicians of the PiS told people that refugees are terrorists, they move germs, they rape our women, etc., etc. It simply does not fit in the mind that Poland, which itself was a country of refugees She could have taken that side. And of course it also changed its attitude and today the government is calling for polls and saying, well, 70% or 63% Poles don't want refugees. Minister, this is how policy can be done in every area, in every area, with the media at their disposal, presenting fraudulent and false data. Of course, people can be persuaded to almost every page. Besides, President Kaczyński said in his time that television is such a medium that convinces people to do every case, only it is necessary to do it skillfully. And that's what you do. Courts. In the court case, it's... Minister, what is this argument that has been quoted here, that in other countries this is the choice of judges? It all turned out to be false, and the two presidential vetoes made it clear that at least these two laws were at least, and we know that the third law was fatal, were absolutely unconstitutional. And how can we be surprised that the European Union is intervening in the process? This is another example. Retirement age. I agree that the issue is debatable as to whether the lower retirement age for women is discrimination or not discrimination. It all depends on what is the practice in a given country, that is, what happens after reaching retirement age. But you yourself said that this problem broke out in front of the courts, against the background that, after the retirement age was reduced or when the retirement age was announced, there was a law that said that the judge, after reaching retirement age, had to ask the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General whether he could still be a judge. Where is it? [[Whether he wants to, Mr. Marshal.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, you're wrong. [[Whether he wants to.]] No, sir. Don't argue. The Act states that judges retire after retirement age, but may ask the Minister of Justice to accept that they continue to exercise these functions. Well, I'd like to ask the Minister, and if an ordinary citizen, when he reaches retirement age, has to ask someone if he can continue to work? After all, you're even encouraging this reduction to work, and suddenly the judge has to ask someone. We know what's going on. It was about the judge's purgatory. And the Minister is surprised that the European Union is questioning this? It's a clipping. There's been a lot of talk about the clippings. That's all I'm gonna say. After all, Mr Szyszko mocks the Court of Justice in his eyes: he says that he only cuts out the trees that are about to fall on a tourist. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Minister, you're laughing at this yourself. I can see that. He mocks in his eyes, not that he's realizing it, but he interprets it differently... We've been talking about reparations here before. Of course, it is important to remember that whoever is sowing the wind collects the storm. The matter of reparation was raised for purely internal reasons, of course. Minister, the PiS government and PiS politicians are building their popularity in Poland not only on good things such as 500+, such as the fight against VAT fraud. But, unfortunately, also in waking up ghouls, that they present to society various enemies, imaginary, but actually existing, such as the European Union, such as Germany. And they're trying to build their popularity around it. Reparations, we're oppressed, we didn't get... [[Time's up, Senator.]] But this government is performing, this government is going to fight... The Germans won't give... Well, then we've heard from you. I don't want to hurt, I don't remember which one of those scouts I told you about at first, he said That the children of these degenerates should pay. Is that how you build the European Union? Is that how you build friendship between people? And there's no response to that. Now, Mr. Marshal, I'm done. I told you about the TV. This anti-EU propaganda, anti-German propaganda, which pours from the TV every day, including insulting individual people, is simply unbelievable and unacceptable. As for the consequences of this policy and this progressive isolation of Poland... The result, Minister, is that in other matters it is increasingly difficult to gain allies. That's what we've been talking about. The Minister said, "No, these matters should not be tied up; you are angry, they are angry, but we tell them that this is not the case; they will need us." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's like somebody saw trees, but they didn't see the woods. Well, unfortunately, if it's those things that today... Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. If those things that are on the wallpaper today and which are extremely important for Poland This is a matter of posted workers, this is an issue of international transport, it will not be dealt with in our own way, it will not be the fault of the Union, Minister, it will be the fault of the PiS. It will be your government's fault, not the Union's fault, and, as it used to be, Tusk's fault. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u108	You have a voice, Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The Maltese Presidency, which has passed, gives us an excuse... Every six months we have the opportunity to discuss foreign policy, especially in the EU. In fact, we're necessarily repeating what our colleagues are saying... They say it in a very clear and interesting way, but unfortunately it repeats itself. I'm kind of doing the same thing. But it's the seriousness of the situation that drives us to do it. It's not about showing off, it's about being here. We believe that the situation is beginning to be serious, dangerous and will have bad consequences. We are on a conflict course with the European Union, and this is done in a demonstration manner. It's not because we want to do some important business that we can't do otherwise, and we have to argue very hard. It's a demonstration. When one and a half years ago, the opinion of the Venice Commission, which was then ignored, and yet in a disdainful way, suggested that the Venice Commission did not know the reality, is far from such matters, etc., etc., which was disrespectful to the Council of Europe body, which has an extremely high prestige, it also seemed to me and many observers that it was an accident at work, that something happened, that we would actually withdraw from it, that it was a test. But no. Turns out it was the beginning... It was such a tool as to take further legal steps to give full freedom, and I would even call it self-will. It's legislative and legal for our government. Because this was followed by the case of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is now actually completely marginalized and does not play its part, various laws have been proposed, but above all concerning the prosecutor, the prosecutor's office, and then proposals for 3 laws on the change of the justice system in Poland, which have very deeply conflicted us with the European Union and democratic countries, and in the long term pose a significant threat to the country and its development. Here there have been, actually contrary to expectations, social protests on a relatively abstract matter. And those protests were strong enough for the president to slow down the process. I'm not gonna say he turned around because we don't know what it's gonna end with, but he certainly slowed down, and he certainly reacted in such a meaningful, meaningful way. And this is actually an extremely important issue that has led the European Union to intensify the earlier start of the investigation into the threat of the rule of law in Poland. The European Union, the European Commission, is running this delicately, carefully for a few reasons, as it may seem. Firstly, because it has a very serious issue on its mind, which is the UK's coming out of the European Union. And secondly, perhaps in the hope that, however, democratic processes in Poland... that there will be some breakthrough and improvement of this situation. So that it must be said here that the European Commission is very careful and gentler, much more delicate than the European Parliament. At the same time, that this is a system, can be seen from the problem concerning the Białowieża Forest. This clipping right here isn't really necessary for anything. This is a conflict, it would seem, little needed, absolutely unnecessary. And it is already a complete demonstration to ignore the provisional order of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. It's some kind of demonstration I think it is, I don't know anything about it in detail. Mr Szyszko would not have allowed himself without government permission. That he would possibly allow himself to cut out old spruce trees, rebuild this forest from the original forest, the old forest into an economic forest, and he wanted to do it, that's what I imagine. That's what he thinks, maybe it's the interest of the State Forests. But the demonstration of ignoring the ruling of the Court is actually a government step. And we must protest against it. There's been a lot of talk about refugees. Well, I'm not gonna be a big fan of this, but I'm gonna say that our position here is a demonstration, too. Because this is, above all, the failure to uphold the commitments of the previous government, which agreed to a one-off amount of small number of refugees, and never agreed to an automatic mechanism for the distribution of refugees, which is sometimes threatened by representatives of the government and parliamentarians of the PiS. So that the refugee case... We, in fact, have become a shield for the Baltic countries and for all other countries unnecessarily, with this demonstration. They've actually avoided problems. Only because they take on small groups of refugees, and we take on all this burden, which is actually gonna blow up in the internal market, it's gonna suck, it's gonna blow, it's actually demoralizing society, and it's gonna happen by allowing the government to scare refugees, it's gonna freak out the incidents that have happened abroad... Consider how many horrible and disgusting incidents there are in the country by our fellow countrymen, unfortunately. It's pretty much everywhere anyway. This exposing and exaggerating what refugees and migrants do and what happens, and actually playing on the lowest human instincts is a fatal thing. I believe that this is perhaps even worse than the immediate political impact, because it will have a very far-reaching result in the dislike of young people, the fears of young people. And incidents related to this approach and such a bad example are already taking place. So that all this together pushes us into a completely unnecessary conflict, because we have very important interests in the European Union, which we should and want to settle. These are, above all, energy problems. This is a very, very long-standing problem, we need proper transitional arrangements that would favour us in terms of the energy market above all. The second problem, much smaller, but also important for the country, is the problem of posted workers. It is also a problem of emissions trading. These are all things that we are able to change and prepare, but for this we need a much longer time horizon, say, even decades. So that I think that our policy of demonstrationally anti-EU, demonstratingly isolating us from others will have very bad results. The government feels confident, the government has very strong public support. Partly deserved, partly due to populism, partly due to playing on low instincts and scaring. Because, as Senator Borowski said, raising people by fear and by developing black visions, especially with practical ignorance of the subject, is relatively easy. But that's all, the better it is right now, the greater the disaster threatens in a certain period of time. And actually that's why I'm taking the floor, because basically as far as the specific issues that I raised are concerned, they've all found a good address from my colleagues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u110	Senator Grodzki will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As I said in the discussion, I represent Szczecin. The city has never been decorated, always traded, whether it's the Danes or the Swedes or the Prussians. And it must be made clear here, in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, that the presence of Poland in the European Union, the strong presence of Poland in the European Union, is a Polish reason for the state. And any intentional or unintentional or unfortunate attempts to deny this fact are detrimental to Poland. This needs to be made clear and it is clear to the inhabitants of Szczecin, Western Pomerania, Lubuskie Voivodeship. Meanwhile, we started, as some say, a gentlemen's club where we agreed on certain values: love of freedom, respect for democracy, free movement of services, capital, thought and finance. And then we hear our foreign minister say, "We must realize that we can be deceived at any time." This must be said openly: Union policy has proved to be a policy of double standards and cheating. This is a quote from Minister Waszczykowski. Well, you don't say that. President Kaczyński said this in September 2015: we are radically different from the Platform, we offer stability, peace and respect towards the opposition. Less than 2 years later, there are cheating faces and crooked with rage. And on 11 September this year, President Kaczyński, on a monthly basis, says that we will be alone in Europe on certain matters. Well, what else would you call it if it wasn't a centrifugal trend? Even if we declare that everything is okay, that we absolutely do not want to distance ourselves from the Union... words are one thing and actions are different. In fact, as some politicians conclude in other countries, Poland presents a simple policy: give us money and stay out of it. In my view, this is not how the European Union works. I am aware of how it works on the international market, because for one term I was privileged to serve as president of the European thoracosurgical society bringing together people from Sweden to Portugal. And it was not easy to reach consensus, to reconcile the Portuguese with the cool Swedish at the Board of Blood, but it was possible through discussion and friendly dialogue. We have always worked out consensus and our term of office has gone into history as the one where the number of members of society has increased most in history. It seems obvious that a lot of things are done in clouds and through bilateral talks. That's why I wonder where this extreme naivety and belief that putting Mr. Saryusz-Wolski on the stand changed anything. Then there was a dramatic defeat, after which flowers were comforted by Prime Minister Szydło at the airport in Okęc. It says something doesn't work in this government. We knew... I do not believe that you, Minister, who presents such a high level of competence in Europe here, do not realise all this. You don't have to keep looking. Minister Gowin presents a draft law on higher education. It's an important, big project, and Marshal Terlecki says he doesn't know anything about it, that it wasn't agreed with the government or with the mug, and that he thinks it's weird. Minister Gowin says it's an information obstruction. In surgery, obstruction is a very serious disease that threatens to die if not treated. We need to be clear about this. [[Applause]] Action against the wilderness. Well, the European Union has an accidental mechanism to which we have applied ourselves. I encourage you to look at the Copernicus satellite website, a common European project. There's a giant hole in the middle of the forest. This degradation is completely incomprehensible to me. I don't want to talk about refugees. I will give just one example, because, as the Latin maxim verba volant, exempla trahunt says, words fly away, examples attract. You should know that. Liver transplantation is an extremely difficult procedure. The largest number of such treatments are performed in two centres, in Warsaw and in Szczecin. In Szczecin they are performed by Dr. Samir Zeair, a Syrian refugee who, during the next wave of emigration, came to Poland 30 years ago as a teenager and for years, being an outstanding surgeon, saves the lives of Poles. You can't... [[And the germs?]] Excuse me? [[Different germs.]] I don't understand. You can't treat refugees as evil incarnate because they're not. On the beach in Rimini, Poland was brutally raped, but few people remember that in Poland there are about 200 rapes a day, both at home and in public space, and it all goes away. We must realise that we will either remain in the European Union as an important, large country both demographically and economically, or If we continue this policy, we will find ourselves on the ground, and from there sometimes it is very difficult to return to deep waters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u112	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay. Going twice, so five minutes. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] [[It's go time.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here is another thread, which is perhaps very important in answer to the question: what attitude should we take as Poland towards the European Union, in relation to the values of the European Union, towards the institutions of the European Union? After all, I don't think any of you sitting here, and I'm looking at my friends from Law and Justice, and I'm not questioning that we're in the European Union. [[But no one's questioning it.]] And I hear in public space that you do not even intend to bring Poland out of the European Union, that we will be a lonely island, but in the European Union. You can take 2 extreme attitudes. First of all, it is possible, as the Minister said, to answer all questions in all cases, to answer yes, to have no doubt, to ask no questions and to accept what they say. That's one extreme attitude. There's another extreme attitude that I'm sorry about. Unfortunately, it presents our government, the Government of Law and Justice and the State of the PiS here in the Chamber. According to her, you have to be. I'll use Senator Augustine's comparison here. The Black Peter who fights to win, but you know he's doomed to fail because no one loves him, doesn't like him, doesn't want to. etc. These are two extreme attitudes. And I... [[In 1939, we were alone.]] Mr. Marshal, could this nice man from Pomerania not bother me? [[Don't disturb the senators who have the right to vote. There you go.]] These are two extreme attitudes, and extremes always lose in life. Therefore, our request, our proposal is addressed to open people. Again, I'm sorry, I'm gonna use this... However, I think we will lead to the fall of the Minister, because, like the Minister, who reports on what is happening in the European Union... The point is, however, not to go on this extreme road, either left or right, but to try to be in the current, to be in the discussion, to be at the table. Let me remind you again: after all, we will discuss not from the position of Black Peter, such North Korea in the world, or whoever agrees with everything, here I will not give any example, but from the position of the person who is discussing problems, has his ideas, tries to convince others, win the majority and show that it is important and good not only for Poland, but also for other European countries. After all, we will discuss and discuss, some topics have already been successfully closed, as has already been said. Climate and environmental policy, budget for the coming years. Have you ever seen Black Peter win a good budget? I don't. Always so-called. haunted, as is often termed, are left with utopian dreams. Therefore, I suggest to be reasonable, to look at where the Polish interest is, how to turn this business into a success. The services market, posted workers. I mean, there's 500 grand in here. The investment project, as I recall, may be mistaken here, 500 billion PLN, an investment plan for the European Union. After all, these are projects that are important for the development and future of Poland. Protectionist measures. Some of the countries of the old European Union have the urge to have a total dictatorship here. We should be those who sit down and talk equally. Finally, internal and external security. There's been a lot of talk here. Besides, the Minister has given examples of this. Well, let's take positive action on energy policy, on gas. Well, we'd really hit each other, but we couldn't make it. That's why I'd like to ask you something. This concerns the Minister and, I hope, most of the politicians of Law and Justice, but certainly not all of them. As you have risen from your knees, you rule Poland and conduct Polish affairs in relations with the European Union, so be careful that it does not turn out that on these straight knees you are alone, maybe together with Orbán and Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u114	You have a voice, Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u115	Dear Marshal, Minister! Well, it's impossible to ignore some of the speeches, especially Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, because it was like saying something about a particular burden. I will speak briefly about our accession to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, there were as if two reasons, two pillars. The first one was political. Please bear in mind that it was the solidarity that it was also our country that won the independence and the merger of Germany. Let us remember this famous wall. So it was definitely one of the reasons, one of the two in my opinion. This political reason was important and that is why we have been accepted into the European Union. And the second reason was economic. Let us be aware that this is primarily the business, the interests of the Western countries. I was recently on a delegation with Marshal Karczewski. Professor Rocki, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, as well as Professor Sługocki from the Civic Platform, were with us. And we had different meetings there. They, these French, especially the caracals, were talking about, but there were no problems, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sługocki said... Anyway, I've said that, too. We have made it clear that according to various analyses from every euro that is being allocated to us, some say that even more is coming back to the West, please. Take German companies of construction and road machinery, take various kinds of companies that built roads with us. The adoption of Poland and other countries into the European Union from an economic point of view was primarily worthwhile for the West. And we need to know that. We also need to know that the European Union is not giving us anything. If we take such an assumption that it gives us something, let us remember that it gives all the associated countries. That's just what we're doing as a full-fledged member. Let's call it that. So it's not a charity, it's not a question of asking or doing business. Ladies and gentlemen, I must address some of the comments. Of course, I do not want to be malicious here, but in the statements of all the Senators of the Civic Platform, I have not heard any concrete complaint about our country's foreign policy towards the European Union. Well, let's get back to the last eight years. Well, Nord Stream was built, but we had such great deals. It's a threat to us, and it's not just to us. For this term of office I do not know how effective the Polish state and our diplomacy are here. The construction of Nord Stream II is already a problem. Of course, we owe it to the United States, of course, but it's clear that the Russians and the Germans have a problem. I really don't see these successes. Perhaps you could mention some particular achievements of the Civic Platform and PSL government. It is very possible that I do not know some of the successes we had during this period, and which were caused by the fact that we had more influence in the European Union and we were in what Mr Czarnobaj called the main trend. I don't see the consequences. The only thing that can still be attributed to this is the role of President of the Council or, as you call it, President of Europe for Prime Minister Tusk. It's just that, ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to imagine the honor of Prime Minister Tusk, since... [[We're talking about the premiere.]] ...when the former Prime Minister is running for the second term or for the second half of his term of office I stress that the former Prime Minister Without the consent of the Polish government. A man of honor should just give up, and that's all. They're gonna write about it in history anyway. We're in some kind of dispute right now... Well, there's a political dispute, which is kind of natural, and that's why we don't see things, but that's definitely how it's going to be described. I think I'm saying this for the last time. It's the rule of law. When Mr. Duda, the president-elect, all the TV shows it. Mr Kopacz was meeting with Mrs Kopacz, and he asked that no systemic changes be made in the meantime. Modern representatives and parts of the Platform report to our country, report to our country to the European Union, forgetting that it was the Civic Platform, as it were, that elected members of the Constitutional Tribunal. I have already told you several times that if this had not happened, no one would have dealt with the Constitutional Tribunal. So, since we're already blaming ourselves here, I'm gonna say that it's the Civil Platform's fault for starting this battle. I hear our place in Europe has changed, we're weaker. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this may say, with all due respect, an inexperienced Member, but for the senators to say such things, it is out of the question. Now that the president of the most powerful country in the world is coming, he's meeting with the Intersea Group and he's talking about it, how can it be said that the Intermarine is doomed to failure in advance? Why 20, 30, 40 years ago the existence of the intermarine was legitimate, and now it's not? What is 50, 100 years in the history of the state, in the history of the continent and the world? It's nothing. So, in my view, the Intermarine is up to date. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to date. And I understand, of course, and I don't mind that Prime Minister Orbán has contacts with Russia. If he considers it beneficial and good for his country, he should simply do so. And we shouldn't hold that against you. I understand that countries have different interests. If somebody thinks we're gonna be in the middle of the night, bossing around and imposing our rations, our solutions, it's wrong. Well, in some cases we can agree, in others we can't, but the fact that individual countries have their own interests is natural and that's what we should be prepared for. Today, the Minister of Agriculture meets with agricultural ministers in the Visegrad Group. Recently, the opposition screamed that the Visegrad Group had already broken down. No. Such organizations are built for a very, very long time. And I certainly hope, of course, that thanks to the support of the United States; may Trump rule as long as possible, ladies and gentlemen. It can be built, at least you can build foundations for this organization, under the Intersea. So I do not see here the risk of isolation of Poland. And the fact that we are raising, ladies and gentlemen, some of your interests, some important matters for us in the European forum... Yeah, well, you know, somebody's not gonna like it. You criticize Minister Waszczykowski's statements. And how do we assess President Macro's statement to our Prime Minister or to our country? Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the Senate and, as regards certain international policies, we should be in agreement, since this matters to our country. We as a political formation, as this government, have taken a certain direction, a certain model, perhaps in some cases it does not work, but, you know, how it is in life Of course, we should agree on the model of functioning in the European Union and on fundamental issues. The issue of immigration has yet to be raised. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I can't really put things together here. If a particular formation, with a specific program, wins the election, it's hard not to let it carry out this program. We have made it clear that we are opposed to the admission of immigrants. We've made it clear that we're gonna fix the courts, so all these issues... We were very clear about the retirement age. And we're just doing it. These twenty-seven years, almost thirty, when it comes to our freedom, this period of solidarity, I, of course, consider as an investigation to a certain ideal. Of course, we won't reach it, but it's kind of a different issue, but please note that the Civic Platform... our previous term was interrupted, there were earlier elections, and the Civic Platform had a president and ruled by two terms. I hope that the PiS will rule the minimum for two terms. The situation in our country, when it comes to democratic, social, economic issues, is stabilizing, but I repeat: certain matters must be irrefutable for both the opposition and the coalition. And that's where we need to support each other. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to act unwisely with regard to your country. It goes on for example. It's about the reparation case. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you as an opposition: rush the government to prepare an analysis to look for legal solutions to bring this about. Our country was completely destroyed, many millions of Poles were murdered, Warsaw was one of the great ruins. And no one's responsible? And you're surprised that there are different negative opinions in Germany? What do you want them to be like? We have two opinions, the opinion of the Bundestag and the opinion of the Polish Sejm, the Office for Sejm Analysis. You think the Germans are gonna agree so quickly and they're gonna admit it to us? No, they'll defend themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very possible that another Minister of Platform, Minister of Foreign Affairs, will pursue these reparations. And sooner or later, you will have to do this, because if there is a procedure in place, you will not explain to Poles why you are pulling out of it. I'll be back in... [[Time's up, Senator.]] Professor, please give me one more minute. And as far as migrants are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, no one has asked us, our country, Unless there's something we don't know, but I don't think anybody asked. Do we agree to accept a few thousand immigrants? If Mrs Merkel or the German government invited them... Nobody asked us that. He didn't ask Hungary, he didn't ask the Czech Republic, Slovakia. So that is certainly the problem of the European Union, I am aware of that, it is a problem in the wider sense of the word. And if we're talking about solidarity, I'm going to say yes. The Prime Minister of the 28 countries had to be met and said: there is a problem of refugees, we want to accept them, what do you say? Russia. Professor, when it comes to Russia, it'll be short. Ladies and gentlemen, none of us want bad relations with Russia, it's kind of logical. The Smolensk disaster, whether it was the negligence of our party, the Polish government, regardless of who was Prime Minister, Polish services, Polish ministries, will, I hope, be explained. But it is a problem that destroys and behaves the Polish government, and the Russian side, which destroys certain agreements. After all, we would like to trade with Russia, we would like to have good relations with Belarus, only in this situation is it very difficult. Just a little bit about the State Forests. I'm sure none of your senators were in the Bialowieza Forest... [[I was.]] Were you, Professor? So, ladies and gentlemen, it's really worth a visit, it's really worth seeing. If any of you... Me, for example. I have a forest, 4 ha. If any of you have a forest, and you see that there's a corkscrew going in there... A forest like this just cuts out. And this is a philosophy or... Professor, there are scientists who say that we should leave it, let it rot, and then something will grow. But there are also scientists, Professor, with the same titles that claim that human interference is simply necessary. The Government of Law and Justice has now taken sides on the other side, on the side of professors who claim that without human interference, in this case without interference by State Forests, it will die. If anyone was there, if anyone saw it, I understand, but if someone wasn't... I cordially invite you, for the second time. I'm gonna give you the bus that's gonna take you. And there will be foresters, groves, who will show the graveyard of the forest. It's hard to tell. It's just one big cemetery. If we don't cut it out, it's just gonna die. I don't know, Professor... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] Now, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry. I don't know... The next forest, Professor, could be 500 years from now. And I think inaction would be a sin in this case. [[The cycle is 7 years old, no more...]] Professor, does that mean that in seven years the barker will eat and in seven years the trees will grow? That's not true, Professor. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And I'm sorry I missed the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u116	You have a voice, Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have been listening to this discussion for a long time, to the statements of several previous speakers, among others. Mr Borowski's statements. [[Oh!]] When Mr. Borowski talks about the propaganda that PiS is running on television, in the media, that young people do not remember it, and that we would have to refer to history, I am a little surprised, because in fact the propaganda in Mr. Borowski's day was amazing, it was Goebbelsian type, which means a hundred times repeated lie became true. But young people don't need to be sent back. 20, 30 years back, back to communist times, because they really don't remember it. Just go back a year and a half. Back then, propaganda was Goebbelsian too, only more sophisticated. Social engineering, subconscious transmission, subliminal transmission. It's a higher stage of propaganda. This has been the case for the last eight years of the Civic Platform's rule. And now this kind of propaganda is going on, but in commercial media, not in public media, but in commercial media, by the way, to what you said. You said that the PiS created propaganda, that it threatened refugees and that it was wrong. Someone praised the doctor who came to Poland 30 years ago. Yeah, there are occasional cases, I don't deny it. But I'll tell you that I've been to African and Arab countries several times, I came back from the Arabian Peninsula the day before yesterday, after a few years not being there, I've visited several countries in the Arab Peninsula, I've also been to the African continent, Egypt. And if anyone says you have to bring refugees here, As someone from the Platform, it seems that Mrs. Pomaska or someone else said that they should come to Poland and we should, as it was said, culturalize... [[It's culturally poor.]] ...to be culturally poor. I would suggest that the Sejm may give the opposition a totalitarian trip to Egypt, Cairo or Luxor, and if they don't want to go there anymore, then to the Holy Land. All they have to do is go to Eilat and cross the border crossing from Eilat to Akaba. On the other hand, it's literally... I do not want to offend Polish pigsty, saying that it is as if you entered the pigsty from the living room, because in Polish pigsty is clean, there is order. If you think these people are able to enrich us culturally, then I'm sorry. I think that Divine Providence over Poland watched that Law and Justice took over because you would have given us hell here if you had let this culture in. These people can't be civilized. They won't even be integrated because religion doesn't allow them to integrate with us. If you're saying they're welcome here, then you don't have a clue at all. Take a ride, check it out. I was there a few years ago and I was now thinking something got better, and there's even worse, there's dirt, dirt and dirt. And I'll even say colloquially: there's crap, syphilis, and graves. These people can't be civilized! [[Mr. Senator, you have to count the words.]] Good. You're talking about Peter Pan... about Peter Peter... yes, about Black Peter Peterus, about us here in Poland, we're going to stand down as the only ones who want to, and we're just, we're just going to be the only ones... I want to remind you that in 1939 we were alone, too. So? Were we also supposed to cooperate with Hitler, as some countries have cooperated? Poland behaved honorably then. And the Government of Law and Justice defends the honour of Poland and Poles. When everyone says we're gonna take a step over the abyss, and when it's like all of us went down there, we're gonna jump in, too? We have Poland, we have our country and our security is the most important. And even being alone in this, we will even be the only ones in Europe to oppose it... This is Poland's business, not that we... I understand that some of you, of you Maybe not all of them. For many years, you've gotten so used to it... Well, you have such a servitude nature, a slave, you always had to have some master over you, you had a master in Moscow, and now you have your masters in Brussels. But that's your nature. And the problem is not in the rule of law and justice, the problem is in you, in total opposition, in your nature. You guys need to work on yourselves and revise your views. You must have your own honor, a sense of national pride, a Pole's pride, not to say that everyone is like that, so we must, too, or else we will stand down. Well, I'm sorry. Thank you. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damian: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u118	You have a voice, Senator Klich. This is the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u119	I think three minutes, Mr. Marshal, because I've already used some of the time in my first speech. I'll take the last two speeches as an excuse to tell you what I didn't get to say in the first part. First of all, I would like to apologize to all the people of Jordan for what Senator Dobrzyński said. It is unworthy of the Senator of the Republic of Poland to describe any citizen, especially a citizen of a country friendly with Poland, who, as one of two Arab countries, is aware of his foreign policy towards the West and states that, so to speak, it is important, if not the penultimate, to the Arab countries as regards the interests of Europe and the United States. I crossed that border crossing, also on foot. And I have to say, Akaba is an interesting tourist destination. Moreover, for the first time at the border crossing in such a distant country I met a borderman speaking perfection in Polish, who studied at one of the Polish universities. On your behalf, I apologize to the people of Jordan for what you said about them. This is not acceptable to the Senator of the Republic of Poland. [[Senator Jan Dobrzyński: Your name is wrong. I wasn't in Jordan.)]] [[You got the wrong name.]] [[Senator Marek Borowski: This is not Senator Dobrzyński.)]] Sorry, this is Senator Bonkowski. Senator Bonkowski said so. So I apologize on behalf of the Senator of the Member State. Senator Dobrzyński provoked me to say two words about the Intermarriage. The intersea is an extension. And it would be good, Minister, if you didn't empathize with something that was before, but you didn't have a name. Such meetings were regularly held in the days of previous governments. The various summits of Central and Central-Eastern Europe gathered politicians of the same rank as the summit held in July this year in connection with the arrival of President Trump, only that they were not called the Inter-marriage, but were simply a assembly or presidents or foreign ministers or defence ministers from this region. It is extremely important not to claim the right to leadership, only that others recognise the leadership of the Polish side. And the leadership of the Polish side others recognize when Poland will be a player on the international stage. You can't create yourself as a leader and you can't stick a sign that says "I'm the leader." Such leadership is not recognized by other countries. I recommend the principle that we have followed for many, many years. That's one thing. Secondly, as far as the Visegrad Group is concerned, I would have much to say about the cooperation that Prime Minister Orbán and the Russian Federation have undertaken in the field of nuclear energy in the field of energy matters. I wouldn't object to that if it were before the annexation of Crimea and the invasion of Russia on Donbas. But after the annexation of Crimea and after the invasion of Donbas, no such business must be conducted with the Russian Federation, Mr. Senator Dobrzyński. [[The Germans too...]] You can't do this kind of business. [[The French, too.]] [[And the Italians too.]] The government in Warsaw should point out this kind of action to Prime Minister Orbán, because this kind of action violates the principles of sanctions which have been recognised by the European Union as a whole, including by his Government. In this way, it sanctiones the behaviour of the Russian Federation, which blew up the entire international order after the Cold War. Moreover, it has undermined the European security model, which is a saint because it is enshrined in the North Atlantic Alliance's security strategy. Finally, lastly, I would like to say to the Minister that you are facing a great challenge because there will be negotiations on the next financial perspective. The EUR 82.5 billion negotiated by the previous government in the 2014-2020 perspective was not just because of GDP per capita. And you, as an experienced European politician, know very well, and I know very well, because we are in this together, that other factors are also important, political factors are important, alliances are important, so to speak, good relations that allowed us at that time to negotiate the largest amount, which is EUR 82.5 billion, for Poland, the amount that we are making abundant use of and thanks to which Poland is the largest beneficiary of European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u120	You have a voice, Senator Borowski. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I won't argue with Senator Bonkowski. I would just like to congratulate Mr Szymanski on such a supporter and defender of your policy. I will add one sentence, or I will refer to one matter related to Senator Dobrzyński's statement, whose calm tone I appreciate. Besides, you've been criticized by your colleague, and he thinks it's time to go a little harder. No, that's good. It gives us a field, some possibility of discussion. There were a lot of things in your speech that would be good for polemics, but they don't involve close contact with the European Union, so I just want to address an economic issue that is particularly close to me. Namely, such a scheme is duplicated, that the money which the European Union transfers to Poland, including other countries, less developed countries, go back there and therefore actually they pay themselves, so what is the point. [[We're still adding up.]] Yes. So this is a trick. To show you what's going on, I'm going to bring it to an example, quite extreme. Let's say that all the money Poland receives is spent on construction of roads and motorways, and all these roads and motorways are built by German companies. [[Western, Mr. Marshal.]] Let's make it German for simplicity. In addition, they bring in their employees. So all of this goes back to them. [[And equipment.]] And equipment, yes. So all of this goes back to them. It's just that these roads stay with us. So you could say they built us roads, right? [[And there could still be money...]] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. [[...for work.]] But I'm talking about an extreme case. Even if that were the case, that is, in the extreme case, 100%. All that's left of them is the road. [[And a debt, Mr. Marshal.]] What debt? [[What debt? They're paying.]] He doesn't have a debt because they pay. [[...from debt...]] No, no, please logically... [[Let's not disturb the senator.]] He doesn't have a debt because they pay. This is an extreme case. And there are no extreme cases. Firstly, when it comes to how many foreign companies then use, of course, through tenders, this money is not 60%. After the famous speech by Prime Minister Szydło, who said 60%, I read the analysis in this case and this is about 40%. That's one thing. Secondly, these companies employ Polish workers here. [[Which they don't pay.]] You know what, if they don't pay, they'll pay. These are the ones they pay. They don't pay subcontractors. Let's not bring this up because she's complicated, and that's not what this is about right now. The point is that they employ Polish workers. And then, of course, that's the result. That's it. That's it. I don't want to claim... It is clear that, from an economic point of view, the enlargement of the European Union to Poland, as well as other countries, those less developed, was beneficial to both parties. It's not like we're the only ones using. Of course, the countries of the former Union, the Western ones, especially the economically stronger ones, also benefit. What's the deal? Those countries, of course, want to export. They also have an excess of capital that needs to be invested somewhere. Where can they export, where can they export, and where can they invest this capital? Well, in those countries that have the right market, they have the right pace of economic growth, demand growth and, of course, the right conditions for these investments. Therefore, if they invest in Poland, if they allocate these funds to support investments in Poland, Poland will develop faster, Poland will become a more absorbent market for them, but at the same time Poland will be more developed and will export more. And that's what we've been watching. Not even 10, 13... since the entry into the Union, but before, from the association, from the abolition of customs duties, etc., we have observed... Namely, the rate of growth of Polish exports to the European Union is clearly faster than the rate of increase in exports of the European Union to Poland. So you could see that it was You can say that it's paid off for us. Not to mention the growth rate of gross domestic product, which was already much higher than in those countries. So the point is to treat it in terms of mutual benefit. You could say that in the sense of catching up The greater benefits of Poland. Poland's GDP at the time of Poland's accession to the European Union was forty-several percent of the EU's average GDP. Today it's 69% , now maybe 70%, right? So this shows that we're catching up at a faster pace. So I'm just suggesting that we don't spread these myths, because maybe for us... We understand it better, but when a politician says it in public, it's a lot of people who think that we just don't get anything at all, because that money just goes back there. And it's not like that. And that's it for this one thing. And we'll have a chance to talk about other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u122	You have a voice, Senator Dobrzyński. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal, when it comes to roads, the fact is that all large Polish companies have gone bankrupt or are in trouble. The fact is, Mr. Marshal, believe me, in the event of a tender and a contract with Western co-operatives, they always leave one or two at the end, who will never get the money. That's how it is, Mr. Marshal. Believe me, it's not an invention. I'll just give you two facts. We had one of the best heavy equipment factories in Europe in our country. This company probably doesn't exist anymore. If such companies were to be expanded, we would have much, much easier when it comes to heavy equipment. Second thing. As far as I remember, in 1990, in order to keep Ursus' factory, 15 million dollars had to be financed. No one did. I don't know if it was intentional, inappropriate, random, or maybe somebody built a house for it. But it was another mistake, because the equipment, the tractors, John. Deere, et cetera... Well, farmers are complaining today. You could have taken it, they took it. I agree that the economy wasn't here at all, but today... The Polish tractor could be repaired with simpler tools, and today it is replaced with an element that costs 8 and 10 thousand. So these two things in my judgment didn't work. As far as the Intermarine is concerned, I really wish this project all the best and support him. This is not to be discussed. After all, everyone in this room is We know. That it is a project that will allow countries so-called. The intermarine is to put some things bolder and harder in... maybe not in dispute, but in various conversations with the leaders of the European Union; I mean Germany and France. The Germans really specialized. German scientists, politicians, in making money on the European Union. After all, they are developing, and you know it, some project, they carry it out in the European Union, they are trying for some grants, etc., financial support, and their factories, their companies are already prepared This is the case, for example. with angular motors to use this money. Please note how it is. in the case of windmills. After all, the main production of windmills is Germany and partly France. We are certainly still far from the economic activity that Germany is presenting, but we must take this kind of action under some agreement. I think there should be a committee in our country with the government. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Professor, various types of directives are discussed. Such a group, I do not know, lawyers and economists in the number of 30 or 50 should follow and inform the government, individual ministries and then economic activists that such and such a directive appeared, which is related to it, what subsidies will be and what benefits Poland will benefit from it. It's very possible that we'll make some money someday... This is not working very well so far, but we are not really long in the Union. It has to be worked on for many, many years. I'm sure we'll come to that sooner or later. As for these 60 cents, Mr Marshal, this was said by a representative of the Civic Platform, and I agree with it. Now, about this trip... We all are. And the representatives of the Platform and the PiS agreed with these calculations. The French side... We said it at different levels. And in the Senate, and in the government. We also spoke to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The French side didn't protest, Mr. Marshal. I wasn't the only one there. You can ask Professor Slugocki or Professor Rocky because we were on this delegation together. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u124	You have a voice, Senator Bonkowski. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator Klich, I have neither offended the Jordanian state nor the Egyptian state nor the nation. [[Citizens.]] I said the fact, I said what I saw with my own eyes. I said it was a mess, and I said it was a mentality. As a Pole, I have the right not to wish these people here to bring to Poland that culture with their mentality... that we should buy this mess. They have the right, they live in their own homes. If they want a mess, they have this mentality... It's their sacred law. That's their culture, so let them do whatever they want in their country. But I do not wish this in Poland. I didn't offend the state or the nation. I'm just stating the fact. I want to tell you that I wasn't just in the resort in Akaba. I drove all the way across Jordan, I was in a few places, not just in Amman or somewhere else. We've got to go deep. That's where you'll see the real Arabian Peninsula, not the resorts. If you'd bothered to lean over the resort fence, you'd have seen what was in there. It's just... [[It's a beautiful country.]] Yes, the country is beautiful, but when it comes to culture, about order, I would absolutely not want that in Poland. I'd like to refer now... Because this is where the charges against Mr. Viktor Orbán were filed. I'm very sorry about that. Mr Orbán came here and he was judged out of honor and faith that he was breaking the unity of the European Union. After all, there was an Russian embargo imposed on Poland. That he breaks the unity... What was he supposed to do? He wasn't supposed to take Putin when he signed a contract to build a nuclear power plant or bring in gas? So what? When Putin invited in, he wasn't supposed to accept him? And where does Europe get gas from? After all, Europe also takes gas from Russia. Where do we get the gas? What's to be offended by Orbán? For Putina taking it? From worship and faith... I very much regret that when Orbán came to Poland, he was cold accepted by Mrs Kopacz. To be honest, I also regret that our president has not met with him. And you know what? Mr Orbán left Poland, and in 3 days' time, literally in 3 days or even 2 or 1 day, the European Commission announced that there is no solidarity here that each country can individually negotiate the terms of cooperation with Russia. Then who's breaking the unity here? The Germans, the French have done this all the time, and it is Hungary that Orbána is accused of breaking the unity of the European Union. Well, gentlemen, you're pathetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u126	You have a voice, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak in this discussion, but there were threads here that need to be addressed. And I think my person is able to bring something new in here. The first point is a side thread, but I think it's quite important at the moment, namely a reparation thread. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the first person who introduced the concept of reparation into the Polish parliament was me. From 2001 to 2005, I was a Member of the League of Polish Families. That's when I was putting together a project. It was on August 28, 2003 and I was already in the Catholic-National Movement circle. The project had been quite a long time, it was not given a run, and at some point it could be useful. The point was that, although the project was not submitted for this purpose, it was used as a counterweight to the German demands, which were then applied to the Polish side, as well as to Polish citizens for the return of property, property left here by the so-called. The late displaced people who left for Germany and left their properties here. But I'm saying this is a sideline, although it's important in the situation we're in right now. But one fact from the development of this project is very important. I was then a young Member, full of hope and ideals. And, ladies and gentlemen, as a representative of the applicants, I was present at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which dealt with this project. There were very different voices. Most of them approve of this project. By the way, he went through practically an acclamation, i.e. all were in favour except for one abstention. The resolution was adopted on 10 September 2004. But at this committee meeting, I was struck by one voice, which was very sharp and very negative in relation to this project. And then I wondered, as a young Member, how could you be so anti-Polish. Do you know whose voice that was? Mr. Bogdan Klich. And explaining how to be so anti-Polish turned out to be very simple. Shortly after that, the weekly społecznik published an article stating that Mr Bogdan Klich is the President of the Institute of Strategic Studies, which is powered generously by 3 German foundations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your choice now. Or money, old contacts, sometimes family ties to this old system, specifically with Germany, sometimes with Soviet Russia... [[This is an outrage.]] ...or you will also vote and speak here, from this tribune, like Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, we may have very different views. Here I am addressing you from the Civic Platform. We may differ in our internal and external affairs. But a certain core of opinion, a core of the speech from this tribune, is obvious. Either you're in favour of Poland or you're in favour of Germany. That is the choice when it comes to reparation issues. There's no other choice. This is a zero-one situation. [[There'll be applause.]] Now that the issue of reparation is in public again, that's good. What's the effect of this situation, we don't know. But as Poles, we should seek reparations because this is what all those who died during the war would require of us. Those who have lost their wealth or whose protoplasts have lost their property are also required. To me, to the office comes those whose property, e.g. In Poznań they were requisitioned by the Germans, and they were displaced themselves. We talk so much about displacements and property losses. No compensation. Germany, as a country, has not yet grown up to make amends. Then let's make them grow up. Now. So much for that. And the main topic of this discussion, which we have come to here in a sense, is that we, namely Poland, and the European Union are now in a groundbreaking situation in my view. Well, the European Union was supposed to be a flywheel of development for us, to provide us with resources, know-how, technology, organizational thoughts, all the goods. Does the EU actually provide us with this now? Of course, yes to a certain extent, but from the point of view of social change, from the point of view of caring for the welfare of the citizen, is he really providing us with all this, and is he an example to us? No. The Union is behind, on many issues it is behind Poland. I am no longer talking about the fact that it sometimes hinders our economic development. The question is, why is he doing this? Just to mess things up? Of course not. We are a competitor to them, which we can easily understand. In many countries the Polish worker, Polish driver, Polish builder is a competitor. And that's understandable, of course. But there are other issues, issues of the worldview. Let's ask the question which world is better. Is it the one built in Poland or the one built in the West? Where will you go to the mass event? In Poland or in the West? Knowing in the back of your head that something could explode, where you're gonna get on the subway or on the train? In Poland or in the West? Where are you guys gonna take a walk on Christmas after the promenade? In Poland or in the West? 'Cause that's where they can drive you. Which world is better? Which is built on better, more stable bases? Is this one built in us, with a normal position of a woman and a man, with a normally established family supported by the state, if it has any problems, or the one in the West? Why is our 500+ program so disturbing the West? Why does he mind the trade tax I asked him about today? What is it in Poland that Poland cannot develop according to its own model, but must adopt the Western model? And we're already seeing what the Western model ends with. They've already reached the threshold in some places, and there's gonna be a gap behind that threshold. Well, we have to accept immigrants. And we don't want to accept them. Why should we accept them? On a solidarity basis? But we're not a neocolonial state, we didn't take advantage of these people's work, we didn't cause war there... [[And neither is Greece.]] ...and we never invited these people here, promising them a paradise on earth. Why can't Poland just grow the way it wants? Perhaps the answer to this question is simpler than we think. Poland was a country or a creation that belonged to the Eastern block, but from the classification point of view it was actually a colonial country. The Soviet Union exploited us, it simply exploited our assets, our resources, plus it still imposed on us ideology, its value system. We've freed ourselves, no one has given it to us. The fact that we are free is due to the Solidarity, the Polish nation, who fortunately had such lawyers as St. John Paul II or Ronald Reagan. Thanks to this, we are no longer a colonial state at the moment, but unfortunately we are still a postcolonial state, or at least until recently, because that was the Third Republic. Any attempt to stand up to full independence, full sovereignty, was suppressed, crushed, unfortunately with the involvement of the internal opposition. And now the question is, what's next? We've been a fully sovereign state for two years, we're making sovereign decisions. That's what I'm talking about. A dispute with the European Union is not a dispute over whether something is better or worse, because it can be seen. Reality judges that. This is a dispute over whether Poland is to be a neocolonial state whether fully sovereign, whether Poland can do everything within the family of European countries, everything that other countries can do or not. Why can't Poland have such a system of determining Supreme Court judges and KRS members as other Western European countries? Why aren't we allowed to do that? Or are we allowed to? Let's do our job. Why are we not allowed to introduce a trade tax, which is very similar in the form of countries in the west of Europe? What are we worse at? Can we introduce such a tax? We're allowed. We're gonna be blocked, we're gonna be disturbed, we're gonna be threatened, but it's not gonna do us any good, ladies and gentlemen, because a country that once came out of sovereignty isn't gonna get under its own shoes unless it's under the influence of external force or, unfortunately, so-called. Total opposition. I hope it never happens. Minister, regardless of what other words will come from this speaker, Poland should be a sovereign country. We are to make decisions, and the European Union may possibly bite our lips and say that there is nothing more that the European Union can do with us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u128	Senator Stanisławek has your voice. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to be a replica.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Now, Mr. Senator Klich. Since his name has been mentioned, he has the right to a few minutes replica.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u129	Thank you very much. To be honest, Mr. Senator, after this speech, I don't even want to approach the speaker. I'll answer you from your seat, sitting down. There's a very big difference of opinion between us. I have no doubt about that. But I never accused you of wickedness. This time you behaved wickedly because you accused me of expressing such views for financial reasons, not for other reasons. You must think so. I'll repeat, you seem to think so. I can't be bought. I've never been able to be bought, and you know it. Just as it was impossible to buy the rector of the Jagiellonian University and the rector of the Academy of Economics, when we jointly set up the International Centre for Democracy Development to support Polish democracy, and when we transformed it into the Institute of Strategic Studies, which was to prepare and prepare for years, organize conferences, publish more than 100 books and dozens of different publicities so that the Polish authorities could strengthen its position on the international stage. Your charge is against you. I guess that's what you do. I never did. Rector of Jagiellonian University never did either. Rector of the University of Economics in Krakow never. None of the three founders of this facility ever came to mind to ask sponsors about their views when they were sponsoring something. Incidentally, I'm going to point out that the main sponsors of the foundation and institute were Americans. It is thanks to the American funds from the National Endowment for Democracy, the same foundation that allowed us to publish independent books in the underground, the same foundation that enabled us to conduct underground activities in "Solidarity', the Independent Student Association, in a cross-party convention foundation founded in 1984, that there was a foundation founded by the Jagiellonian University, the University of Economics and me as a natural person. Later, in addition to the National Endowment for Democracy, there was The German Marshall Fund of the United States, an institution worthy of promoting, so to speak, Euro-Atlantic cooperation, i.e. cooperation. Poland with the United States. I'll tell you the open text: I'm sending you back to all publications, books and extrabooks, where three fundamental themes dominate. Firstly, how to make Poland enter NATO as soon as possible and establish its position in NATO after accession. That was the first target, the target still stands. Secondly, how to make Poland join the European Union as soon as possible and strengthen its position in the European Union, because it will make it safer. And thirdly, how to help democrats in the East, among others. in countries as undemocratic as Belarus, through programmes for the opposition. Thanks to these programs for the opposition foundation, the institute was named by Lukashenka as a terrorist organization. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u130	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm in correction mode too.]] Did they mention your name? [[The subject I brought up was...]] [[The minister was talking about it.]] [[No, I'm talking about some of the thesis that Senator Czerwinski put forward here. I'm very...]] Mr. Senator, I'd ask you to sign up for five more minutes. [[I've already had five minutes.]] You've already had it, yes... [[Voice from the room: He already had one.]] [[The senator had his five minutes.]] Well, you used it. It's all there. [[But about the corrigendum, I'd like to...]] [[But it's about context.]] [[Background...]] There you go. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u131	I've appreciated Senator Czerwinski very much so far for saying that there's a certain logic of speech, but this time, well, I can't confirm it. Mr. Senator, the argument that anyone who supports the PiS actions and the decisions of the PiS government, in this case in the matter of reparation, is a patriot, and whoever does not support it, is a traitor and a marketplacer, is a primitive thesis and you are unworthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u132	Thank you. Now let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I've prepared a longer speech, but I'll cut it short. 'Cause first, I wanted to conclude, just like Senator Dobrzyński, Mr. Senator Czerwiński warmed up the atmosphere... I agree with much of Senator Czerwiński's statement. Please remember that this is our first meeting after a long break and the senators would like to give you a lot of information. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, I agree with you that there are various types of blockades. As you know, I'm an electric car enthusiast, and I've been promoting it all along. And at the first meeting. . November 2015 In the Ministry of Development, on the question of whether someone can block us in the development of this car, one of the vice ministers directly replied: yes. And he mentioned the names of German automotive companies. I didn't believe it. Now it's autumn 2017 and I'm starting to look at this problem differently. But I am going back to the point because I would like to thank the Minister. This item concerns the report on the work of the European Union during January Minister, I would like to thank you, as our minister, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, because you are an outstanding person who eases customs. I want to thank you for your comments, which are always very thoughtful and unattacking. That's not enough. I just want to say that we miss people like that very much. It's not about arguing with everyone. I am very pleased with your answer that every problem in the European Union, the problem of Poland, Polish laws, we consider separately and do not connect them. I would like that to be true, because it allows us to differentiate the weight of every problem. We cannot approach Polish press publications and attacks in the forest as much as we do our gas safety. I thought it was close, but it turns out that Croatia has signed a contract with Gazprom and our gas hub is already in question. So that maybe our offensive in foreign policy, the weight of problems is not equally understood. Perhaps not everyone understands that the most important thing is the safety of Poland. Playing has its meaning, but that meaning is minimal. We can talk about meaning in terms of Mr Szyszko has already calculated this. For some billions of zlotys. What's this? It doesn't matter. Foreign policy is not only about effectiveness, but also about the ability to compromise and adapt to the opportunities we have. And sometimes I see in this foreign policy such examples that we have no opportunities, and we raise our voice. The voice rises when you are sure that you are right, that the scene is prepared for this and that you have the strength behind you. That's it, actually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speech during this debate It is important, because it concerns the Polish state's right, and we are faced with a discussion in which direction She should be on her way. They forced me to speak. First of all, I would like to express my condolences to the Minister. You have not convinced the entire Senate of your views, including views, to be somewhat sceptical of the activities of the institutions of the European Union, which you have expressed in response to my question. In particular, you did not convince your political background, because these chimeras about fraud or even theft, as well as the close bankruptcy of the European Union and the European institutions, were revived. I'm taking the floor for another reason. I am prepared to discuss or even argue with Senator Czerwinski, who put this question: can we not be someone else? than just a member of the European Union, in its sense of bad, inhibiting, as he said, restricting Poland's development? That is indeed the question you asked earlier than you did. And he immediately answered himself Father Rydzyk. But it's an important question. The point is whether we need to be committed, so to speak, to one development concept, especially since there are several countries in Europe that do not belong and are well in the European Union. But I'm not having this discussion because it's not the topic of this conversation today. What made me speak is facts. Facts. And here I would like to argue with your engineer, with Senator Dobrzyński, as well as with other people, ladies and gentlemen, about this exploitation by the European Union. I'll speak engineering. There's someone with a very good ax, but no woods or trees. And there's a second country, a neighborhood country that has forests, but there's no axes. They can hang out for the rest of their lives anyway. The forest will grow, and the axe will rust and there will be no use for it. And behold, someone comes with such a human philosophy: I help you to help me; I will buy you an axe, or I will credit you with this axe, and I will allow you to buy a forest. And suddenly the economy begins. And that's the truth Mr. Dobrzyński, the engineer and the voivode doesn't understand that trade is a driving force. And if we talk about factor influence, about what Poland has developed In the opinion of the State, it has turned into a ruin This is, among other things, the case. trade, primarily trade with the European Union. I am so old, I can remind you, Senator Dobrzyński, that trade... [[I'm not much younger, Senator.]] I'm so old... [[I'm younger? I'm glad to hear it.]] ...that the trade in Socialist Poland with the West was at the level of 20 billion. You might want to remind me what the world is now... $360 billion. There is no doubt that companies Not politicians, because we have nothing to do with this trade. And the farmers you once represented have profits. If they had added, like in the commune, they would have been on strike. As you can see, under the rule of the PiS, they don't strike. Because the essence of the commune was that they were being exploited... Therefore, one of the grounds for Poland's profits is trade with the European Union, which links the axe to the forest, as you should remember. You mentioned Ferguson, Ursus... [[About Ursus it's...]] Yeah, if I could just give him $15 million... I speak as an engineer... [[It's just...]] If you'd put 15 million dollars in it like that, we'd have a factory today to measure up to the American Deere. Mr. Senator... [[We'd be able to sell the farmers...]] Don't think that... [[Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, there is no discussion.]] ...there were so many stupid politicians on different sides who rejected this proposal. There were politicians who, with the support of Prime Minister Olszewski, spooked, screamed or duped that they had been given property of Ursus' factory. I'm sorry to say, actually, I don't think it's even a good thing... Because they turned this factory into a religious center of Jehovah's witnesses. It was the result of Ursus's not being covered with money that wasn't there, you didn't bring it back. And that's why Ursus had to upgrade, but not for $15 million, but for a lot more. That's not the point... I'm going back to the trade issue. Ursusa Poles could build perhaps better than ferguson... You couldn't, you had to sell it, for example. Indians. The Indian news that the best tractor in the world, ursus, is... He won't buy it because he prefers ferguson, because that's the kind of knowledge he has. Thus, even ferguson produced under an English license would not be sold. That's one thing. The ax and the forest must be connected. Thanks to this the whole world is developing, and Poland in particular. You say, Mr. Senator, that they're forcing operations on us. And the operation, Mr. Senator Engineer, consists not only in opening borders for Polish goods... Trade, export of Polish agricultural goods achieves record results of 24 billion. Your government's bragging about it. And you're right. Sir, does a farmer have to pay something for getting paid? [[Why would he pay? He deserves it.]] You say the Union is taking away our... Well, then he should pay back the money, and then the interest, if he's taking it away... [[And every now and then...]] All he gets is that he's a farmer. [[Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, I draw your attention. Would you like me to put you to the floor?]] For being a Polish farmer, he gets subsidies. Of course, they don't decide everything, but they get it. The Ukrainian won't get it. The Russian and the American won't get it. [[Because they're not in the Union.]] The Polish farmer will get it and for many years he will receive it, praise God. [[And German and French get more.]] More... You promised me you'd get it done. I'm waiting for it. I'm gonna give it a round of applause. He gets money he doesn't have to pay back for his background. It's a thing... Well, the question is, doesn't he have to send that money to the West some other way? I'm saying no. For agricultural production we need tractor, plant protection products... Unfortunately, they're better foreign, but I don't want to praise any country here. The weight of work and products is so great, it's 80%. It makes more money, as can be seen in the accompanying picture of the Polish village. The issue on which Poland has benefited... I allow myself, Mr. Engineer, to speak as an engineer. And examples. There were 300 engineers, such as you and me, who worked at the Bike Bike Bike Bike Bike Brewery, where I worked. And the password was thrown to buy an element, a hub, you know about it. It's for the bike. The West refused to sell us because he was afraid of communist aggression, that we would abandon all forces... Sir, none of these Polish engineers came up with anything. Anyone who did this gave up or promoted to secretary of the party and got an apartment. My point is that the opening to the West, the political act of integration not only with the European Union, Senator, but with the whole world, which was a condition for various credit and other operations, has caused these hubs to be. They were not invented by Polish engineers, which I struggle with, but they are and are cheap. Finally, at the end... Yeah, I agree it's not like it's helping. only charitable, in particular from countries outside the Union, where there is freedom to shape trade relations. And among others. In fact, a lot of banks have arrived under this freedom, which is an operation. That's what I think. That was out of control. Because banks are the biggest and easiest way to pass a lot of capital. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. And it has happened that the government of PiS has begun to recolonise, which could mean a good tendency to leave control of banks, the nerve of the market economy, in the country. But recently I heard that the one who worked at a foreign bank that had a lot of money coming out of the country, and he was getting a pretty good salary for it. What I'm not saying, because it's right that he was given a sudden return to Poland by JP Morgan bank, an American bank. I don't know if it's recolonization. I know it's a very strong bank with a very creative role not to say dictatorial. And this bank, the famous... Not this, but another bank, which has taken the risk of reducing the value of the Polish currency, will be in Poland. But what is the justification of this light man, the minister? That Poles won't have to. Literally. They're just gonna work here. [[JP Morgan's bank.]] JP Morgan's bank. See how much the employees at the American banks make. Ask them what rights they have to consolidate the union. There's an American bank... [[Mr. Senator...]] Ask these people. [[And that's the end of it.]] Don't believe that a Pole in this bank agency JP Morgan will earn as much as an American banker in New York. Those are facts and only facts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u136	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina. [[Mr. Marshal, half a minute to correct.]] As a correction, of course. You've been mentioned many times. [[Yes.]] Senator Dobrzyński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'd like my speech to have such an effect that, of course, I don't blame anyone. I look in terms of the Polish state. We were not prepared, Mr Senator, to change the system and were not prepared to absorb as powerful money as we have received from the European Union. That's all I wanted to say. If we were prepared for this Maybe we couldn't be, that's another thing. This situation in our country would be different simply. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u138	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein. He's already in the podium. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, very interesting discussion, surprising conclusions. I'm kind of treating them as a form of fun for the rulers today. We are, as Poland, a member of the European Union, a member of NATO. We've been trying to do this for years. We felt that this was the basis of our security, both in Europe and in the world. We stayed, we are, so to speak. A fully-fledged member. And in this situation... And we have been building our position, such a strong position over the last few years, that we have been considered one of the three most important members in the European Union, players in the international arena, including NATO. Contrary to appearances, our position was very strong. And today, for the last year and a half, we've been doing everything and acting a little bit like children in the family, knowing, because I think the government knows that a lot of rulers and a lot of politicians on your side know that. That after all that we can fool around, play, irritate, fight, tore up our brother or sister for parts of our clothes, and even sometimes, let's say, gently rub... But we know that if the situation is dangerous, dangerous, then those older ones, so parents, help us, save us, and so on. So it's our behavior that's completely absurd, it's so childish. I apologize here, children, because they often make more rational decisions. And that's the tragedy. We were already in a really good situation when it comes to Poland's position in Europe, we could play things in such a way that the Polish voice was very important. Today we are on the margins of European policy, as a result of policies implemented by the Government of Law and Justice. And, contrary to appearances, also within NATO we are on the margin and we are having credibility. Government action today is so absurd that sometimes it's funny. Not so long ago, he was bought from the private hands of the fallen Autosan. The Prime Minister says this Autosan guy's gonna get a government job. And there's a tender for buses. The Minister of National Defense says this is a tender for Autosan. At the same time, it violates all the rules relating to public procurement, because public procurement are conditions of equal competition, and pointing out by the rulers you will win, you will get this tender, it is simply legally unacceptable. But the fun's on. And what does it turn out to be? Who wins in this game? Not the Autosan who didn't even make the order. What's more, he wasn't able to produce such buses at all But it's a foreign company. [[German.]] Oh, even German. Well, ladies and gentlemen... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Impossible.]] Impossible. [[Herezia.]] So, ladies and gentlemen... [[Don't laugh, 'cause it's more like tears...]] What's the situation... [[You don't understand.]] What is the situation of other Polish bus manufacturers? They say, "We cannot compete in tenders, for it is all set." So this is how Polish and European policies are implemented today. Ladies and gentlemen, this spring he was elected President of the European Council for the next term of office of President Donald Tusk. There have been controversies around this case. The government had doubts, even voted against it. But the president was elected. And now my question is: how much in European and world politics did we use this unique position of Pole, which Poland has never had in international politics? How much did the foreign minister use this special, unique position? No action, even turning around, or harming Poland. So this is fun. Polish only for political ambitions. Now, in the last few days, there's been a UN forum where you attended the president. There were important speeches... We can argue about this, we can discuss it, but this is not the subject of our meeting today. President Donald Tusk also spoke. Were there any meetings arranged by the Minister of Foreign Affairs so that this important global meeting could be used to strengthen Poland's position? Of course not. There was turning your back, insulting and destruction. Putting in the politics of the Polish case so that there is only an alternative Poland or Germany, is, of course, an act to the detriment of the Polish state, to the detriment of Poles, to all of us. There's no alternative. Of course, there are various interests: Germans, Poles, German companies, Polish companies. But putting it in the form of an alternative, in the form of a state alternative, is an absolute damage. So I think to myself this way: what the government is doing today it is, unfortunately, harmful to Poland in matters relating to European policy, including economic and other policies. And we're gonna pay very dearly for that. A pity, a pity, because there could also have been a time when law and justice had, as has been said here, also good ideas, some even very good... But it is because of such complexes that it is said that we Poles are basically the only ones special. When President Trump said in New York that Poles were special and so on, we were so delighted... And that's basically the beginning of the road, that's actually a little gesture that could be used for better things. And we, the rulers, are ruining it all today and we're wasting it. Rebuilding it will be hard work, it seems even for generations. The reconstruction of Poland's position, which Poland built in the first stage of membership of the European Union, when it was such an important, important partner with which everyone was concerned, often disagreed, but they counted and recognized all of this, it will be almost, well, I will not say that impossible, but extremely difficult, because it will be difficult for our European partners to believe that if they agree with Poland on something, we will keep our word. And that's the drama we live in today. And I think the sooner you as the governing party today will reflect on this, the easier it will be for us to come up with a variety of problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u140	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We were to deal with information for the Sejm and for the Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union. Two statements, Senator B Member and Senator Czerwinski, at least a little bit of me from those barriers under which we were to discuss, ripped me out. Because if we are in the Union, if the people and all the political forces in the referendum say we should be there, then let us discuss our actions within the Union. I take your statements as questioning the sense of being in the European Union at all. If there are collegial decisions and, as we said, there are games of interest, then we have the right and everyone in Poland, including the Government of Law and Justice, has the right to play every possible piano. But he was talking about it, that's how I take it, Minister. We have different interests, those countries have different interests, and we need to work together sometimes, sometimes in one group, pushing our own opinion, our own point of view in this community. Even if I do not fully agree with this point of view, diplomacy is precisely about being able to win certain groups of interests, trying to win them for yourself. And now either we're going to do this without the prejudices that Senator Czerwiński was talking about... Because you, Mr. Senator, put the argument here that our de facto enemy is Germany. More, you went to the point where you suggested that anyone who works with the Germans somehow, cooperates with them, is a man who works for the detriment of Poland. Well, how would you take my statement if I said today that your commitment to Polish-Ukrainian relations, to which you have a very strong, negative attitude... He is the result of the past, of course, but these events are projected today. Well, you're so hard on the Ukrainian case, you're questioning 20 years of a certain idea for Polish foreign policy, because you're creating a rift. After all, this idea, which for many years and most governments have not been questioned in any way, the idea of building something with the Ukrainians in contrast to Russia, was an axis of our policy. Well, how would you react if someone told you that this was a pro-Russian action, unworthy of Polish and Polish affairs? Remember two national heroes. I understand you're closer to Dmowski. As a matter of fact, I am, too. [[Who?]] Dmowski. As a matter of fact, he's closer to me than Piłsudski. Was Dmowski a traitor because he was working with the Russians? Would you say that working with the Germans and with the Austrians, Piłsudski betrayed Poland? Oh, no. [[Well, you don't know.]] They were possessors, but when these political decisions were made, some calculations were made that would lead to freedom. How can such a direct attack exclude Germany from our spectrum of interest? Why should we deny ourselves the ability to play with them and play joint interests? And if you argue that anyone who cooperates with the Germans is not a patriot, then there will be such a vision in Polish society that we can only communicate with them. And we also need, as I said today, good relations with France. I asked what had happened, that Polish diplomacy was not able to send any ambassador there for a year. After all, this is not a problem regarding whether we are to cooperate with France at all or not. It's such a problem that if we're different from seeing things... I'm not gonna talk about the forest, because this is obviously a different subject. That is not what we are talking about right now, we are talking about a strategic approach to our future. And even if we're different, it's absolutely clear that we can't afford not to have an ambassador for over a year. And he wasn't in a few countries. I understand it's just as annoying for me as it is for you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, I'm talking about the senators' colleagues. This is a mistake, a certain omission, because there should be, even as you wanted, a tough negotiator who would beat the table with his fist. You want this diplomacy, that's okay. Maybe she's better. Yeah, but not to send anyone? Have a void? I do now. You could say we have it right now. That's a fact. A far worse relationship with the Ukrainians than we had two years ago. We also have a much worse relationship with the French. I feel like we're gonna have a worse relationship with the Germans in a moment because of these speeches and the climate that we're building. So, objectively, we're weakening our inner position. Let's just say, like... I have to say this after listening to some of my colleagues. We are merely adding, saying that it is very bad with this whole European Union. We can listen to what Senator Dobrzyński said in his ad vocem, that we got so much money that we couldn't digest it all... [[We couldn't.]] Yes. We couldn't digest it. But that would mean we got something after all. Yes? That means the stream was headed our way, not that they cleaned us out. If you're trying to tell me that 20 years in the European Union... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...hasn't changed our country... [[That's interesting. Let him speak, Mr. Marshal.]] ...I can't agree with you. Some of your speeches I read them a little bit. They are a delicate vote of distrust towards our foreign policy. Excuse me, but I'm allowed to read some of the words. So far, we're in there. There's our profit, our business and our safety. But we didn't talk about safety today. We were talking about migrants. And that's where we can be different again. Okay, you could've reacted faster. Everything could have been done differently. There's a full agreement here. But there is also full agreement that by the fact that we are here where we are, it is not with us, but behind our eastern border, that the Zapad action is in Belarus. And we're the fallout. We're on the other side. We're under an umbrella. If it weren't for all of this, we'd have maneuvers like this, and we'd be looking at the Germans and saying there's a trapdoor. That's what we looked at throughout the Polish People's Republic and we were excited about anti-German moods. [[Mr. Senator, slowly finish.]] I wish I could just... [[Spontaneous.]] I mean, I don't speak German, I don't have any ties to the Germans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my previous statement, there were really two threads. There was nothing about Ukraine and contrary to appearances there was nothing about Germany in general. I refer here to the legal logic of Senator Pociej. There may be matters which are neither of the interests of Germany nor Poles, i.e. Neither Germany as a country nor Poland. There may be matters that are of interest in Germany and Poland, for which we have the same relationship. Foreign trade is an example here. No one's saying it's wrong that we're dealing with the Germans. Now it's our biggest importer and exporter. I don't think the Germans are questioning the benefits of trade with Poland either. But there could also be cases. This is the last type of case, and this division is closed. In the case of which the interests of Poland and Germany are contrary. And the issue of reparation is just like that. And in these matters, unfortunately, it is necessary to speak up. either this side or this side. So much for that. As for Mr. Bogdan Klich's correction, I was talking, Mr. Senator, about facts, and you were talking about insinuations. As for Mr. Marshal Borowski's voice, who can't hear me, it's read... Mr. Marshal, I was hoping for more, but let's just leave it the way it is. And now, please, ad rem, that is to say. Two speeches were very interesting from my point of view. Mr Rulewski is no longer in Senator Rulewski's room, and he raised a very interesting topic, namely he mentioned some examples of how it would be beneficial to be in the European Union. Except the senator mentioned some examples that I would agree with, too. Well, at 95%. The speech he made, I'd sign it. Because he was talking about this union we joined, imagining... which was created at the beginning, as a free trade zone, as a movement of thoughts, people, capital, goods, services, etc. We want to be in this union. This is the kind of union we are defending right now. Because what France is doing is against these initial assumptions. And the fact that the Union was, in quotes, degenerate at some point I don't know when it was. And he's trying to force everyone to think ideologically so that they all think the same way, that they have the same ideals, the same family model, and so on... Do you by any chance not know this country, those who live longer in this world? Because I do. I know of such a system and a country that required the same thinking, same ideology, even some managed to introduce the same uniforms. It's not the kind of union we've been in. We have entered the Union of equal countries that could interact with each other. And now we have competition in the Union. Within this Union, there is the greatest competition, perhaps more than with external countries. The question is, can this change? And here's a thread I didn't mention in my previous statement. Because on the one hand, we have imposed these In quotation marks The ideals, but on the other hand, it is not that everyone in Europe misses these ideals, that they confess them. Some voted in the same way as the United Kingdom, disagreeing with such a Union, disagreeing with such a direction of development of this, apologizing for the expression, collective farm, going in a different direction, coming out of it, voting their legs. ♪ And we're still ♪ And this is where I urge the Minister. We want to heal this Union so that it is not an ideological formation that will be to us, I don't know, e.g. Because of some ecological fantasy, she forbade the use of light bulbs. 'Cause I want a simple light bulb at home, not halogen or some other one that gives in my eyes and just at some point. It's bad for your eyes. I just want a light bulb. Can I or can't I? No, not in the Union. In a normal country Yeah. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm on my way back to serious business. Either this will be a well-defined single body, or sovereign states linked to very close trade, freedom of movement of capital, services, people, etc. We still have a chance to heal this Union. And that is what I call for, Minister. You're a very efficient politician if you can pardon this side of the political scene. Everyone likes you. Use it. Efficiency, expertise, some kind of co-ordination... Show us what Poland really is about. We are not an unhealthy child, who cannot be calmed down, unhappy, who only says, "Give, give, give." No. We want to be in a normal EU family, not a deviant family, just. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz is speaking at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I was watching the Minister's face just after meeting with the Vice-President of the Iranian Parliament. That's why I wasn't in the O.R. watching your face when the words of one of the senators were saying, whose name I don't want to mention, so I don't give him a chance to correct, and I think you'll be in a lot of trouble. Fortunately, people in the European Union who mostly read and are experienced, especially those who enter politics, understand that not every senator can be a diplomat. Well, it's a pretty tough play, you deal with it, but it's not my intention, God forbid, to judge you because it's not even right. I have to tell you, there's a lot of work ahead of you to explain some of the words that came out here. These words made me, even though I have my point in the moment, come to this debate, very appalled. Because it is unacceptable for me to listen to the words that we only regained our freedom two years ago, and to listen to one of the important Polish politicians and the man who was arrested, as a young man, is accused of things for me unbelievable. I suspect that if it weren't for the correction of Senator Klich, my speech would have been a lot harsher because I'm an emotional man as an artist. But since the Senate is a place of seriousness and exchange of views at the level, I'm trying to master it. If someone is speaking to me in the presence of Marshal Borusewicz and many of you here about the fact that freedom was regained only two years ago, forgetting that in 2005 and 2007, President Lech Kaczyński and Mr Jarosław Kaczyński ruled the sacred memory, I cannot go on. I believe that the minutes of this speech will be shown as disgraceful. As a lesson in the disgraceful behaviour of the senator in the presence of very responsible people. If the senator says that we have gained freedom thanks to John Paul II and Reagan, I take it with great respect. But I wouldn't be ashamed to say that Lech Wałęsa gave us this freedom here to Marshal Borusewicz. Whom I thank, once again But also Mr. Star, Mrs. Valentinovich, Mr. Fox... I will also mention my Krakow friends with whom I had the honour of working with: Mr Gil, Mr Handzlik, our longtime marshal, Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski. And actually, I'd like to end this speech because I don't want to take it from you. more time. But Mr. Klich's correction is very important to all of us, and it will reach our city, Krakow, from these protocols. Because I am a witness to how you set up an institution that continues to defend Polish democracy perfectly and represents Poland in many very important discussions at a very serious level. So far. And thank you for that. Finally, I want to say something very, very upbuilding to me. About today's meeting, the dinner I attended, under the direction of Marshal Sewerinski, with people who are completely different religion, Islamic religion, whose theoretically part of the Polish society opposes. But we were talking about love, we were talking about cooperation, we were talking about great culture, about Shiraz, about Persepolis... I think our country, in the context of creators, has been free for a long time, but this freedom may be threatened by isolation. Isolation is a word that does not mean occupation, it does not mean enslavement. Isolation is such a quiet, delicate departure from cooperation at one level or another. I value the Minister. That's what I've said a few times over here. And I see a very serious task ahead of you, as well as a very serious responsibility. If we are readers of history, then we realize As serious and responsible people That history often shows us its crooked and malicious smile. This responsibility, Minister, is linked to your resume for the next few years. I hope you can handle it. If necessary, as I suspect after hearing those statements of the opposition senators to whom I belong, we will help you. I would not want our country to be an isolated country through certain behaviours and statements, including through certain actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u146	Thank you, Senator. I'm gonna ask Senator Jack Włosowicz to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u147	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to address the Minister first, thanking him for this report. Because it wasn't your programme speech, as it sometimes fell out of my colleagues' mouth, but a report on what was going on under the leadership of Malta in the last six months. Minister, I can't tell you officially that... we're colleagues from the same political trend, so it would be so hard to articulate directly that I thank you for the substantive, synthetic, brilliant and diplomatic statement, because it would be in its own way to praise your colleague. All these assessments of your speech have come out of the mouth of our Senate colleagues, who are currently the opposition, so that I don't have to repeat it. And as a colleague, I was very pleased to hear that your work and your skills have been assessed so well. This discussion we've had for almost six hours, very interesting... this afternoon in this room, at least that's what it is to me. Many arguments on the left to the right point to the importance of our belonging to the European Union. Your report, Minister, has led us to this in some way. This is probably the best time... On the occasion of your reports, we can talk more about the European Union. Your arguments and opinions, which I have heard here, are very important to me, very informative. Different views that have been presented, sometimes emotions... I wouldn't dare judge those. But it's hard for us to be completely deprived of them on such important matters. The few minutes I have, I'd like to devote more time to discussing the financial issues. The topics that have been raised today... these 10 minutes do not allow me to relate to them in detail. The discussion about the future of the European Union, about the visions that have been presented, was very interesting, as I said. There have also been, particularly from my club colleagues, voices that have more pointed to a critical analysis of the European institutions' activities. Well, not all 10, but the 3 or 4 most important ones. I believe that this criticism was not to criticize, but to draw conclusions on how these institutions could work even better in the future. On-going issues of the financing of the European Union have also been discussed, particularly as regards the leaving of the European Union by the United Kingdom and the financial consequences. There was a very sensitive issue of immigrants. I would also add the question of some countries that I think are starting or already having problems... e.g. France, which used to be a country colonizing other countries, especially in Africa, and now, I think, the situation has turned around and France itself is colonized. There have also been analyses and examples of our current situation in the European Union that on the one hand we are getting up from our knees and on the other hand we are alienating from the mainstream. These are, of course, issues of individual assessment. In his report, the Minister said what opportunities we have for our position in the Union to be strengthened so that we can be seen there as a concrete, strong country with different channels of implementation of the possibilities of both diplomatic, parliamentary and lobbyist... That's what we mentioned here today. However, as I said, I would like to devote these few minutes to the issue of finance and I would like to make two points. The first is the means that our farmers receive, because one of the senators also said that we now promised it would be better. Well, you have to go back to history, until 2002, when I haven't been actively involved in politics, because, I guess, there's an original reason for why it is so and not different. And as with the Cohesion Fund, we have received more than other countries that are members of the European Union that have joined, the last ten, so in this case I don't know why. Our negotiators agreed that Polish farmers should receive subsidies which were and are unfortunately still smaller than subsidies that their colleagues receive from other Western European countries. I am thinking especially about the main producers of agricultural products, Germany, France, Denmark and the Netherlands. I think that then, as a country with a lower level of development, we should receive these subsidies nominally higher than these main producers, and then, with the growing position of Polish agriculture, the European Union should expect us to come down from this level and negotiate. Well, unfortunately, that didn't happen. Not only did we not receive more, but we received much less. Later these amounts increased in the following years, but even now they do not constitute an EU average. One of the senators said we promised... It so happens that I was a member of the European Parliament in 2011, when there was a question of a new financial perspective and a new idea for the CAP. I was one of two MPs... I presented this proposal at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and, unfortunately, only you from Polish Members At that time, the European Parliament Wojciechowski supported my proposal. The point was, since there was such a big problem with the development of a new distribution system for farmers, we should I said that they made the simplest solution: they left out Greece, which has a really difficult geographical management, took all the resources we have for the common agricultural policy, divided them by the number of hectares and gave everyone the same quantity per hectare. Well, there were even people from France who said that, indeed, if we can't work out a new formula, then maybe that's the way to approach it. Unfortunately, later the case was blurry, dragged on. In the European Parliament, we felt that there was no desire to introduce a new solution. So what won? She won the so-called victory. historical formula. So the one who had more still has more, and the one who had less, unfortunately, has less. This is indeed a task not only for the Polish government, but also for us, for parliamentarians. We should talk about this, because unfortunately, in 2011, neither the peasant MEPs nor even the Minister of Agriculture of that time made such a proposal. This is indeed a very difficult role, because we know that we will then I'm speaking for Polish farmers. Another big player in the agricultural market of the European Union. Now I'd like to move on to finance. Mr. Marshal Borowski raised some issues and I would like to address them, but not in a critical way, without emphasising that I do not like it. I would like to analytically approach this financial situation that we are currently in. I will not emotionally refer to whether the more than 82 billion euros we have negotiated are little or much. I take this as a shore condition. These over 82 billion are at the current rate, as we can estimate more or less. It's not an analytical calculation, it's an estimate. Some 350 billion zlotys. If we divide it arithmetically into seven years, it'll be 50 billion a year. Of course, there are also issues that would be different between us. It is about how many of these funds stay in the country, and how many companies that participate in tenders and win them as honestly as possible, they export them abroad. I met, in the European Parliament, with three analyses that showed that it was from 64% to 89% What I didn't want to believe. The analytical method that was presented in this report was, in my opinion, incorrect. This analysis, which I believe Mr. Marshal Borowski was talking about today. I don't know, Mr. Senator, if I'm wrong. That's about 40%. , I haven't read, but even if we assume that 60% is going abroad and 40% is going abroad It would turn out that out of these 50 billion 30 billion companies are recovering from the European Union, and 20 billion are staying with us, but this is... [[Mr. Senator, please conclude.]] I'll be right with you. There's another count. We must also remember that we pay the premium. This contribution is approx. 1% GDP. Today, our GDP is less than PLN 2 trillion. I hope that in the following years it will be over 2 trillion, but if we assume that it will be 2 trillion, then our annual contribution will be about 20 billion each year over the seven years. We will therefore pay 140 billion in four years, and we will receive 350 billion. So we get 210 billion for seven years. If we divide it by seven, it's going to be 30 billion a year. If we take the ratio of 0.6 again, 18 billion will go abroad and 12 billion will stay with us. In no way will I dare say I'm criticizing this. I would just like to show that these measures are such a superat, a cream, a surplus that we should use optimally. Senator Dobrzyński pointed out that sometimes we are not prepared for this. I would also like to show that these 12 or 20 billion zlotys a year, however we hope, are not the means we could not afford in the country. I'd like to share with you my view that we didn't get that money. As every member, they belong to us. It is the clou of our membership of the Union, only that we are in this international family and we are taking advantage of the synergy effect. In a very graphic but simple way, Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Senator, let's put a dot here.]] Now. ...Rulewski, who said that when there is an axe and there is a forest, sometimes these things need to be combined. This is how I imagine our presence in the European Union. Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Since the year 2000 the European Union's motto has been "United in diversity." I hope that this will remain the case and that each of us will enjoy this diversity, boast about it, invite each other and these differences of potential will be the basis of our growth and development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u148	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are already approaching the end of our debate on the European Union. I just wanted to say that some senators say that this is not the kind of union we have joined. It seems to me that this is wrong thinking. In fact, in some voices I heard that we were joining something like the former European Coal and Steel Community, founded in 1952. No. We joined the European Union, which was founded in 1993. In 1994 we agreed that we were going to join the European Union and for 10 years different governments, different parties, various coalitions negotiated Poland's accession to the European Union. Probably not everything was negotiated well and best, as we would like, but in an absolutely conscious way we joined the Union as it is. This does not mean that the Union will be as it was in 1993 when it was founded. Earlier there was the European Economic Community, which was founded in 1958. So what we have today is the result of long-term cooperation, integration of European countries. What else is ahead of us as members of the European Union, before the European Union? It's a big unknown. But surely the main determinant of the further integration of the countries of the European Union will be the single currency of the euro. If we do not see it to the full or as if we are pushing ourselves out of this discussion about the euro or we say that we want to be outside the euro Although in the Treaties, in the accession documents we committed ourselves to the introduction of the euro We're also marginalizing ourselves as a country. So I think we should really keep that in mind, too. And the last sentence. One senator said that in 1990, but also in 1989, probably also in 1980, we weren't prepared, we weren't prepared enough to take power. That if we started this revolution later, it would be better. I don't agree with that. In 1990, I was the mayor. Probably many colleagues here, especially the older ones, have already been actively involved in these great changes at that time. Of course, we didn't always do everything right, we learned many things from a living organism. But if at that time... And we also realized that things also happen outside of us, as if they were even independent of us. If we were still saying no at the time, no, let's leave the communists two, three, four years, five, ten years, then we'd be in a completely different situation. So such a yearning for the Polish People's Republic, which can be heard in some voices, is sad. But that's another discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u150	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was originally not going to speak, especially since unfortunately for objective reasons I was not happy to hear the Minister's report, but after listening to the voices I was given, I decided to take the floor. I would like to remind you of what was the basis for the creation of the European Communities, which subsequently became the European Union. Namely, it is a system of values which was intended to lead to closer cooperation between nations in order to avoid the spectrum of armed conflict for the third time, a conflict which was twice caused by no one but Germany. And the origin of the European Community was just the European Coal and Steel Community, which was created to control steel production, not by anyone else, but by Germany. This has subsequently developed into the European Economic Community and has finally turned into the European Union. And we, when we joined the European Union, as the Holy Father said, joined not a Europe in which we were long ago, only an international organisation and brought our achievements, our culture and our traditions, and not only our original ones, but also those related to Slavicism, Eastern Europe. Because, as the Holy Father has said beautifully, the European Union should breathe with two lungs, the West and the East. And the thing of Poland is full participation, full, not on your knees, not from a asking position or just from a thanking position. Yes, we have something to thank for being accepted into the European Union, but we deserve it, because after leaving the communist system we have made changes, first of all free elections, principles of rule of law and full democracy, which have given us full membership in this body. Of course, it is easier to make political changes than economic changes, so we had to have a little more time for these economic ones, more time to get closer to the West, to the European Union. However, this does not entitle anyone to treat Poland as a member of the second category. Unfortunately, sometimes, especially in recent years, especially in the last 2 years, I have the impression of such treatment, observing the behaviour of some members of the European Union, I am referring mainly to France and Germany, or the whole of the European Union, here I am referring to these various speeches, interfering with Poland's internal affairs, for example on the issue of retirement age. It must be made clear that there are competences that the European Union has and that there are competences that it does not have. There's a strict distinction. Maybe it is not as precise as it should be, because what was invented, or the Treaty of Lisbon, is, unfortunately, such an premature newborn of the European Constitution, which was intended to come up with and which was intended to go towards something in my opinion completely aberrationary, because it wanted to create a United States of Europe rather than an organism that consisted of independent, sovereign states cooperating within the European Union... Hence, this work is certainly very imperfect from the legal side, but not so much so that the European Union allows itself to enter increasingly new fields, new domains and, for example, new domains. teaching Poland about the retirement age. On this point, I would also like to say that the European Union is making a serious mistake, because on the one hand, in the Treaty of Lisbon, in the article. 6 provides that it accedes to the European Convention on Human Rights and, on the other hand, does not respect the judgments given by the European Court in Strasbourg against that Convention. I mean meddling in the issue of retirement age, which has been regulated in Poland at the moment, we know how. I don't think the Union remembers Unfortunately, it is also a question of what kind of law not so much as lawyers are involved. On the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the Stec case against the United Kingdom, in which the European Court of Human Rights ruled that this was an internal matter of individual states and that no one could interfere with the retirement age of the State concerned if there was a distinction between men and women, unless this age was set on a completely voluntary basis, it could be said that the absurdity of this differentiation was rubbing off. In the explanatory memorandum, the Court stated that there are countries which, because of certain traditions, the culture and mission that women have to fulfil, determine for women a retirement age lower than for men as a hub of an outbreak. And it is worth knowing that the leaders of the European Union, specifically the European Commission, are aware of the case law of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Since the Union has acceded to the Convention, it is obliged to respect the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The Treaty of Nice of 2000, which became part of the Treaty of Lisbon, explicitly provides that the interpretations applied by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on the rights which in the Treaty of Lisbon are similar to those of the European Convention on Human Rights... These rulings, these interpretations of the Strasbourg Court, are binding on the European Union. It's worth reminding you of that. That's one thing. The second point concerns what is the European Union's field of action at all. It must be borne in mind that it must not enter into matters relating to morals and faith. Besides, we, when moving to the Treaty of Lisbon, have made it clear that, in matters relating to education, morality and family, we do not give in to the European Union's decisions, because these are matters so connected with the system of values that we respect, that we will not give in to the pressure of the majority here. I was once asked to speak on this subject at one of the scientific conferences and I said that we did not liberate ourselves from Soviet hegemony to submit to the European Union's hegemony on certain issues. And I must say, the reaction to those words was very favorable. My colleagues approached me at lunchtime and said, "Mr. Counselor, it's very good that you said it because we don't have the courage to be civil. We are all so limited in political correctness that we agree to the absurdities that are happening in the European Union. And they said: "We have great hopes with Poland, which will bring into the European Union a system of Christian values and a certain normality and will make sure that the European Union is developing properly." Poland has a beautiful task to fulfil. As before, during the battle of Vienna, she defended against Islam, as in the battle of Warsaw she defended against Bolshevism, so now, unfortunately... It's a beautiful task. I say 'unfortunately', because it is very difficult to protect Europeans from themselves, because they often want to go on such paths, on which Europe may not develop, but vanquish. Therefore, I believe that the policy which gives Poland power as a member of the European Union, the policy pursued by the current government deserves to be recognised as much as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult to respond to all the words that have been said here because we have already been sitting for six hours, but I will point out that a few things have attracted my attention. There's no way to start with more general reflections. The reason for our meeting and our discussion is quite trivial, because it is only about six months of the life of the European Union and a fairly technical report on the various legislative processes. But this discussion was very easy for us to escape in fundamental, fundamental, much more general things, concerning the beginnings and beginnings of the new Polish statehood, the reborn Republic, and our relationship and expectations towards the Union, and even wider, towards the West. I think it shows something important. It is a clear sign that 13 years after entering the European Union, after accession, we still have a lot to talk about, to stabilise, to explain. E.g. We have to explain what we can expect from the European Union and what we cannot, what the European Union is called for and what it is not. I don't want this conversation here... There's no reason, there's no room for this discussion to be reopened here, but I think there's a big difference. Countries that are longer in the European Union, which have a more stable policy towards the European Union, on such occasions certainly are not so easy to discuss with such fundamental questions. I think that this is important for the strength of Polish politics, because without a more nuanced attitude towards what the Union is, what to expect, what it is, what we want from it, how we want to behave, it will be impossible to stabilise this policy in the long term. Without stabilising this policy, it is impossible to expect that its effects will be as they should be, i.e. that they will build a sense of comfort, our own, socially, politically, comfort of being in the Union. I have tried to give you a fairly nuanced picture of the various processes in the Union, nuanced in the sense that showing that Poland is absolutely ready to make compromises, good compromises on any matter in which our rations, our interests, our values are respected. On the other hand, I did admit and admit Poland today is willing to maintain a certain level of political tension where it prefers a compromise on the other side we simply do not see. I would like to highlight this nuance, among others. in order to try to make it difficult for the opposition to present such an image of Polish policy, a European policy which is completely depressive, which is based on catastrophe, on one dimension, on the belief that Poland is moving towards isolation, towards loneliness, that Poland does not have instruments to defend its interests. That's not true, of course. Poland will always have instruments, such as Treaty instruments, to defend its interests. Poland will always maintain the busole of this nuance, which I was talking about, i.e. the ability to compromise, but also the ability to maintain the dispute where necessary. And seeing what I'm gonna be doing to you guys, he urged me to do with a stubborn maniac. It is so important that only then will we be able to extend the agreement on European policy, an important aspect, not only but an important aspect of foreign policy. Extend in such a way that Poland pursues a long-term policy simply stable and predictable. Just as countries that may have had a little more time, or maybe a little less problems behind them, have managed to stabilise their place in Europe. If we do not achieve such roots, such stability, then we will simply be a weaker country, we will be a country that will not be able to obtain everything that can be obtained. 'Cause you can't get everything, you're never gonna get it. It will not be able to exploit its potential in an optimal way. That's why I'm allowing myself this one more general remark. Of course, the political and economic balance of Polish membership of the European Union is clearly positive. Nobody's questioning that. But if we go a little further, we'll see a nuance. This nuance is that these political and economic benefits, benefits from the European Union, which are undeniable, do not spread equally in Poland, on the Polish economy, on Polish politics. Moreover, it is easy to identify industries, economic sectors that feel some pressure, some stress directly related to Poland's membership in the European Union. That's part of the reality, too. If we do not see these shadows, we will unfortunately be sentenced to very simple prescriptions. For very simple recommendations. And that in the European Union is the worst of possibilities. We need to see these differences. Otherwise, we will not be able to conduct an informed policy. When we come to the issue of the budget, very often these economic benefits associated with membership in the European Union are reduced to the balance of payments. This is, of course, far too little, there are many other aspects that may be more durable than the balance of payments, but when we reach the budget and we hear, in particular now, in some capitals of Western countries, that in fact the budget is a one-sided tribute, a kind of goodwill, a donation that should result in a greater sub-ordination of countries having a positive flow of this contribution and should result in some self-limitation of their own rights assigned to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is natural that the reason will wake up... the tendency to dig a little deeper and point out the obvious fact that Poland is not only a recipient of EU money, but is also a payer of a rather serious contribution to the European Union. So we have to put it in proportions. Poland's contribution to the European Union per year is about... is up to EUR 5 billion, i.e. up to PLN 20 billion. It's not nothing at all. This shows that we are co-owners of this budget, so this budget must also meet our development goals. Otherwise, we would be dealing with a situation where we are, in fact, budgeting together, but the political objectives of what this budget is spent on are set by someone else. If that were the case, it would not really be the problem of negotiating the multiannual budget, because we would only have a simple budgetary rule setting out how we calculate the contribution. And that's quite objective and uncontroversial. And then it would be like we do what we want. Well, it's not. The essence of budget negotiations is to establish policies, i.e. to set goals, what this money is meant to serve. And only then do we have a European agreement on what European objectives can be achieved for European money in each Member State. And that's what sets the framework. Let's say sometimes a rather narrow frame. What we call European solidarity. European solidarity is not a shapeless, limitless concept, for example. With regard to the budget, we can spend our money on what we want. No. We can only spend it on those objectives that are agreed at Union level, i.e. they represent EU objectives in the Member State concerned. In this case, Poland. This nuance is needed to understand its role in the EU, European process as well. This case has come back here many times, which is why I have allowed myself this slightly more general attention. About the more specific issues... The thesis was challenged here. One of the most important things to me, too. That conflicts of interest between Poland and other countries of the European Union, and in principle between Poland and the European Union, have a history as long as the history of Polish membership of the European Union. I pointed out in my original speech that the obvious example of such a conflict of interest is climate policy, certain parts of energy policy, a permanent dispute, from the very beginning, about how to shape budgetary policy or the principles of playing on the Community market. I stress this so that you do not build with such ease a hypothesis that our problems and conflicts of interest started in the European Union two years ago, because unfortunately this is not the case. Reality is much more complicated. I understand the usefulness of such a hypothesis, such a reason for later building a depressing image of Polish European politics, only that it is separated from reality. For the first time, the regulation of the posting of labour on the Community market as a legislative subject Not as a political idea, but as a legislative theme, it emerged in 2013, when we were supposed to have an extremely orderly, mild, submissive European policy, which should result in all our rations being listened to and respected. In 2014, the first directive was introduced, which introduced the first element of the regulation of delegated work on the Community market. On this occasion, the Polish government once again abandoned regional solidarity, which today hiccups us, because some regional actors remember it well and put it on a political subject, when today we encourage everyone around us to act together as long as possible in these difficult negotiations. In climate policy, the Polish government from the previous parliamentary majority vetoed twice. Of course, it is very right, with the general support and applause of the opposition at the time, to solve climate policy. Moreover, he vetoed them himself, in a proportion that the state often resembles. 27:1 ratio. And he did the right thing. You may remember that we had the courage to say it was a good move. So please note that sometimes it happens that a Member State in a situation of immanent differences in interests or even conflicts of interests must reach for such measures. I don't have to talk about the budget. The collision between the objectives of innovation, research and development and, let's say, more conservative, which are easier to achieve, has been from the very beginning. In fact, it is only us who are flooding this conflict, because the Polish state today is better prepared to benefit from these, say, progressive elements of the budget, thanks to the efforts of the Minister of Development and the Minister of Science and Higher Education. There have been questions here... the matter of compliance with the European Court of Justice has been repeated many times. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference of opinion on the interpretation of European law is the norm. Actually, I've checked it out in the meantime, I've had quite a bit of time. 2 000 649 proceedings are pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union, but there would not be one without a situation where a Member State interprets European Union law or even judgments differently, because very many cases These are the proceedings for failure to comply with the judgment. None of these cases would have happened if it hadn't been for situations where we're dealing with a different sentence, i.e. when the Member States have a slightly different opinion than the European Commission. The attempt to create a huge drama, unbelievably disproportionate drama, around the issue of a protective measure issued in connection with the proceedings in the wilderness is really frivolous. We cannot treat ourselves and the audience like this and we cannot build, as I say, an extraordinary drama on the basis of one Although in this case there will probably be more. The difference of opinion which ends at the Court, which is a routine situation in the European Union. It's supposed to be Although I'm not sure here, I used statistics like this. This type of legal dispute opened during the reign of the previous coalition was 500; but I'm not sure about it, so please don't use that number so completely for real. Most likely, during our entire membership of these types of cases, which were brought to the Court, there are about 1 000 600. So that I'm really asking on this one point Who, I hope, will end well Don't build any extraordinary drama. No one from the Polish government ever said that we would not want to comply with final decisions on this matter. And no final decision on this matter has ever been ignored. But there is indeed a legal dispute as to how to understand the security clause And that's it. In fact, the situation is quite trivial. You very often, undermining the political cohesion of Central Europe, which I think is reckless, because everyone listens to us, because there are some countries, such as Bulgaria and Hungary, which are sceptical about the European Union's sanctioning regime towards Russia. Let's just be honest: if this sanctioning regime is ever called off, if it ever goes down, it's because of a completely different capital. Not Sofia, not Budapest. Can you carry out such a thought experiment and consider whether you will then behave equally arrogantly towards this one other capital that will eventually break the sanctions regime? So it doesn't make sense. It just doesn't make sense. The countries that have intense economic interests with the Russian Federation in such a sensitive area as energy are really more than Hungary itself. These are business on a much larger scale, much longer history and, moreover, some of the capitals believe that these interests need to be further strengthened and expanded to an unprecedented scale. So if, on such an example, we want to build an unnecessary charge against the countries of our region Who show solidarity with us in many ways, and we want to show solidarity with them. Let us not look for such an example, because such an argument can easily hit anyone else at the EU table, and that is what we would like to avoid. Regional cooperation is not based, contrary to what has happened here, on a blunt opposition to the European Union's migration policy. On the contrary. First of all, the region presents positive solutions in this respect. I have spoken here many and many times about the external themes of migration policy. All these elements are strongly supported and co-financed by the countries of the region, although none of these countries, except Hungary, may feel any direct impact of the crisis that continues in the Middle East and North Africa. And this is an expression of our solidarity. But bringing it to one thread is Okay, okay, okay, It's completely disconnected or out of the question. All you have to do is look at the official documents. I am not talking about the working contacts and the working game that the region is playing in the EU, but I am talking about official documents, most often extremely retail, on areas such as the future of the common market, of course migration policy, the negotiating mandate for Brexit, the future of the European Union, the Community's digital market. In all these areas, the region speaks with one voice and says interesting things. Very often they are not defensive voices, voices of opposition or opposition, but they are also definitely offensive, ambitious voices. We're gonna... we're gonna... Regarding the discussion on the Community digital market And there will soon be a summit in Tallinn. The countries of our region have the most offensive ideas to complete the construction of the Community digital market. We're not defending ourselves against anything, they're other countries defending ourselves against something. It is the other countries that see the problem in the Community market, in some aspects of it. Not us, although perhaps as intense as some candidates do during election campaigns, we do not wave the flag of the EU. The three-seas, which has been repeatedly referred to here in a caricature manner... The Tri-Moor is therefore called the Tri-Moor to cut speculation about possible historical analogys about the project, a vision that was extremely popular in Poland before the war. It seems that this procedure should cut the imbalance, how much is there in the Międzymorrzem of that day, etc. It's pointless. We are in different circumstances and completely different forces affect this region from the outside. Everyone understands it perfectly. I think that after the summit of the Tri-Morza in Warsaw and the declarations of the presidents, in particular President Andrzej Duda, but also after reading the documents adopted in writing, no one should have any doubt that the Tri-Morra is not an alternative form of integration into the European Union. On the contrary, it is a form of participation in the European Union, because most of the projects included in the Tri-marine agenda are projects that fall within the EU's strategies. The three-seas is focused on infrastructure issues. Of course, investment in infrastructure is not an investment like any other. The development of road, energy, IT infrastructure has political implications. In this sense, The Trimar has political potential, but it focuses on mechanisms that have been well known in the European Union for years. It's not an alternative. It is a complement to integration, a contribution to integration. One last thing, the issue of security and defence cooperation. Senator Klich mentioned the Weimar initiatives from a few years ago, which in the Polish-German-French group showed possible scenarios for the development of a common security and defence policy. Except those initiatives did not bring about a qualitative leap in the common security and defence policy. It's only today that we've got the reachable, I think, within our reach, in our sights. A qualitative leap in the field of the common defence policy through the possibility, very clearly, of establishing structured cooperation. Poland in this area was not limited to expressing a reluctant yes. From the very beginning Poland has presented political conditions that are reduced to synergies with NATO, strategic conditions that are reduced to ensuring that structured cooperation responds to threats not only in the south but also in the east. In addition, she made a very clear request. At political level, this will probably be more difficult to implement at legislative level. In order to ensure that the new money that appears in the industrial policy for the defence industry is equally accessible to all countries. It's not just a simple yes. We've said a lot about this. The recent conclusions, before the holidays adopted at European Council level with the involvement of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, have brought all these demands to fruition. These conclusions are very good from a Polish point of view. We would like them to be translated in a fair way into the language of concrete legislation, into the language of notification of structured cooperation itself. I call again for you to pay attention to the nuances of European policy. In view of the complexity of the EU's efforts, there is a great deal of nuance. My original speech was a big shortcut, a big generalization. The information document that we have provided you with introduces more of these nuances. Unfortunately, this will make it difficult for you to build caricatures of Polish European policy, unfortunately it will make it difficult to put very simple, heavy-cut ones too, but it will bring us closer to communicating on the Union, and such an agreement on the Polish Union would be very useful, because without this we will not be able to conduct long-term policy. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u154	Thank you very much, Minister Konrad Szymanski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for presenting the information. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you.]] I state that the Senate took note of information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2017 (the leadership of Malta in the Council of the European Union). Dear Senators, in connection with the request from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, I propose to consider the ninth point, i.e. the Act on the amendment of the Act on Local Workers, after the third point, that is the Act on the Establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: However, can I ask the senators not to change order...]] [[I wouldn't either.]] But no, Minister, after that point... There will now be a point related to the minister's department. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act establishing the Day of Fighting and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. The text of the Act is contained in print No 590 and the report of the Commission In print No 590 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Richard Bonisławski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Our committee received a letter addressed to the Marshal, but the Marshal sent it to the commission stating that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland at its forty-seventh meeting on 15 September adopted a law on the establishment of the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village. We have read the contents of this bill. She's very short. In tribute to the inhabitants of Polish villages for their patriotic attitude during World War II, for helping refugees, people hiding from persecutions and displaced persons, fighting in guerrilla troops, feeding the inhabitants of the cities and soldiers of the underground Polish state, and with respect for the enormous amount of victims suffered by villagers Shot, thrown out of homes, deprived of property, exported to Soviet camps and German concentration camps and forced labors are as follows: Art. 1. July 12 - the day of Michniv's pacification The Day of Struggle and Martyrdom of the Polish Village is established. Art. 2. The Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village is a national holiday. Art. 3. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. It was the proposal that was made to us. Of course, in the course of the discussion, in the presence of the Minister, various doubts were answered. The point was whether a public holiday would be a day off from work or not, but there were also questions, often asked somewhere out of the way, and then even in clowns. I, too, have repeatedly responded to these questions, why Michniów is mentioned here. If I may, I will introduce such a short historical digression here, because as a guide riding on Kielce's land, in the Świętokrzyskie Mountains, I have stood many times in those places where this martyrdom of the Polish village is very visible, and I would like to say that Michniów is a kind of symbol, because the villages in which the pacification of the village was carried out are hundreds in Poland, but here was the headquarters of the Świętokrzyskie Branch of the National Army led by Jan Piwnik Ponurego. Lieutenant Ponury later moved from Michniów to Wykus, and almost all inhabitants of this village worked very actively with the guerrilla. Unfortunately, one of the subordinates, lieutenant Wojnowski, nicknamed Motor, reported that on July 12, 1943, the German penal expedition set out to pacify the village. 102 people were murdered at the time, about 10 were sent to concentration camps, and young women were sent to concentration camps. For work in Germany. Well, in the revenge of the "Ponary" who found out about it, already in the evening he assassinated a train bringing passengers from Warsaw to Cracow. Dozens of Germans were shot dead. The next day, July 13, the Germans came to Michniów again and this time they murdered all residents, including infants, because the youngest resident had 9 days. Ladies and gentlemen, it has always been a special place for me, because in Michniów there were also Łódźmen. They just happened to be there. It was simply in Łódź, which was in the Third Reich, that residents were expelled from their homes. They were given 20 minutes to leave their homes, and many of them found refuge in the hospitable sanctimonious land. That's why there are many unknown names among these victims that have never been written anywhere before. Of course, the whole village was burned down, just like the famous Czech Lidice, which is a kind of symbol known in Europe, although only 173 people were murdered there by the Germans. I say nothing but, of course, treat it... not as a joke, just... Against the background of what's been going on here... This is where 204 people were murdered in Michniów alone. And that was just the beginning. I'd like to add more. I'll be right back on the subject of Michniv. That the pacifications of the Polish villages did not, of course, begin with Michniów. Already in 1939 on the heroic trail, very chivalrous, as it was written, the Wehrmacht was pacified in the Łódź Voivodeship 93 villages. One thousand and 200 people were murdered at the time. In September 476 villages were pacified in the rest of the conquered country. That was the beginning. Another year brought the so-called. Hubalian pacifications on Opoczyn and Konec soil. In retaliation for the operation of the first underground branch during World War II, the Germans murdered 265 people in Skłobów. It was one of the biggest executions. But there were also executions in the Hutches, in the knobs, in the Old Shadows. We've been there quite often. We mentioned that 712 people from 31 villages were murdered and dozens were sent to concentration camps. In 1942, Zamość also suffered extermination resettlement and pacification of villages. There, ladies and gentlemen, 115 towns were destroyed, over 4,000 600 people were murdered, 84 villages burned down. I'm talking about this not just to show off historical knowledge here. I answer the questions that were asked in the clowns, whether it's worth going back to those topics today. I think it's worth it. As far as Michniów is concerned, it is located near Suchedniów, on the route from Bodzentyna to Suchedniów. It's easy to find this place because it's characteristic, it's a symbol. Ladies and gentlemen, in Michniów there was a monument to the collective grave. In 1993 Pieta Michniowska appeared and 4 years later became a memorial home. Then there was the monument of the Pożoga Volyn, because we are trying to preserve the memory of those who died in the pacifications in areas no longer belonging to Poland. In 2008, a project for the expansion of museum buildings appeared. There is also an interesting exhibition called. Crime without forgiveness. I think that the bill, to which we have tabled one small amendment, will allow us to honor those who died in Polish villages. Ladies and gentlemen, we have added an amendment to this article. 1, which sounded like this: July 12th - the day of the Michniov pacification It's called Fighting Day... After the words "Michniov pacification day," we add the words "Michniov pacification day" in 1943. This is the only amendment. It was adopted unanimously, as was the entire law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The draft law was introduced by Members. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Jarosław Sellin, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Jan Rulewski to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I apologize for being hyperactive, but history has convinced me to speak because I have accompanied various events that only partially justify this law. Because if we accept what Senator Bonisławski has presented to us, these most tragic and dramatic events for the Polish countryside, they do not exhaust others, perhaps less dramatic, less tragic, but those which took place together with the pacification or liquidation of the Polish village due to the introduction of the communist system, including the far-reaching collectiveization which from the village has actually made an organizational unit for agricultural production, while from peasants the system has made employed workers. This case was also served by peasants' speeches, among others. in Ustrzyki, in Rzeszów and in Bydgoszcz. But we should also mention how rightly here Senator Bonisławski says that the village... Because the title is "Polish Village" and this title can impress you, why the village, why not peasants. Rightly, Mr. Senator is right that the village is more than just peasants, of course teachers, it's a priest, it's also geography, land, landscape. The heir was, yes... I'm afraid I don't remember that. So I am in favour of this version and will vote in favour. I would like to persuade the High House to establish a community. This resolution is a resolution that has, I would say, a character of homage, giving a certain testimony to history. It's even said there's a museum... I think... And that's the proposal. for all of us... Although, before that, maybe one more thread. When I talk about the fact that they were persecuted and it was in a different way than during the war, the invaders, also in the East, when the peasants were more... in another way, certainly tragic, deprived of the land and transported to Kazakhstan, and then the peasants died starving or otherwise. I mean, it's important to remember that in the new story We also dealt with murders in Poland. The murder on Bartoszcze, a peasant activist of Solidarity, is not fully explained. Today we mentioned here and paid tribute to Father Jerzy Popieluszka. What's that got to do with the village? Well, Father George Popieluszko, Father Suchowolec and Father Ziche are the sons of the village. They took their resistance against communism out of this land, out of this rural culture. They found their outlet in the ecclesiastical side, in the Christian side, which, after all, the earthly property and the village were particularly pleasing and loved. So when we talk about these sufferings of priest Jerzy Popieluszko, we must also see the suffering of the son of the land, the son of the Polish village. But this idea, this idea of a community here, that it can't just come down to a certain passage, to a certain resolution... I believe that the Polish land, so emphasized in electoral campaigns as a primary and absolute value Which I agree with, although unfortunately it is also subject to commercial and commercial laws, it requires respect. My proposal is that in Poland Here I address this to the Minister and the Minister of State, a laboratory of land has been established. The lab, something like Copernicus Center, but not the same as Copernicus Center. The idea is to make it mostly a part of the museum. That's what I'd say. A historical one that would show how far the peasants, and others who supported them, defended this land. That's the story you were talking about here, Senator. and earlier: the participation of Kościuszko, the uprising, and later: the fight against collectiveisation It should have its commemoration. In this the story of Dzymała's car, which may not have been so tragic, but showed the ethos of the Polish peasant who speaks lively and weapons, but also loves this land, until today. And it's worth using the power of that love to show it to all those whose tongue is sometimes itching to sell the land, to give the land to someone. I believe that really the Polish land is the land and the people or the people and the earth. And culture. And this land must be defended. In fact, you can't even bring her from China or send her to China. She'll be here and she should be ours. It's the lab that shouldn't be just this part. I'll tell you what. It's historical. It should contain this element of knowledge of what the earth has given, what it will give and what it will give in terms of... As what he has already shown To speak figuratively The centre of Kopernik. The point is that there is a certain identity between the struggle to preserve the land, the preservation of villages and peasants, this peasant culture, and at the same time those benefits and purposes that made sense of the fight. So this land, this village, that these peasants... that this culture isn't just about business, it's about food and defense. Defend Polishness, not just peasant caste. It's a financial effort, but I don't think it's just us who realized the value of having land... We don't need to be persuaded. However, it may be that different currents, perhaps even European ones, will aim to make land trading what car trade or mobile traffic is. And it's worth it to remind the earth lab of where it started, why this struggle required such a sacrifice of blood and why there were so many invaders who wanted to take the land. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u158	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... [[Voice from the courtroom: Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes? Oh, Senator Rusiecki. You're welcome. Sorry, I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Senate! On the one hand, encouraged by Senator Rulewski, and on the other hand, as the son of the sanctimonious land and the man who is often in Michniów, I agree with a certain idea presented by Senator Rulewski that we need to examine the sources. Research on the sources of Polish statehood, the Polish nation, which actually originates from the village. We need such an in-depth study, but at the same time we need to say that we need respect. Therefore, the law that has come under our deliberations is, as I think, right and necessary, that in a special way all villagers, all villagers, who helped defend Polish independence during World War II, honor, pay tribute to them. Because it is worth knowing, Ladies and gentlemen, that the destruction of Michniów, the destruction of the Polish village had its origins in the struggle for independence. Jan Piwnik, mentioned here by Senator Bonisławski, is the son of the parents of Janowice, from the Świętokrzyskie village, who, before the war, had a hard time getting an education of a police officer first and later an officer of the Polish Army. He is a man who was endowed with extraordinary wisdom and courage. He is a man who, as an officer of the Polish Army, was able to stand up against politicians who addressed harsh words to Stanisław Mikołajczyk in the UK when he encouraged him to take care of the position of his political party. He clearly said that he was an officer of the Polish Army and as an officer defending independence of the whole Republic. He served an independent country. And the activities of the group led by Jan Piwnik.Ponury., became for the German army, which originated from the German people, the same one that he spent e.g. Goethe's cause of pacification, burning 204 people from 12 to 13 July 1943. The youngest of those burned is Stefanek Dąbrowa. He had nine days. A lot of people were locked up in barns and burned down these barns. I think the village Michniowska is such a symbol of all Polish villages, but also I think it is wider. The villages that have been pacified by the German army as part of the war are over 800. And we need a special honor for the villagers. I would like to mention that during the discussion in the committee, Marshal Podziej mentioned many environments, clergymen, also landowners. We also have such an example from Świętokrzyskie land, where the landowner Vincenta Reklewski helped villagers, Home Army soldiers, soldiers of the National Armed Forces and the local community to survive the war. Therefore, all the inhabitants of the Polish village, who carried great burdens, on the one hand, fighting for independence After all, the soldiers of Jan Piwnik, Ponure, were soldiers from Polish Świętokrzyskie villages who fought for independence with the German invader... That is why I support the establishment of such a holiday, which is a tribute to the Polish village, which suffered great hardships and losses during the Second World War. I would also like to draw attention to the great effort of the Polish state today, in particular the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. And I thank Minister Jarosław Sellin, who is now making efforts to build such an object in Michniów as part of his actions to commemorate and build a mausoleum on a European scale. And I hope that soon there will be an object which will worship on the one hand, and on the other hand will delight us with its thought, its reflection, its kind of beauty, will encourage us to come to Michniów, to lean over Pieta Michniowska and to pay homage to the inhabitants of the Polish village. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u160	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u161	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and Senator Rusiecki for these words, including the entire committee. I would just like to remind you that this is part of the protocol that this project is a project of the PSL Members' Club and, of course, it was carried out with full approval. Thank you again and thank you, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u162	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Local Workers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 587 and the report of the committee In print No 587 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I have the honour to present a report on yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, at which the Act on the amendment of the Local Workers Act was discussed. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 15 September 2017. 263 Members voted in favour, against 164 and 8 abstentions. This law was proceded at the request of the Kukiz Club of Posel,15, so it was a law taken at the initiative of Members, a parliamentary law. What is this bill about? This Act amends the Local Staff Act, which was adopted on 21 November 2008. It concerns the change, and in fact the removal, of the positions of advisers and assistants in local government units. Speaking of these units, I mean municipalities, districts and marshal's offices, including the cities where the president manages. So it applies to all local authorities, all 3 degrees in which people were employed in the positions of advisors and assistants. Under the Act, which was adopted in 2008, the number of advisers and assistants employed could not exceed 3 in municipalities with up to 20,000 inhabitants, 5 to 100,000 inhabitants, and above this number could be employed 7 people. This law and the employment of these people have in many cases been controversial, but this is kind of a separate topic for discussion. The law we are talking about, which was dealt with yesterday at a committee meeting, concerns the liquidation of these positions. This is practically the main subject of this law: the liquidation of the posts of advisor and assistant in all local units. As I mentioned, the bill aroused quite a controversy, because it mainly concerned the way in which the employment contract was terminated with these advisers and assistants. The Act provides that they will be terminated, the termination of employment contracts with assistants and advisers will take place up to 15 days after the entry into force of the Act. The bill is expected to enter into force 30 days after the President's signature, so this is a period of one and a half months. As far as the committee meeting is concerned, as I said, there were different votes, different proposals, but the summary of the meeting was made through a vote under which three proposals were submitted. The first motion was to reject the bill, and in this case the result was 5:4 against rejection, so the bill by the commission was not rejected. The next proposal is a proposal to adopt a law without amendments, and here the result was 4:4, so the committee of local government did not take a position. And the amendment, tabled by Senator Flork, Senator Rotnicka, Senator Sługocki and Senator Wcisła, was to leave the termination of the employment contract until the end of the term of office. Because in the previous act it was that at the end of the term of office there is an automatic termination by contract law with those who were employed as advisers and assistants. This was the outcome of the committee's meeting and this is the result I am presenting to the Senate for consideration and to be decided in plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u164	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You can see the blade in your neighbor's eye, and the beams in your own eye can't. And I could probably end it by saying it. But if it doesn't make sense to anyone, I'll try to explain a little bit. This time you are introducing a new division. These divisions are being introduced every second, in various laws, into society... This time a new division: good and bad advisors and assistants. The good ones are those employed in ministries, in central administrative bodies, and the bad ones are those employed in municipalities, in powiats, in marshal offices. The Senator rapporteur said that it was a parliamentary project tabled by Kukiz15. The project was intended to cover all assistants and advisers employed in both state and local authorities, i.e. those employed in political offices and local authorities, in accordance with the Local Government Act. Because to say that these are political offices in local governments, that's a quasi-defining... These are employees who are employed in local governments. It was supposed to be that the bill would apply to all assistants and advisors, and it worked out as always. There's a support deal, Kukiz-15 wanted to be successful, so he's got... And on the other hand, it's only halfway through. Because we're in favour, too, but, as I said, for the liquidation of offices also in ministries and central administration bodies. That's a bill we'd definitely support. Let there be equality, let there be no division between the bad and the good. The situation in local governments is quite different than in political offices. You're aware that local governments are politics. In a way, yes, and that's true, but not at the central level. As I remember, for two thousand four hundred and eighty-six municipalities, less than two thousand 500 municipalities, let's add to that the powiats and local governments of the Voivodeship, employed in local governments, are about 900 assistants and advisors. Look... It's not mandatory. It's voluntary. If anyone wants to get involved with someone who's gonna leave with him when his term is over... It's not a bad thing. There's gotta be another way to do it. It is possible to hire such an employee on a permanent basis, because advisors are also employed, but on a different basis. Such changes will probably take place shortly after the introduction of this law. There's no question about that. And that's why there's supposed to be savings, but only for local governments, which is 40 million, according to calculations. Not everyone answered, so probably about 50 million zlotys on a scale... I'm 100% sure. I can say that there will be no such savings. Well, that's another thing. Ladies and gentlemen, knowing exactly the situation in local governments, because I was a local governmentman, and in administration, I can say that there is certainly a greater politicisation in government administration. Once you've done it together, put it together... The state at the committee meeting gave selective examples, as in local governments... Of course there are cases where assistants or advisors behave badly, they have... okay, but in government agencies at the level of ministries, it's the same thing. Bartłomiej Misiewicz, Advisor to Minister Macierewicz A typical example, ladies and gentlemen. If we want to change that, let's go liquefy it, without the hypocrisy, without the pure populism that we're dealing with, and without the drug deal. Because here's the thing that's clear about something that's been taken care of. I think you understand local governments, but you pretend you don't understand them. You want to centralize everything so you can have full control of everything. That's where you're headed. You are creating new divisions, this time in local governments, quite unnecessarily. Hence the minority's motion to reject the bill. Well, knowing the arithmetic and knowing that the state of this bill will not reject... There is also a request from 4 senators to terminate this agreement. As my previous speaker said, 30 days after the President's signature, he enters... And then, after 14 days, these contracts are terminated. So suddenly, after 14 days, 900 people in Poland remain unemployed. I think it's unfair... Unless they had a temporary agreement for a while. If that's the end of the deal, it's okay. But if they had been provided with employment by the end of their term of office, then this work cannot be interrupted. There's a local government election next year. And why would you want to do that? Therefore, the amendment we tabled It has not obtained a majority, has not been rejected or accepted, says that the contracts will be terminated with the termination of the local authorities, i.e. at the end of the term of office, unless the contract has been concluded for a shorter period. Then before the end of his term of office She's gonna go out. That's what our proposal is about. From what I've had to discuss... Senator Rulewski will modify it a little bit, including everyone, regardless of the time of the agreement. This is some way out of this situation so we don't have to vote against this bill. The fact is, you've created a division between these bad and good advisors and assistants. If you want to slow down the bad guys, at least give them the chance to work until the end of this term. Then we'll think about how we're going to vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u166	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome. Which one of you gentlemen? [[Senator Flork.]] You're welcome, Senator. Then Senator Czarnobaj and then Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u167	Mr. Senator, I'm asking because you were a voivode. Well, the Greater Poland Voivode, your successor, has issued, you might say, an order... [[Punishment.]] Yes. ...to get the president of my town to hire a family policy advisor. Today, his group has either ordered this man or hired on completely different terms than the voivode offered or fired. Were such situations shown at the committee meeting? And is this inconsistency from the point of view of your experience... How do you feel about that? [[When it comes to employment...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u168	Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I'll be right with you. Senator Blackbay and Senator Warzocha. And then I'll ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal, I wanted to refer this to Senator Spider, but... [[Yes? Well, I can...]] No, no, maybe changing the address will do the trick. Mr. Senator, I'm referring to your experience. First, I'd like to ask you if these 900 people who have been fired... let's say there are two people employed at the office, e.g. 1 assistant and 1 proxy. According to your legal knowledge, can the president of the city set up, say, the legal department and hire these two people? That's the first question. And the other. Did you discuss at the committee meeting how many political advisors are in Poland in various kinds of government institutions and ministries?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u170	Thank you very much. Does Senator Warzocha have a question for Senator Flork? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u171	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, you're probably familiar with the classic Aristotle definition of politics as well as most of us. It brings about the fact that politics is the art of governing a country whose aim is to achieve a common good. Aristotle doesn't discuss it. At the same time, you used such a rhetorical figure that there is, of course, a politician in local governments, but not like the one at ministerial level. What do you think is the difference between the policies of local governments, the so-called self-governments, and the policies of the central level?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u172	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u173	Good. First question, Senator Augustine, about a social policy advisor. If the voivode really wanted such advisers to be employed in individual cities, it was up to the president how he would hire such an advisor. The president could've used... he could've hired an advisor in the form of an assistant or an advisor. He could have done it this way or possibly hired him in another way, in the social policy department, etc. So there were options here. But it is known that if he hired someone in this form and if it turns out that these assistants now, advisors will disappear, then there will be no counsellor, he will not be employed. So the president's gonna have to make a difference in order to get this counselor In accordance with the requirement, if there was such a requirement, that the advisor should remain. [[Mrs. Marshal, I just wanted to point out that the voivode sees a substantive reason for having a family attorney in my town. And now it turns out that, in light of these new regulations, as the president informed me, he will not be able to hire him in this capacity.]] A proxy may be employed as an advisor, may be a proxy. So that it's possible here. As I say, it was a matter of choice. The president came to the conclusion that he would employ, given the untapped limit... The city of Piła has less than 100,000 inhabitants, so there are probably 5 such people, with a maximum of 7 of them. If the president didn't use that limit, that's how he could have done it. Now, if this bill comes into force, he's gonna have a problem because he's gonna have to... Well, he's gonna do what's related to the second question you asked Senator Blackbay. How many people are employed in Poland when it comes to central administration, i.e. ministries, administrations? I think the Minister is and will be present, so... because I don't recall us discussing this at the committee meeting. That's not the question. Then please redirect this question to the Minister. Well, I'm sure it's much more than that. About... Oh, in terms of what's going on with these people, I'm pretty sure every mayor, mayor, president, marshal, old man can handle it. It's just that these people are going to have changed contracts and they're going to keep working, but they're going to work on different terms. The only thing that matters is that if the mayor, the mayor, the president, the old man, the marshal leaves his post, those people will stay. And in some cases, it would be good... [[Exactly. Exactly.]] If someone thinks they have an assistant to cooperate with him, and not then a successor... the successor will fire him after a while anyway. And that's how it's gonna look. Question three, Senator Warzocha. It was about the common good, what this policy looks like at central level, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is known that parliamentary elections are typically political, so it is known that after the elections there are changes in ministries, central bodies, etc. And that's why I'm saying that in this case, it's mostly political when it comes to advisors. Local authorities, on the other hand, have different ways of doing this. There are people who, uh, mayors, mayors, presidents, old-timers, politically declaring... And they're so... But, as we know, 'cause that's all the data about elections and how many mobs, mayors and so on. It's the most wojów that are from PSL, those who have been chosen in Poland. So in general, there is not the same policy in local governments as here, because local elections are quite different choices. We often vote for the committees of a particular uncle or candidate for a governor, mayor, president, not political parties. There is therefore a difference between politicians and people in political offices. That's why in ministries, the central authorities are political offices. and those we are talking about here, i.e. local staff, advisers and, above all, assistants. Well, in general, as I know, local governments employ assistants, and that's for not much money. This is money in order, as I know it, 2.5 thousand zlotys. Because in local governments, this money isn't big. If we take the average, that's 40 million out of 900 employees... What's the average around here, you'll probably know better. But if we asked not only for data about the number of people employed in central authorities, but also about their earnings, it would probably turn out that these salaries in central authorities are I've got a feeling about this. Somewhere at a level of 8, 9 or 10,000, so they're not like in local governments. Therefore, I repeat: if anything, one must treat both of them fairly. Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u174	Please, Mr. Senator. [[More?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u175	I am again addressing the rapporteur for the minority proposal. With all due respect, Mr. Senator, right now, in this answer to my question, you have given the best argument confirming the rightness of these efforts. Well, since this policy at central level is Well, if I've got your point correctly, sir. "Stricte" the kind of policy that we mean by this, that is, this is a highly politicized action, and it is appropriate to maintain political offices and advisers, assistants, who perform these political functions. On the other hand, the local government If I've also understood your point of view, You are more associated with solving cases that are very close to people, with hosts, that is, there it is enough to hire good specialists in official positions, of course within the local government, not advisors and assistants, who, as it is and as the practice shows, are acting strictly politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u176	Well, it can be added that, in the central administration, it is also worth hiring good professionals in ministries, not people who were, for example, arguments. They helped in the election, supported, and as a reward, as you said, became these assistants, etc. Well, if you think it's bad, bad, then it has to be eliminated, so that it doesn't happen that certain requirements are to be... As far as assistants and advisors are concerned, these are requirements. That's not true, what you said, suggesting that there are no requirements, because to become an advisor, you have to have a higher education, so that certain requirements are there. As for assistants it is the same, clear requirements are made. Of course, it is possible to discuss where there is a greater politicisation, certainly in the central administration, but the fact is that this applies both to advisers and assistants in local governments as well as to advisers and assistants in individual central units. If we believe that this should not be employed, then we should, as I said, stop it in local governments and central administration. And that would be fair. Now we can be selective about whether the administration is better... there are a lot of arguments. If we were to discuss, of course, each of us could argue that these assistants should be in local governments and that they should be in central administration or that they should not be there or there, or that they should be there, and they would not be here. So we can discuss this, but what you're doing right now in this bill is very unfair, because you share, as I said, assistants and advisors on better and worse. On the worse in local governments and better in administration. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u177	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski, please. [[I'm quitting because they've been exhausted...]] Okay, thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u178	I have a question for the senator referring to a minority motion, Senator Flork. Mr. Senator, you're raising the question of this quick release of these people. Yes? Within 30 days of the entry into force of the Act... [[Within 14 days.]] In 14 days, so many people will lose their jobs. Of course it's true, but, Mr. Senator, you have to say I don't know if you know that. That to this day these people have been employed without competitions, and according to these regulations... [[Impossible.]] [[No, they had to be.]] Of course, this work ends with the term of office of the local government unit. That is true, Mr. Senator, but these regulations are something else. Well, the mayor, the president, the governor or the marshal can fire him at any time. [[14 days.]] And that's why 14 days. It's not like these people have guaranteed a job to the end. They have a guaranteed job until whoever called them doesn't change their minds. And this notice period is 14 days, so you can't put it in such a way that if we introduce these 14 days into this bill today, we're doing some harm to someone. They may lose their job today, too, with a 14-day notice period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u179	Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u180	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question. Now that the senator's at the podium, that's exactly what I'm gonna ask your senator. In principle, what was the justification of the government party for the liquidation of political offices? I ask this question because the idea of self-government I'm saying this as an old self-government officer. The new self-government created in free Poland was... I remember the slogan that the local government is in charge of itself, and it is under the supervision of councillors who are elected by the locals. The role of offices such as the Sejm and the Senate is probably to supervise the state administration, and therefore to deal with the political offices of local governments today I consider it at least inappropriate to enter into their role. And I will also comment on this justification that I heard in my colleague's speech. Senator, when it comes to dismissals, it will only change the form of employment. If the local government needs this kind of help, it will change only the form of employment and after the release... I'm looking for a financial justification here. Now the work of the government, the governor, the mayor, etc. ends, as well as the period of employment in these political offices. If there is employment, you will still have to pay checks, etc., etc. Therefore, I do not see any financial justification here either. So I repeat the question: what is basically the justification, the justification given by the government party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u181	Thank you very much. And then there's Senator Snotlout. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have a question for Senator Andrzej Spajek or the Minister because Senator Florek has already referred to it and has no answer. The question is the continuation of what Senator Blackobay asked. We know that the initial, first draft law was about That's how I understood it at the committee meeting. Eliminate of our lives as senators and advisors in general... [[Senators?]] [[Senators?]] I'm sorry. [[Assistants.]] ...assistants and assistants at all. Later it was limited only to local governments and the government calculated how many advisors and assistants work in local structures. I understand that when this first project was in operation, it was also analysed how many of these advisors and assistants were working in the government sphere... [[Voice from the room: Microphone is not working...]] Oh, it's on. Miracles. ...to analyze how many were working in the government sphere including the voivodships. If such tests have been done, I hope they have been done. I would ask for information on how many assistants and how many advisers work in the government sphere, including voivodships, and how much money is spent on their salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u183	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Flork for an answer, and then Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u184	I'm the one who's gonna answer two questions that were addressed to me. Senator Frost... Mr. Senator, if you're asking me questions about hiring without competitions, I'm smiling a little, because we've often discussed employment without competitions in this room. Not much, although there are requirements here, e.g. higher education in the case of an advisor. And how many times in the laws I've been talking about was that the requirements... there were no requirements for you. And those were the laws that passed. We say here, ma'am, that this is 900 people per 2,000 500 communes in Poland. Then see, this is not even one person in one municipality employed in this form. So what are we talking about here? Just before the end of the term of office, to make such a resolution... Mr. Senator Frost, those 14 days you've said about hiring, that today every mayor, mayor, governor, president, marshal can terminate the contract, because that's... Even if anyone has a contract until the end of their term, they can say it within 14 days, but he's the one who's gonna say it, if he thinks the senator... I'm sorry... [[Fun in the room]] ...my friend's already confused me a little bit... If the assistant or advisor does not meet the requirements, the expectations that they were, then the uncle will deliver the contract to him within 14 days, but he will do it, and it will not be done administratively by law, just as you want to do, it will not be so that everyone, whether good or bad, needs to be replaced 14 days after the entry into force of the law. I think that's enough. Now, Senator Shark's question. The senator was talking about these political offices in local governments, why she stays... There are no political offices in local governments. [[I know, I know, I know, I was talking about employees in general.]] It's a quasi-name. There's a bill, please don't confuse it. ..about local staff. [[It's about local workers.]] They're self-employed employees. The senator asked... [[For reasons.]] ...to justify why this law enters into force. I, to be honest, recall only one thing, but the senator may then complete my answer. The main reasons were that savings could be saved at national level 40 million if 900 people were fired. Mr. Minister or Director explained that such research was done, that some local governments responded, some municipalities... And it turned out that the savings would be 40 million. Assuming that 80% the entities replied, it can be said that at national level this would be savings of about PLN 50 million. I don't recall any other justification, it was mostly in the justification. I don't agree, because I don't think it's gonna be 50 million zlotys. Maybe there'll be some small money out of it, but knowing the turnover and knowledge of every mayor, mayor, president, and assuming it's one job in any municipality... Like I told you, there's really not gonna be any... Well, there won't be any savings, and people who work for the benefit of communities, local communities, all of a sudden, in two weeks, they're gonna have to look for a job. If anyone knows that, for example. Next year, after the end of his term, he won't be able to continue... He's not gonna be able to go on anyway, because it's not known if the governor, the mayor or the president will be elected. Therefore, the agreement will be terminated anyway. My personal opinion is this. It's not a club sentence, it's my personal opinion. I wouldn't mind, you can reduce... Make it one or two assistants. If there is a person who is, so to speak, adjutant, in front of the mayor or the president, it would be even better if she left with him and not stayed at the office and worked further. That's what I can tell you from experience. You could argue about some kind of reduction... Take into account that there are 900 people employed in 2,000 500 municipalities. It's not a duty... Two thousand and four hundred and eighty-six municipalities... It wasn't an obligation. If someone wanted to hire, they hired them, and if they didn't, they didn't. I'm just talking about the savings... I don't know. Maybe the senator can fill it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u185	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u186	Thank you very much. As far as this data is concerned, I am unable to supplement my predecessor, Senator Flork, with any new messages. The only data that were concerned this number of 900 people and this amount of about 40 million. Ladies and gentlemen, if... maybe this is a short reflection on my part. For more than 21 years, I have been a doorman and an old man, and in all these years I haven't hired a single assistant or counselor. I think I was doing pretty well, because if I wasn't, I guess I wouldn't be here. I know that for example. As soon as I said so, my successor stopped by the office... The next day after he was sworn in, he accepted three assistants because he could hire so many of those advisors or assistants who were really helping him with the election. That's right, it's... Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that... is 900 people a large number? The municipalities are probably 2,000 400 and over 360 counties. Well, that's about 2,000 800. Well, it doesn't even fall, let's say, 0.25 a job... Ladies and gentlemen, if I were the governor and the governor today, I would be acting on the motto that says... There's a saying here: there'll be curved humps on the curved holes. If such a bill comes into force, then the mayors or the mayors who are willing to hire... Let them hire, only that later there will be a problem with the termination of such a contract, for the successor it will be a problem. [[There won't be a successor because...]] Please? [[This agreement will be terminated with the passing of the governor or mayor.]] But if he transforms this contract and hires it, then... Well, it will be. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no more justification at the committee meeting. I have so much to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u187	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u188	I have a question... Maybe it'll be the same question. I wonder how both gentlemen will respond. I respect the experience of Senator Spider and respect the experience of my clubmate Senator Flork. It's best to talk about examples. I agree that you can serve... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, fellas... [[I'm sorry.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. You're welcome.]] Thank you very much. It's best to talk about examples. I think you could give some examples here, I don't know, some extraordinary number of assistants, abuse of it or something. Perhaps such examples would be found, but I will give such an example from my city, where the advisor for many years is an outstanding professor, former rector of one of Wrocław's universities, a man of great knowledge and immense experience, also foreign, in leading... And he's been advising our president for years, and I'm not even sure he's getting paid for it, but he's the city president's advisor. And I think it's very useful. I can't imagine a person like you choosing in a contest at all. Because really, ladies and gentlemen, advisors don't go in competitions, counsellors, they're just... The advisor should be some outstanding specialist in some field, better than the president, not some young type man, I don't know... We've had cases like this in the government, too, where less experienced people were ministers' advisors. The professor... I would like to ask if he will also be deprived of this position. 'Cause I can't imagine him aspiring to hire him as a city clerk. And I would also like to draw attention to this: let's assume that someone is not getting paid to advise the president, but sometimes he should accompany the president or the governor, for example. On some foreign trip. What about it? Like covering such costs, etc., will that be possible? I would also like to ask if such persons, i.e. prominent specialists, will also lose the work of advisors. 'Cause I don't think they're gonna want to get fictitiously hired later in office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u189	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Senator Flork. [[Next question...]] Excuse me? [[Ask me a question. Senator, listen.]] Mr. Senator, who actually introduced the institution of advisors in local governments into the Polish legal system? Was this introduced by the Law of 21 November 2008, adopted by the coalition of PSL [[Voices from the O.R.: They weren't.]] Maybe there was this advisory institution before. But that's what we're gonna find out from the senator's answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u191	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to ask Senator Spider. Twice the amount of PLN 40 million appeared. I look at the Parliamentary Printing No. 1324 and here is the justification for the original draft resolution, which states that the proposed law will not have negative effects on the budget and will have positive financial consequences for the budget of local government units, because it will allow savings estimated at a minimum of PLN 50 million. That's 50 million zlotys or more. Was there another amount at the committee meeting, then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u193	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Spider, and then Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u194	Maybe I'll start at the end. As for this number of PLN 40 million, repeated by Senator Flork and by me, it was the information presented at the committee meeting by your director. It was 40 million as if in relation to those, let's say, 900 who are employed. But there was also information that in this statistics, not all local governments participated in this calculation, provided data. So it's possible that it's kind of assumed that it could be about 50 million zlotys. And that's the sum that was given. The second thing I will tell Mr Czerwiński about here: surely the original sin of this problem is in the above mentioned Act of 2008. Because it also gave rise to controversy and I think it was unnecessarily accepted at the time. But she's already a fact. And I think it's a first-born sin. And as far as the answer to Senator Zdrojewska's question is concerned, my opinion is that if you consider a certain classic definition of politics, it is an action. Let's say that if there is a municipality, then in the municipality, if the county, then in the county, if the state, then in the state Reasonable, sensible, for the benefit of this community or country on the scale of the state, the county on the scale of the county and the commune on the scale of the commune... I've always rebelled, for example. The uncles said, "We don't practice politics." Then I answered them, "Dear Sire, Mr. Starosto or Mr. Starosto When there were elections, society did not choose the first baker in the commune or the first shoemaker in the commune or the first doctor in the commune, but chose the first politician to control this activity in the office, through the office, through other institutions for the benefit of the inhabitants. Right? And this is That's what I think. Politics, of course, in the commune, of the county, but this is politics. People choose the first policy in the commune, in the county, not like I said. Some pie maker, a shoemaker, to sew shoes or, say, bake bread or whatever, just to make it happen. As for the question you had... Well, this is self-government. Like I said, presumably, if there wasn't a law on assistants or advisors, then... If there is a specific person, there is a particular problem e.g. in the city, in Wrocław, which certainly wasn't in the commune which I was the mayor of, in Zawoa, in the district of Suskie... If you need a specific person... And I'm sure that's the kind of person you need. What's the obstacle for the president or the mayor to accept it, if the council lets him, he'll give him the money, and he'll justify it? I believe that you have nothing to do with this as a state or government. He's in front of the public and he can do it. He probably doesn't even need this assistant or counseling bill because he's gonna hire that person on the basis of other laws, and he can have...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u195	Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal!]] Yes? Please, Mr. Senator. Would you like to ask? [[I'd like to ask you one question.]] Whoa, whoa, whoa. [[But I still have the same question for Senator Flork...]] Yes. In the next round, Mr. Senator. Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u196	Mrs. Senator, of course, there are big cities, there are big districts in Poland, there are small towns, small municipalities, municipalities that have 4,000 inhabitants, there are cities that have 0.5 million inhabitants, there are more than 1 million inhabitants. And this is a completely different situation. What the senator said... Well, you're right. If the president of some big city wants to take advantage of the knowledge of some advisor, a prominent professor I don't know. It's for the case... Like a network of hospitals, oh! It's a subject that was also... If he wanted to take advantage of this knowledge and he couldn't hire this person on the job, and yet it's a bit of a nuisance work and these duties are a little... Therefore, if he hires such a person, in accordance with this law, he could do so, he would be able to take her on the trip that the senator was talking about, because that's the employee at the time, so all the cases, delegations, etc. You'll be able to settle it. But if she's not an employee, she's some kind of social advisor, then he won't be able to do it, so you just have to consider it. I think there are always some selective negative and positive examples. For example, on these billboards that we are now watching on our streets, there are also such negative examples selectively shown. We can always show it that way. But it's a rule. In general, if this assistant was with this president, for example. Wroclaw, who hired him to help him with some things, and the assistant is just to remember the calendar, to make time for the next meeting, to take pictures, etc... Let him go with the president, it wouldn't be a problem. Yeah, okay. We want to put an end to this, but let's liquidate it at the level of political offices in the ministries. As regards this law and whether it was introduced by the 2008 Act, because the Local Workers Act is from 2008, I will not answer this question very much, because I do not remember. I'd have to check it out. It is possible that this was introduced in 2008. I don't know what the situation was like before, but let's note one thing: these aren't political offices. Remember, they were supposed to be the assistants and advisors we're talking about right now. If somebody saw that you were hiring in the wrong form... It's a whole other thing. Let's think, discuss, analyze, see what it looks like in Poland, and think about what needs to be changed eventually. That's all I can tell you, senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u197	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal, I'll address Senator Andrzej. Mr. Senator, I took note of that last sentence you said. As an experienced self-government officer, you know that if the mayor or mayor wants Jan Kowalski, Sorry, all Kowalskis. The employee who is dismissed from his post, hire in a different position, he will do it, because that's what self-government is all about. Tell me honestly, as a self-government officer with 20 years of experience, why are you doing this? Could I hear an honest Bolshevik answer? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u199	Mr. Dear, if I were a Bolshevik, my father would disown me. I was so forbidden at home... [[I do.]] I'm from Babia Mountain. There were five brothers, five sons, and Dad said, "My sons, let one enter the party, and his father shall disown him." So I won't answer you after Bolshevik. This is a parliamentary project, and I am asking at this point to be released from my reply. I'm not gonna answer that. [[Thank you, that's an answer too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u200	Thank you very much. Who here wants to ask you another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senators rapporteurs. The draft law was introduced by Members. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Sebastian Gwałek, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister. If you'll excuse me, sir, I'd like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! I will present the position of the government regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Local Workers Act. I'll try not to take too much time, just to mention the most important things. As has already been the case here, the positions of advisers and assistants were implemented on the date of the entry into force of the Act of 21 November 2008 on local staff, i.e. on 1 January 2009, when the Act began to function. It's been a few years since then. This is the submission of the MP of Kukiz15, who in his explanatory statement put forward the argument on financial savings after the liquidation of such positions. From data collected by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration for 2015, sent by some local government units, not all local authorities replied It follows that only certain local government units are employed by advisers and assistants. Therefore, the liquidation of these posts should not prejudice the statutory tasks of the local authorities and may actually reduce the cost of financing them. According to the data collected, approximately 900 people are employed as advisors and assistants working in local government in the country. Consequently, it should be noted that this form of employment is not widely used. However, it is clear that the liquidation of the positions of advisors and assistants will contribute to the annual savings by reducing employment in local government units. These savings would amount to approximately PLN 41 million, according to the data provided. The difference between the 50 million figures is due to the respect that the applicants submitted because only about 80% The local authorities replied, hence the 50 million-dollar savings referred to in the explanatory memorandum of the parliamentary project. The proposed amendments will limit the groups of posts listed in the Act to two groups of posts on which employment takes place on the basis of a contract of employment, namely official posts, including management offices, and auxiliary posts and service posts, thus clarifying the status of posts in local government units and dividing them into positions of substance and service. In conclusion, in the light of the above arguments, the proposals for amendments contained in the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Local Workers, the Council of Ministers, however, welcomes the concerns. And here I am immediately in a hurry to explain that the doubts concerned the issue of the entry into force of the law and therefore the period of termination of the contract with these workers. In the course of the legislative work, this doubt was removed by the applicants by introducing a 14-day notice period or equivalent to the period of notice; after such time after the entry into force of the law, those persons with whom the employment relationship is to be terminated are to lose their employment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u202	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u203	I hope the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs also employs political advisers. My question is this: what did the political advisor delete, give this opinion, I would say, with the myth about which you have just said the Government Act, which is the Ministry of Administration supports, but does it have reservations about the form of termination of the employment contract? The government on the solidarity mask agreed to the original draft law in which people with long-term work experience were thrown on the floor with immediate effect. I do not know whether it is Polish or European philosophy, but it is increasingly seen in the work of the government. While you're concerned that this reservation has been made, my question is... Minister, in the meantime, the government, and this time rightly, has introduced into the Labour Code the principle that dismissals of fixed-term workers are normalized, so to speak, jumpingly. So you have a 14-day period of up to six months, after six months. A month and those who could have been employed 8 years At least 3 months. What makes you think that your government forgets the dignity of employees who are thrown out on the street with immediate effect, almost as bad as criminals?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u204	Thank you very much. Let me remind you of the time limit for the question: one minute. [[Oh, I fit.]] I'm asking the Minister for an answer. I'm sorry I didn't read the formula, but I thought it was a continuation of the questions. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute of questioning to senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The minister's office.]] ...to the minister, I'm sorry. [[Senator Rulewski didn't know that, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Then I have to do it again.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This information has actually already appeared today: the 14-day period during which the contract with the employees should be terminated was included in the existing law. At a two-week notice, the contract could be terminated with such an employee, it was a special arrangement for code solutions, and this was applied in this project. It was valid, it was introduced by a law that changed the rules... The question of evaluation remains whether those 14 days are other 14 days compared to those... Of course, this worker could remain in office until the end of his term of office, but it could also be terminated at any time after this 14-day notice period. So here there are no special sharpenings, they have not been introduced. This is the same period as the previous solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u206	But you... I ask why you have failed to take into account what you have introduced and what you have applauded, also on my part. Why didn't you apply the code rule, which is higher than the special rule? You senators argue that that solution was a solution to the PO-PSL coalition, and now you are in charge. You've introduced a code rule on a different deadline in case of termination. You didn't answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think I answered that question. It is a parliamentary project, and it has assumed this kind of solution modified in the course of its work in Parliament, in the Lower House. It should also be borne in mind that the bill enters into force 30 days after the President signed it. So we have another month to prepare people to quit their jobs, plus these 14 days... [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is, as I said, a solution specific to the solutions of the Labour Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u208	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Three questions. First. If there's a problem with the answer right now, I'd ask you, if possible, to answer in writing. How many assistants, attorneys in these political offices, what do they call themselves, ministries and central government departments work? How many of them are employed there? That's the first question. The second question is what you said, introducing us into the arkana of this law. You said that the assistants and attorneys functioned... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Advisor. Assistants and advisors.]] ...that assistants and advisers functioned in local authorities in January 2009. Before January 2009, could it not have been possible to hire advisors and assistants in Polish local governments? He'd ask for an answer. And the third question. Who will tell us, and how will this be monitored, how much after six months or a year have real savings in local governments due to the redundancies of all those who have been mentioned in the draft law?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u210	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u211	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! The first question concerning the number of persons employed in the central administration. Such data were not collected because they were not the subject of this bill. There's no such data collected. If there is such interest, then they will have to be gathered by, as I understand it, possibly our ministry. Alternatively, this can be done in connection with the senator's inquiry, there is no problem at all. I personally don't have an assistant or an advisor, and I don't need it for my happiness. Previously, prior to the entry into force of the Act, it entered into force on 1 January 2009.. These provisions were not in force. Alternatively, the secret is, under which conditions such persons were employed. Probably in competitions or civil law contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u213	I didn't get an answer to the third question. Will you follow the scale of savings in Polish local governments? In order not to speak again, I would ask that the answer be made in writing on the number of employees in the government administration in general, broadly understood, including central administration units.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u214	Of course, Mr. Senator. This information will need to be collected. As for monitoring, if necessary, after a year of validity of the law we will be happy to ask local governments... If they're kind enough to answer us, we'll have that information. Now not all were gracious. We'd like to know if they're hiring assistants. There is no possibility of pressure to obtain this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u216	Minister, I remember that bill from 2008. [[Nine o'clock.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Yes, on the eighth, and in the ninth...]] It was adopted in 2008. The posts of assistants and advisers in local governments were the consequence of such posts at the level of ministries. It has been transferred to a local government level, you can say, political offices have been moved, although they are not called political offices. But that's what it looked like. The example was taken from the ministry level. In this connection, I ask you: is there any work being done in the government to liquidate the political offices of ministers? This is my first and basically my only question. I would also like to ask for information on what they look like, how these offices are shaped at ministerial level in individual resorts, how many people work there. Then we'll figure out how many people work together in these political offices. It seems to me that if the Ministry agrees that it is necessary to go after assistants and advisors, although I have reservations here, because something else is an assistant or advisor in the city, which has more than 100,000 inhabitants, and something else and a completely different function. In the local government much smaller, district, communal, rural... So I have one question and a request to you for such information in writing, just like Senator Blackobay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the issue of government work on the liquidation of the so-called. political offices of ministries or central offices, I answer that such work is not carried out. And as far as written information is concerned, we'll hand it over. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Human fantasy, as well as self-government, knows no bounds. Here we have even met with such a case that it was difficult to consummate or implement the provisions of the Act on Regional Environmental Funds by omission, by obstruction. We've been through this, too, for example. on the issue of elimination from the council council of those who were after the verdicts, e.g. Councils did not adopt appropriate resolutions. Therefore, do you allow the Minister such a scenario that the Marshal of the voivodship will not release his people from the political office, from his office? Why? That's because the organizational structure of the office hasn't been changed. Why? Because it changes the management of the voivodship, and there is no such transitional provision in the law. Do you not think that a transitional provision should be supplemented by a law which will order the relevant authorities by a resolution, here we are talking about the local government and district government, or by ordering a change of organizational scheme, which will force In addition to the Act, the change in the number of posts, i.e. the dismissal of the relevant persons?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This element was not analyzed. This is the first such question. Of course, it would require an analysis of whether, in fact, the existing provisions of the draft law deal with this matter, as a matter of course. If not, then of course you would need an invention, e.g. States senators and complement this element. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u221	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u222	Minister, Senator Czerwiński, as I see it, has already given a possible path of inquiry to local government officials who are listening, and you are already telling us how to do what needs to be done. Good. Minister, I'd like to join Senator Borusewicz and Czarnobaj. It's about what you said... And I would like to extend the written reply so that I don't have to write a special statement. It is precisely how many of these advisers and assistants are employed in ministries and central authorities. And the point is to confirm once again how many of them are employed in local governments, which is whether they are 900 people. And I'd like you to extend this information about salaries so that you can tell us what it looks like in local governments, what the average salary is. I understand that this information needs to be collected and that it will take a little while, but we would like to know what the average salary looks like in local governments, and how it looks in central authorities, i.e. ministries, central authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u223	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I understand this is about written information, right? [[Yeah, for written information. The senator here said...]] I see. We do not have all the information about local governments, but as I said, not all local authorities responded. There is also no guarantee that all local authorities will give us answers, but we will try to get this information. [[But the Ministry will answer?]] Yes, of course. There's discipline here.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u224	Thank you very much. Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two points, two comments, two observations. The first question is this. At the committee meeting, Mr. Director said... You said that today, Minister. Also, if someone's been looking for information even on the Internet... Well, a strange situation, to put it mildly, is that we, as a state, as state bodies, can't even get information. Because some local authorities have provided such information, and some have said that they will not provide such information. Doesn't the Minister see any changes to be made here? After all, this is an information issue, it is not about giving names, it is about whether they employ or not, or whether they employ, information about earnings. When I was looking at the information, preparing for this discussion, I saw that the problem of offices, so-called. Political offices in local governments were a matter raised by local journalists on several occasions. And there were these mayors, mayors, presidents, and old folks who said, and I'm not going to reveal that information. Well, they're employees based on the Local Workers' Act. And we have a legal situation today that we can't even find out... There's been a report that 900 people, 50 million... [[Mr. Marshal... maybe that's how you put those arguments in the debate, huh?]] Wait a minute. And we can have it here... Senator Florek probably said we're adding 20%, so we're getting a number. In my opinion, this is the correct line of reasoning. I'm just afraid that in those 20% that didn't reveal the data, there was an over-representation, because, in fact, from the information that's coming out, it usually turns out that the mayors, the mayors, or they don't hire people like that, or 'Cause they're like that, too. They're like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Could you ask the senator something?]] And here's the question... The question is, Mr. Senator, do you not see the Minister's need to make changes so that the authorities of the state can collect such information? The situation that we can't get that information because the government can refuse, in my opinion is... [[He can't.]] In my opinion, it's... [[He can't. Civil Rights Act...]] [[He can't. The Public Information Act...]] [[Calm down, please.]] That's the first line. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, you can ask your question. And then there's the second line. One of those pathologies that was... I guess somebody's gonna say I'm giving you a method to get past this bill. Well, this law has just been implemented by one of the local governments... Let me ask you a question. Namely, this is about a certain president who employed a person for the so-called "students" without a competition. The political office. It was later amended by the 2008 Act. And there was a legal gap. I don't remember what year it was, I guess... [[In 2012, the Council ……]] ...three or four years ago, there was an amendment to this bill... [[In 2012, the Council ……]] ...due by other means, introducing the possibility of internal transfers at the office. Because until this amendment, when someone was employed in a position, let's say, a referee in department X, he had to work there and there was no possibility of relocation. Even if he wanted to move to another equivalent department, a competition would have to be held. Then the amendment was introduced, which gave the possibility of internal non-competition transfers, and one president invented such a clever way that he employed an assistant, and after some time he moved him within the office, already as a local government employee. He was doing this internal shift... [[Mr. Senator, I think the 60-second limit has been exceeded.]] I'm almost done. ...and hired another one. It was a method of introducing employees to the office without a competition. Is this possible in the light of the provisions of the current law still in place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u226	Mr. Senator, there are two questions. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the first question, the question of whether it is necessary to amend these rules, the Ministry of Home Affairs asked local authorities through the voivodships Not as part of access to public information, but officially. Unfortunately, in this situation there is no obligation to respond to a citizen's request. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course, provided the local government decides to respond. If he does not respond, you can, of course, claim your rights under administrative procedure to obtain this reply. It's a lot of things. [[Voice from the Chamber: Members and Senators can...]] That's right, for example. The senator may, of course, make such a request. It can be said that this self-government is so large that in principle the local government does not have to provide such information to the government or the minister. Perhaps it would be necessary to reflect on the introduction of solutions that would be required to inform about public spending, so that the inhabitants of the area know what they are allocated to. Perhaps you'd have to think about it. I do not, of course, rule out such a solution. I think we could be tempted to discuss this within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. Perhaps at the next meeting I will instill this idea of self-government. As to the answer to the second question, it seems to me that Mr. Senator, and everyone sitting here, are aware that the laws of law to themselves and life to themselves, and that in every situation, even in a situation where there is a competition for office... Before the entry into force of the Act, there were people This is the result of the information that appeared in the media They were employed and had a slightly different function than the one that was entrusted to them in the competition. Is that a possibility in this situation? Well, that depends only on the honesty of local governments. I think this kind of abuse of regulations or their... [[...use.]] ...use will probably take place. As we have all heard, there is always an example of a negative attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u227	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you are a representative of the government on the standing committee... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: In the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission.]] Yes, in the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. I have a question for you: did you present this proposal at the committee's meeting, and if so, what was the opinion of the local government? Was she different from what we read here? Because we have quite a clear and clear response from the representatives of the mayors, mayors and presidents. And one more thing. You're saying this is a project... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek:... Members of Parliament.]] ...messenger. Well, all these projects are parliamentary. I have this question: what is the basic justification for it? Are you staying with this information and this message that it's about saving 40 million or 50 million? Is this the only justification that has been presented in this supposedly-project of the Local Government Act? And I'd like... it sounded a little bit here, Mr. Senator. You can get all the information from the local government in public information mode and you can personally help the government, turn to these local authorities and then pass it on. And that sounded like a warning to the local government from the Minister, because in fact the local governments still have a piece of this independence... Question: Should they be afraid by now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, to answer such a long, partial question... A question came up from Senator Mr. Frost, and I answered it. I'm not gonna scare the local government. I've just informed you that this thread will eventually be raised by me on the joint committee. We'll ask the local authorities what they think about this idea. As regards the consultation of this project within the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, I would remind you that the parliamentary projects are not subject to the opinion of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. This opinion shall be submitted to the government. However, in a joint committee at one of the meetings, a brief discussion took place on this subject, but the formal position of the joint committee for obvious reasons does not exist.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u230	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u231	Thank you very much. Suppose I could be persuaded by the arguments contained in this parliamentary project. I suspect that if the government accepts this, it means that it shares this argument. In that case, I ask the Minister to inform me whether he is currently prepared in the government a project that would remove the positions of assistants and advisers in the ministries and the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, or whether such a project is planned. Because perhaps the arguments that we have heard here today are right, those about savings, the pointless employment of such people, etc. Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I've already answered that question. At the moment, there is no government work on a project to liquidate political offices in ministries or central offices. This topic was not the subject of this project either. The applicants have outlined the scope in this way, this only applies to employees employed in local governments, and the government is not planning a separate amendment, at least... [[Why?]] ...doesn't plan at the moment. [[Why?]] [[Why?]] This topic has not been analyzed as... [[Well, then I'm throwing it in your head. There you go.]] ...necessary... [[This is a parliamentary project...]] Senator, you have the initiative, you can always submit such a project.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u233	Thank you very much. Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u234	Mr. Marshal, I'm a little ad vocem to Senator Shark's words, because... please don't... [[You can't ask questions.]] ...insinuating also to me that we want to scare local governments. I was surprised that today there are no regulations that oblige local governments to provide information. The transmission of information is not a repression, Senator, let's not exaggerate anymore, let's not scare these local governments with what we don't know. I think if the minister asks for some information and he can't get an answer, there's a loophole in the law. But that's not scaring the local government. Thank you. [[And we're already in the debate, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Corrigendum.]] [[Is the debate on yet?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u235	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u236	Minister, just to be sure. This provision concerns advisers and assistants. Does this mean that local governments will still be able to hire attorneys?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u237	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the attorney may be an official employed in the office. It doesn't have to be an outsider. [[But is it okay?]] The form available in this situation is a civil law agreement. [[Thank you very much...]] [[I'm sorry. So, I take it the employment contract can't be done?]] No. [[So I was right?]] Such a person may be employed as an official and may also be appointed as a proxy. [[I see. Because it was created here, Minister, in questions to the rapporteurs such a controversy that the president of my city interprets this bill so that unfortunately he cannot employ a proxy on the previous rules. And he shows that he can't, because that person would have to go on a contract-order.]] Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, if the current attorney was employed on such terms, then he cannot remain a proxy in this form. And if the proxy was an official employed under the Local Staff Act, then he remains the proxy.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u238	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u239	I'd like to ask you, Minister, for an answer, how many in your ministry... Because you said you didn't have assistants. But how many advisors and assistants are employed in your ministry? How old are these people? And what's the cross-section of these people's earnings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Senator! In the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration there are no persons employed as assistants and advisors, there is only one employee of the political office, the director. As far as age is concerned, it's hard for me to say right now that thread hasn't been analyzed by me. Unfortunately, I also have no knowledge of this person's earnings. If this is of interest, of course we will be able to answer. [[I'm asking you to answer in writing. Thank you very much.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u241	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u242	Mr. Marshal, Minister, a brief question. The state, as I understand it, asked the local authorities how many posts, how many advisors and assistants, what are the rates, you multiplied it and it turned out that it is 41 million PLN. And in this question that you sent to the local government, did you ask whether the mayor, the mayor, the president, would fire these people after the law entered into force, or was that not the question?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u243	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that was not the question, because the applicants who asked to investigate the case did not ask that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u244	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Thank you very much.]] I inform you that the Minister, a representative of the government, has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Zdrojewska and Senators Czarnobaj, Borusewicz and Flork. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have nothing bigger and more significant to say than what Senator Florek has already said, because, so to speak, we are playing on the same logical and legal grounds by making amendments. It seems to me that from the perspective of good change it is not a good solution to the fact that it is a group of Members... but, however, with the support of the government, as his opinion demonstrates, it interferes with self-government, with local governments. There have already been arguments here that this is an unacceptable form. But she's partly justified, because since the law is limited or an institution has been introduced, I think it's best to bring it out. And that's just a justification. But I remind you... Here, in particular, a colleague asked what is the difference between political offices in government and local government offices or - Precisely. The employment of advisors and assistants. It is such a difference that the government is working on the basis of the laws and financial plans drawn up in terms of employment and accepted by the Ministry of Finance, more broadly, by means of the budget law, which is accompanied by the so-called. employment. This is not in local governments, because local governments are institutions that operate at their own risk and on their own responsibility, which are subject only to laws or tasks that belong to them. And that's the fundamental difference. That is why I believe that statutory interference, including Members' actions, is a violation of self-government. Come on, I think that I apologize for the rather harsh definition that the government, which is known as the union government, certainly a pro-worker, has made an example of this, this time made an act of treason. Betrayal is, Mr. Senator Frost, that the government has abandoned business or their... employees' interests in favour of a political contract with Kukiz's party. He made an expression here... [[Kukiz isn't a party, that's where you start.]] He's a party within the meaning of activity... The association is certainly not, because the associations in the Sejm do not sit. [[She's an election committee.]] There's a committee... Well, he's a parliamentary club of a kind, let's say, an association. And the government just made an agreement with the parliamentary club at the expense of the employees' interests. The interests of the employees were affected in such a way that the government, being aware of what it expressed in the opinion That they were harmed, in total supported this law. He supported the bill at the time it was written that the day after the law came into force, these workers would go to the pavement, and those with a month's employment period, and those with almost a 9-year employment period. And it is a betrayal of interest, although the ratio legis of this law is not subject to discussion. This was the case, but the government forgot that, in the meantime, since the social movement, its interest in the fate of workers has changed the rules of dismissal of temporary workers. And let me remind you that minimal... Senator, thank you for these gestures, but look in the Labour Code, which states that a period of 14 days' notice is in force for employment up to six months, and over six months this period is already a month, and it can be assumed that there are more workers among this group of employees and that this period is 3 months, and that is right. This is also the result of this ugly Europe, which protects the stability of workers' employment. Of course, this is a pact with Kukiz, because the intention is that the parties build themselves political facilities or support money in this case the inhabitants, the truth, or their taxes. Well, that's not entirely true... Probably... I do not rule out that there are such cases, maybe there are even a lot of cases, although their number indicates that this institution is not so popular, because it is forgotten in this Chamber that local governments are to a large extent Although I'm not able to say... apolitical. These are the authorities that are... institutions, or at least bodies chosen by direct elections, if this is the mayor or the president of the city, but sometimes... there are often local committees. And by putting it on one kind of wave This is due to your lack of knowledge, as you call it, not the Kukiza party, but the very party club, you have adopted the country and the government with the wrong term. And what do we do in this situation? Well, first of all, let's not mess up. Local elections show all this for the time being. They'll be here next year. [[Eleven o'clock.]] And now, in the name of a political contract, let's kick these people out of work. Let's throw it out, Minister... You're very right when you say it's not two weeks, it's more because the bill comes into force in a month. Yes, Minister, but if you're fired from the employment office, you only go when you get the receipt. I don't think the wife or children of this employee will be comforted by the fact that he won't be fired in two weeks, only in a month and a half. Either way, the protection of the employment relationship you've established will be greatly affected in ethical and moral terms. First of all, it's a mess. I believe that there are no reasons to justify the implementation of this law immediately. Second question. I don't know, Senator, although I'm not addressing you, every one of us, except maybe me, did some management functions and knows that the job is organized, not just for tomorrow, but sometimes for a long time. Now imagine the situation, for example. Advisors in Wroclaw. As I understand it, it could be someone who advises the president, for example. about some musical movement. Meanwhile, he is to leave this workstation immediately, let's say, with a two-week notice. Like this self-government. You want him to organize a job if we're interfering like this? If we had prepared a bill here under which your assistant, Senator Frost, we're slowing down in two weeks, I don't know if you'd be smiling like you're smiling right now. How would you arrange a job for yourself, for example? without a lawyer? That's the other thing. The third issue is the issue often emphasized here. The government, I see, has taken over, but fortunately, the government is not the author. There's talk of savings. What kind of savings? Do you think the government's money earned as a result of this guillotine bill will be paid back to the residents, will it reduce the tax? Or he's gonna use it to raise his employees where these salaries aren't big... It will simply amend the council's resolution, it will talk about expenditure conservation and increases for employees. Come on. It can spend this money on other purposes, because the government rules itself, so that there will be no savings. Maybe it's an extreme exit, because of the savings, to organize some kind of event that will be appreciated by the residents of a given local government unit. There's no savings here. The government is too sly, too cunning and too consistent to give back the money it has earned to anyone, especially to keep them in the budget as reserves or as savings. Therefore, Dear Izbo, I urge you to make some agreement, which Mr. Florek has started talking about, I am perhaps more consistent in this matter: let us not do this mess. If we already agree, and there is agreement that these so-called. Cabinets or counsellors aren't supposed to exist, so let it happen at the beginning of a new term. That's one thing. Secondly, let us keep these people's right to professional stability, and let the local governments, I remind you once again, operate according to their working plans, actions. Thirdly, let us keep, although perhaps later, the right not to interfere in the internal structures of local governments, in who, how many employees, etc. And fourthly, let's not create grounds to observe this bill. Several situations have been mentioned here. Senator Czerwiński showed insight, but he forgot that you can hire e.g. an advisory company in which, after someone will be malicious, which I do not believe It will work on the basis of the work commissioned by this fired assistant or advisor. This advisor can also work, which is even beneficial for the municipality's budget, on the basis of a work contract. For a year, it goes by. That's why I'm asking. Since the committee had doubts, and I see that it had a lot of them, perhaps the amendments that Senator Florek initiated, which I am giving even more consistent formula, will help to come out of this oppression.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The truth is that most Poles watch TV or in some other way devote themselves to entertainment or culture, so I will also start lightly. I will remind you of a scene from the cabaret of Egida, which appeared in the Polish cabaret in 1981. In this scene Fronczewski and Jan Pietrzak played chess, giving out various functions of government. It's that minister, it's some kind of car, a factory... They were sharing anyway. At one point Fronczewski said he won the game, and gave Pietrzak a ride playing chess. I'll tell you what, maybe somebody doesn't know. This is the term from the card eye. Pietrzak asked: What are you into? game Is it chess or dominoes? Fronczewski answered: I play what I win. Ladies and gentlemen, when I read the draft law on local governments, I listen to the reasons for the senators, it seems to me that this is not about any rules, it's about playing local governments, no matter what: dominoes, chess, checkers, just to make sure that we win. If it were the rules, law designers and Senators of Law and Justice would seek to demonstrate that the functions of assistant and advisors themselves are wrong, they are evil incarnate and must be eliminated everywhere or their legal status changed. What's the reality? You propose that these positions be removed in local governments, leaving them intact in government administration. An advisor employed without a competition, without a proven qualification, with a huge, supposedly, salary from the minister and the voivodeship is an incarnate good, and in the local government A synonym for political loosening and wasting social money. This cannot be accepted because if we want to apply the law, let us remember that one of the basic legal principles is that the law should be universal. And it comes to my mind when I think about this application of the law, the rule that what is allowed to be a minister and a voivode is not allowed to... [[Voice from the room:...alone.]] ...to yours. [[...stink.]] That can't be allowed. If you want to eliminate the positions of advisors and assistants, eliminate all these positions. The Minister said here that there was no such demand, no one asked, and he cannot answer, how many assistants and advisers are employed in the government sphere. I can't either. But listening to you here, I went through the Internet. This bill is circling... Polish media write about it and one of the newspapers stated that in Poland in political offices, mainly at the posts of assistants and advisors, there are about 10,000 people employed. [[Just?]] If we subtract... Suppose those local governments that employ more advisors didn't respond, and that there are 1 000 500 people employed by local governments, then 8,5,000 people are employed in the government sphere, including the voivodships. [[This is an outrage. This is an outrage.]] That's the scale of the problem we're talking about here today. I would also like to say a few words about the arguments you are using here to defend this bill. They're all false in my opinion. First argument: advisors and assistants are employed in a non-competition mode. Well, this argument might be of some value, but in the mouth of the Senators of PiS it sounds as credible as the theories of the Pharisees at the beginning of our Common Era. [[Talking in the O.R.]] After all, there is no party in Poland which, more than the Law and Justice, would not produce competitions as a principle of hiring people... [[From the office.]] [[Employees.]] ...workers in civil services. You think that competitions aren't important, that the minister's opinion or someone who's already employed is more important. You're building government personnel anyway. What does that mean? That like a minister hires an advisor or an assistant without a competition, it's fine, and like a voivode, it's be. [[Like a voivode, it's pretty good, too.]] [[Voices from the courtroom: Marshal.]] Yes. Thinking that skipping competitions for executive positions in state civil service is good, and in local governments it's bad, it's pure hypocrisy. Second argument. Advisors and assistants form political offices in municipal authorities. I don't know what the word "political" means to self-government. But let's reach out to the deepest sources, Aristotle. What is politics? It's the art of government. Gentlemen Senators and Mr Senator, the politician is practically every employee of the local government, and already every employee in the management position. More of a politician is a warden, a department manager than an assistant and an advisor who, as the name says, It can advise, assist, but rarely can make decisions. In Elbląg, the president recently hired an advisor. He hired him because he wanted the local government to be prepared to implement the educational reform, which was so introduced that the local authorities could not prepare for it normally. And this person who was employed as an advisor, former Deputy Minister, was not interested in working for longer in the local government, so her function was in line with the president, the local government was in line with that function, because this person was supposed to do his job and leave. An excellent formula for solving such a problem. And there's a lot of problems like that in local governments. When I hear here that many of today's senators were self-government, I'm surprised you don't see these arguments. The third argument, repeated at the committee meeting, maybe a little less here. Counselors aren't only incompetent, they make a lot of money. Well, given the data provided by the government's representative, regarding the fact that over 2.5 thousand local governments work with 900 advisers and assistants, and their wages seem to be about PLN 40 million each year, a simple calculation shows that the average advisor or assistant earns PLN 3 000 700 gross. What a pay chimney. I think that the senators who empathized with examples here, that advisors earn PLN 6,7,000 a month, they probably came across all those advisors who make $7,000 a month, because the rest of them would have to earn $2,000 a month. To sum up... The bill in this form does not eliminate any evil, because there is really no evil in this act. And it won't save any money in the local government's money, because if you bothered and didn't do it in the parliamentary project, it's the normal one, which requires consultation, it's the local government, the government, the presidents, they'd tell you why they're hiring these people as advisors and assistants. And they will hire them. Not to fool the state, but because these people are needed by local governments. Self-government is the last body in which one can employ and require nothing of the Misiewicz people without public control. This law, and I think that is the purpose of this law , makes a bad climate around local governments. I think that's what the piss is all about. There was one attempt to create a bad climate around local governments by reducing the term of office to two terms. Here we are dealing with the same phenomenon. You screamed that you had to limit the term of self-government, because then they put their uncles, friends and guys in jail. But you didn't talk about this rule anymore, for example. MPs. Why? Because it's you guys? Like a rule, it's a rule. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. This law should be regarded as part of the black PR around local governments and as part of the de facto electoral campaign. Now, back to the initial example... That's the last sentence. Together with Kukiz15, the PiS and Kukiz organize a chessboard in front of the Poles to play it so that the local government gets a ride. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u248	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll change the order... Based on what my esteemed colleague Senator Wcisła said, I will tell you what is probably at the heart of this bill. Because it certainly cannot be said that there is some logic, some care for the state or other things that you make up, giving examples. 2,000 500 municipalities and over 300 powiats, voivodship... It's made of about 3,000 units, and you find one example of someone doing something wrong, and you say it needs to be changed. It's like that ad campaign for the courts. You've found one judge who hasn't worked in courts in 11 years, and on this basis you're telling us how the courts work. What concerns the draft of this law on the initiative of Kukiz...15... I understand that they can report such a draft. I don't know if any of them worked in local government or anyone in Kukiz15 understands the idea of self-government. Many senators and Members of Law and Justice are people who have worked years in Polish local governments. When I worked in Polish local governments for 20 years... I'm sorry, but I'm going to quote what we said back then: wise guys in the Polish Seym or the Senate make up stupid things. And that is an example, ladies and gentlemen, of such foolishness. He's needed for what you said, Senator Strictly... You love self-government so much and you like self-government so much. I'm going to use a common term here like my dog loves a neighbor's cat. You love these local governments so much that you create such an atmosphere of friendship... that you have limited the powers of local governments in the field of education. Now it will be the curator who will give an opinion on the consultative project that results from this friendship, the Dear Senators of Law and Justice. The fact that you have limited the influence of local governments on expenditure related to the regional environmental fund also results from your concern for the local government and the citizen. And so you can multiply and multiply these examples. You want to create a centralized state, managed from Warsaw, and yet you want to dictate how many cleaning women, how many staff, assistants, etc. He's supposed to work in every municipality. If someone worked in a decent municipality or in a decent local government unit as an executive body, i.e. the mayor, the mayor or the governor, he would date the council as follows: the councilmen, I want 8% from our budget spend on administration, service of the entire unit of a given local government. And the board said, okay, please, that's all we're giving. After all, you're creating a complete fiction... I suspect that Kukiz15 as an antisystem group came to a group so loving Polish local governments and said this: let's do a deal, we need success, we will eliminate assistants in local governments, and in return you will support a veto against the veto of the President... Or there were other deals. Well, for these two years, I've learned about your simple, benevolent behaviour in Polish politics. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd like to say yes. That's why I asked the Minister and I'll ask him next year. I hope I don't forget. How much savings will really be... And I want to tell you that the locals are gonna laugh at you. And I am going to preach everywhere and in the light of the fact that, as it were, I voted with both hands against stupidity and against draft laws that have nothing to do with the rationalisation of employment, the rationalisation of spending, etc., etc. But if we want to go this way and turn everyone on, that's what Senator Wcisla was talking about. And we have to keep saying that, and we should all be telling you this... Because if we want a courtship of the mayors, mayors, presidents, we go to that cadence, but when it comes to a Member or a Senator, no, no, we're from another cop! I mean, like a smart senator like you, we'd be in two terms... After all, Poland would collapse if the Senators of the PiS had to leave after two terms of office! [[From the Platform, too.]] They would have left without an election. And this is your beloved mentality, which manifests itself in love and concern for Polish self-governments. And besides, you guys want to follow that good old-fashioned rule... Well, that's what the senator said about the chess game, the eyeball game or whatever. This is how you play with the Polish society in every area. So it is best to divide those who work in local governments. Because what's the rule? If he splits, he's better in charge. And the fact that it will have no effect, and that people will continue to piss and say that the Senate and the Sejm invent the greatest stupidities of the world that have nothing to do with reality, wisdom, taking care of the state budget, etc., etc. But it won't hurt us anyway. After all, we still have the lowest ratings in society when it comes to social trust. So if we have 30%, or we're going to have 25, you don't care. We could have 10%. And still, somebody wins and rules. But if you really want to do things that make any sense, then I am particularly appealing to Members and Senators who have had something to do with local governments for some years. Let's not be ridiculous because of laws that are illogical, etc., etc. I hope there will be a draft law soon, and I hope it will be a government project, Minister. It really eliminates what is harmful to Poland: political offices in government administration. Because here you choose people not according to competence, but yes: passive, mediocre, but faithful, it serves well, so it is for government administration! [[Like Misiewicz.]] I'm not gonna talk about names anymore... You can't see him anymore, so maybe the boy's already gone to a decent job. In this respect, I would like to see this principle primarily applied to government administration. But once we've done it to everyone, including the government, let's do it to the local government. And every self-governmentman, Ladies and gentlemen, will find a peaceful way out, because the council of the commune, the county council, the local governments, the seymikas of the voivodships... Also, the Podkarpackie Seymist will do so so that he will not fire anyone currently employed, even if he is an advisor or assistant. I would like to say once again: Dear people, show some wisdom and a little love for Polish self-governments, give them confidence, and you will see that only Poland co-ordinated by government and local government administration is giving results. The government from Warsaw, the management from Warsaw, as the recent problems with the storms have shown, always ends tragically. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u250	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u251	I'm gonna ask you not to write me down after Senator Czarnobaj, because after him, you don't stand a chance. And it's a really difficult role to focus your attention then. But I'll try to keep it short. Ladies and gentlemen, I probably wouldn't take the floor. I was just asking the Minister's questions. If I hadn't been provoked by one of the senators by the fact that we were speaking because the PSL Platform made a bill in 2008, and that's why they're the assistants that we're defending it, and so on. No, I think I'd be willing to vote for a good bill that would eliminate these functions, but only if we didn't deal with the hypocrisy we're dealing with here. This hypocrisy is that we're shutting down these jobs in local governments, and we're not shutting them down in ministries. I would have voted in favour of such a bill, but I must also say what it looks like right now. If you're saying that we're speaking politically here, then I'm going to have a political comment, too. I'm not gonna mention names very much, but let's just say we've heard of you as advisors... Do you remember a counselor who... I don't mean Mr. Bartholomew M., the most famous advisor. I'm not talking about the most famous advisor. You must remember Edmund Janniger. It was also one of the advisors who worked in the MON, known under the pseudonym "Golden child of Minister Macierewicz." [[We remember Edmund Klich, Senator.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is the largest office in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. That's where 20 people work. And now I'm going to give the yearbooks, but only advisors, not assistants, because the fact that the assistant is, let's say, 25 or 30 isn't weird, but the counselor should already have some experience, some knowledge, etc. These are the same yearbooks, without names, although they are also revealed somewhere in BIP data: 1994, 1987, 1986, 1986, 1974, 1991, 1993, 1991, 1991, 1991, 1991, 1991. [[They're old horses now, Senator.]] I know you always talk about horses, Mr. Senator... [[Fun in the room]] ...but don't interrupt me. This is where the income data was given. Where did they come from? I suspect that these assistants and counsellors in local governments actually make about $3,000, but as for advisors in KPRM, we know exactly how much they make. They are the ones who earn from 6 thousand 608 PLN to 7 thousand 476 PLN. These are the official data given by KPRM to one of the magazines. [[$3,000 a hand.]] No, Mr. Senator. Plus, as we know, extras, special bonuses, cars, all kinds of privileges, trips, etc., etc. I'm not talking about the other ministries anymore. The only situation I would defend is the very criticized Mr Tymon Radzik, 16, employed in the Ministry of Digitalization by Minister Streżyńska. I believe that if this ministry employs an advisor, which is, for example, A hacker or a prominent specialist, he could be 16 years old. And I would absolutely defend him. Nevertheless, in other cases, I cannot imagine that the Prime Minister or any clerk of the Prime Minister's Office calls a 20-year-old and says to him, "What am I supposed to do? Tell me about it. Well, I can't imagine it. It's kind of funny, it's just fiction. After a few years such assistants are transferred to the post of advisors That's what it looks like. And let me tell you, that's what it looked like before. I'm not saying it's just now. Well, maybe there's more pathology that we've learned about... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, really. These situations with Mr. Counselor Misiewicz or this young man, Janniger, are really proverbial and I think they will be history. I was talking about hypocrisy. That's a strong word. Why are we dealing with hypocrisy? Because you've just made an appointment with the coalitionist, probably, that you'll support it, but you've refused to... After all, Kukiz demands that the offices be removed at all. He's also talking about ministries. So you've made some concessions. If you vote it out. Although I hope you won't do it again after this discussion. It turns out it was just some kind of political agreement with a coalitionist. And we're used to it because we remember your agreements and conversations, like... with Mrs. Renata Beger, and we know what coalitions look like... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] ...conversations. And why are you the only one who can talk about tapes? I can talk about tapes, too. [[Senator, step up to the next level. It's not right.]] Yes, sir. [[It's not right.]] I remind you of that because I don't like hypocrisy. And I think if you don't vote for this bill... [[We'll vote.]] ...and you will vote, as Senator Frost says... Well, then we're gonna do the project, and we're gonna hold to the word of some of you, the liquidation of the offices at all. I think we'll do it then, if you don't do it, and we'll see what you can do. Offices in KPRM, ministries That's what they're gonna say. [[We'll back you up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Kukiz party15 is a populist party. PiS is a non-popularist party that doesn't do certain things. So I'm still appealing to these people... And I heard today in the statements of some senators that there are doubts on your side as well. I appeal to a sense of responsibility. If you don't have to call yourselves hypocrites, then step forward, please, to eliminate the political offices in the ministries. And we're going to support that, because then we're going to think that you're doing it out of savings, for the good of society, so that there's no pathology, so that you don't lose money, so that you can spend it, for example. for medication or for something else, etc. [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] And what's the other reason... Will you speak now, Senator? What other reason is there for this than a concession to the coalition? And what's the reason you're going to vote for this, and you're not going to vote for it in the case of the ministry? Tell me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u252	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Frost will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I listened to this discussion, and frankly, I think it's a good thing it's an evening time, because some of the speeches were I'd say That's a little funny. I'm gonna try to sort things out first, and in the second part, I'm gonna refer to some of the statements... The first question is political offices. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you've been in charge for eight years, you could have eliminated these political offices. And it's like... So I would very much ask you not to advise us now, what we should do, because you were 8 years old, and today we have, Mr. Senator, our time and we make such decisions as we consider good for Poland. With regard to the so-called. Political offices in local governments and the fact that this is an attack on local governments, I will remind you that you introduced them in 2008. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2009. Somehow local governments have functioned since the 1990s. Somehow these mayors, mayors, old men, and marshals have been doing well for so many years without political offices. And suddenly there was a thought in the Civic Platform and in the coalition PSL that we also need to introduce politics into local governments. Here there was a lack of logic with you, because on the one hand you are introducing political offices to local governments, and on the other hand, one of the guiding slogans of the Civic Platform was the words: let's not do politics in local governments. I'll remind you. It is one of the slogans of one campaign in the local elections. I will skip the deal with the Kukiz party15. I've already explained that Kukiz15 is not a political party. Just make a good bill, it is the Law and Justice that will support this law, just as Kukiz has passed the law and this law has been supported. There was one point raised here, Mr. Minister, about it, which raised some doubts in our ranks. It's a 14-day termination period with these employees. But like... in my questions to the Minister, I made a point. After checking it, because I wasn't sure either, but then I checked these rules, it turned out that in the light of today's laws, each of these 900 employees employed in the so-called. Political offices may lose their jobs within 14 days. The principle introduced by this law is identical to the principle enshrined in the current legislation. So we're not taking anything from anyone here. Each person employed in a non-competition system, and so there are assistants and advisors, has to face less protection. If she was hired without a competition, the protection of her employees' rights is much lower. This also applies to the solutions put forward to us in other laws concerning government administration, where we have eliminated competitions. Only that the consequence of their liquidation in the various authorities of government is the ease of dismissing these people, as well as the ease of calling them. This is a consequence of this form of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, there was talk of costs. Data from 2015, publicly available: Advisor to President Krakow, gross earnings. 7 thousand, Advisor to President Łomża 6,500 gross, Advisor to President Konin 8 000 400 PLN gross. This is data from the Internet. It's in the context that these people almost work for free, they almost add to this function. These are wages similar to those in these positions in the government administration. Let me answer the question that has been raised many times here, how many assistants are employed by the government. Of course, the Minister will answer in writing probably very precisely, after counting, because unlike local governments, the Minister may collect this data. As it turned out, the local authorities refused to provide information to the Minister. In this context, my question has been raised to the Minister and I hope that the Minister will raise this issue more widely, not in the form of terror, Senator, but as information. And how many advisors are there in the government administration? I will answer very simply: as many as were behind the Civic Platform. So if the senator has any questions, you can ask your colleagues who were in the government, and there are a few of them in the courtroom, and they'll answer you. We're not adding anything here. What is the difference between government and government? The essence is that in local governments, as you say, there is no policy. That's why political offices aren't needed. But nobody says the Minister is apolitical or the Prime Minister is apolitical. We're not hiding it. Every minister is political, every voivode is political and leaves with a change not even of government, but of prime minister. It's automatic. Even when the Prime Minister changes as part of the coalition, the Voivodeships must resign automatically. We don't hide what's political, where there's political facilities, where there's nonpolitical facilities. I no longer remember who of your senators raised such a question, perhaps Senator Zdrojewska, that there is a person who has to perform a specific task in local governments, so she was employed. Ladies and gentlemen, local governments really have very different forms of employment opportunities. The primary task is to appoint representatives, and it is to employ representatives. I, in my question to the Minister, gave an example of a certain circumvention of the law on local workers through offices. I don't know, because the minister didn't answer my question, didn't he change it, or wasn't it blocked? But in the back door people were introduced and given status as local workers. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, to become a local government employee You've been working in local governments, you know. Not only do you have to win the competition, but also go through an internship completed with the exam. And, as I said, one president hired an assistant, and then as part of the internal transfers he made him a local government employee, he was already employed without a competition, without the required employee placement and exam, and he acquired these rights. That, in my opinion, was a big loophole in the rules. Ladies and gentlemen, one more such question at the end, because it is already late not to extend. One of the senators, I suppose, if I wrote it correctly, Senator Blackobay, was talking about trust, low ratings. Dear Senator, we, unlike many other formations Don't mention names. We are consistently implementing our program. And I think 40% of Law and Justice ratings are the best answer, that what we do enjoys the trust of Poles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u254	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Flork. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The senator was just talking about being able to transfer from the assistant position and then hiring without a competition. Yes, in 2009, as was the law, it turned out that there was a possibility and this was soon corrected. As far as I remember, this law was amended in 2012 and can no longer be done. As for this bill, we also have examples that we can probably find a way in. And it's probably gonna have to be corrected, too. So it happens that there really is a gate. Therefore, there was a quick reaction here, and these people stayed, so to speak... It's been corrected. Senator, you're selective again. That's what I was talking about. He thought he was out there again. You mentioned to the city of Konin that some assistant or advisor earns $8,000 a month there. Well, of course, we can find examples that some counselor somewhere in another community, maybe even in a small community, earns more than he should. But these are selective examples. You have to operate on some kind of average. I can serve you at the Ministry... 'Cause I've been checking, even with names, and I know they make a lot more money. And these are very large amounts, above PLN 10,000, because there are extras and so on. not just the basic amount we're talking about. So it's kind of manipulating the information, Mr. Senator, that it's served. Let me get to one more thing. You said that it was the Civic Platform that introduced this law, that it only applies to local governments and that it should be amended. And that's why you think this proposal is right. And I'd like to ask you, who do you love more? Maybe you love it too far... or the Platform or something. SLD? Because do you remember who put political offices in the bill, who did it? What year was that? I remember that. 1997 It was the SLD that introduced the political offices. And this country doesn't... The fact that the Platform introduced, you remember, and the fact that the SLD introduced, in 1997, that's okay with you. So that's what the Democratic Left Alliance has put in place. It's okay then. So I'd like to be consistent here in what you're saying. 'Cause for us, there's no question that I'm resuming right now. We would support this liquidation law. Because there's abuse, it happens, actually. We can treat it selectively. But you can generally say that it wasn't stupid that the mayor, the mayor or there, say, the marshal or the old man, hired an assistant. And once again, 900 out of 2,000 500 municipalities... and what savings? How many savings will the municipality have if she hired one assistant? And that's what it usually looks like. Well, split 2,000 500 zlotys, because that's what he makes on average... Come on, split it up. What's the profit for the commune? This budget is gonna have to be improved because there's gonna be extra revenue? Well, that's not gonna make a lot of money. Bottom line, I'm saying that we would definitely support this project if it were so. assistants and advisers in the local government, as well as those whom the SLD introduced in 1997, i.e. advisers who are employed in ministries. They're young too... Besides, we had examples here. It's a political deal, and there's no doubt about it... After all, Kukiz15 wanted everyone to be involved in this, so that this would also apply to the government administration, i.e. the ministries and central authorities. Well, it's just that it's been agreed to be a certain success on the side of Kukiz.15... Once this bill comes into force, they'll probably be bragging about how much money they've saved thanks to this bill. That, of course, will not be true. What could possibly have been done was to eliminate all such offices... There is no doubt that it would be with the support of all of us that we would support this. Oh, yeah, in this situation, we can only count on a committee meeting. Tomorrow, I guess. And for this act of justice... The point is that these people shouldn't be fired in two weeks, just that according to the work code, as Senator Rulewski said, it all took place. There is still hope that tomorrow we will all vote in favour of the amendment to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u256	Thank you very much. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As is usually the case with this kind of discussion, when we come to the end, there is some inspiration and something to be said. I'm not hiding that you inspired me with your Senator's speech. I know which one of those speeches has been funny so far. I'm not gonna say which one. Just to make it easier, it wasn't one of the Senators of the Civic Platform. And it's hard to guess which one was funny... And now for this ridiculous thing. Never... In this sense, the formulation of political offices in local governments has been understood. I'll remind you that here in the bill we're talking about advisors and assistants. Those who have worked in local governments since 1990, like my humble person, have created the organisational structure of each office for the needs and tasks that were. Of course, the further into the woods, the... Probably in some places there was a political structure, there was a political assistant, etc. I don't deny it. Senator, please do not use the same methodology as for this billboard scandal. For 10,000 judges You found one judge who stole his pants, while He hasn't worked for a judge in 11 years, or a judge who hasn't ruled who's just sick... And you're showing these examples. You found, like, three examples, probably reprehensible, I don't know... Do you know all the 900 people you spoke of in the Minister, and you know that they are those who behave reprehensibly, and therefore should not work? That's one thing. Secondly, once again, I would like to say briefly and in Polish I'm not going to repeat the whole speech. That local authorities will still find a solution if they need a person. You, Mr. Senator, with your insight and miraculous inspiration regarding the ordering of Polish self-governments, are unable to do so by administrative means... I want you to understand this very complicated sentence. Again... Maybe I won't repeat it or I'll get caught. Once again I would like to say: wise guys from Warsaw will not heal Polish local governments, even if they are senators. More confidence in local governments and building a community in achieving goals. And a word at the end. You said the same as the Civil Platform rule... I want to tell you. Let's bet; dollars against walnuts that there are certainly more assistants and these advisors. Since we have the largest number of ministers and vice-ministers in the EU countries in the history of 27 years in the state of government, do you think there are fewer assistants? No. I bet there's more. We have the largest number of ministers and vice-ministers, Secretarys of State from the countries of the European Union, I repeat this once again. Finally, regarding this trust, etc., etc. Of course, no one's denying that you have confidence... I wonder why so big... In the end of the 19th century, Alexis de Tocqueville wrote that if the United States Senate understood, thought and realized that it was possible to buy voters with budget money, it would be the end of American democracy. And I'd like you to read this book, because then you'll understand why Law and Justice will have such high support for the short term that it will someday end, probably. Please do not mention such things, because once again I would like to say that trust in society in Members and Senators is at one of the lowest levels. This also applies to Members and Senators of Law and Justice. And with such laws, we are also reducing confidence in good legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u258	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing I do not know whether Senator Jan Rulewski's conclusion is correct. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the submitted... [[But wait a minute, Mr. Marshal, we have also asked the Minister to respond in writing.]] But that's been said before. [[Oh, it was. I'm sorry.]] Right now, it's not about... Is the Minister still willing to speak or not? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Chwalek: No, not anymore.]] Thank you very much. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... here at the end of the Senate meeting, but tomorrow we will vote. We'll vote tomorrow at the end... [[Day.]] ...at the end of the day... not at the end of the day, but at the end of our sitting tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: a law on specific arrangements for improving the quality and availability of health care services. The text of the Act is contained in print No 599 and the report of the Commission In print No 599 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I would like to present a law in print No 599 on specific arrangements for improving the quality and availability of healthcare services. The proposals contained in this project aim to enable the Minister responsible for Health to transfer grants to medical equipment and equipment not only to medical entities established or supervised by him, but also to others who provide healthcare services which are currently most relevant to public health, e.g. oncology. The regulations proposed in the proposal result from the fact that the state of infrastructure in health protection is considered unsatisfactory. An essential element of a functioning health system is the proper state of the medical apparatus. In addition, rapid technological and technical progress in all areas of civilization also translates into a dynamic development of new therapeutic and diagnostic methods and new medical technologies, which makes it necessary to invest permanently. Therefore, to prevent inter alia. the operation of medical equipment and apparatus or the inability to use modern technologies, there is an urgent need to finance the notified needs in this regard in order to improve the quality and level of medical services provided. An important part of the financial resources for the purchase of medical equipment and equipment will be used to modernise the diagnostic and therapeutic capabilities of selected fields of Polish medicine, namely pediatrics and child surgery and oncology, which is extremely epidemiologically important. We find that in our country the incidence of cancer unfortunately has a growing trend. The planned purchases focus on the new quality of diagnostic equipment and non-invasive treatment such as laparoscopes, thoracoscopes, histeroscopes, gasscopes, colonoscopes, etc. equipment, and in the case of children also for modern non-invasive diagnostic equipment, e.g. modern expanded ultrasonography. In the case of oncology, the development of brachytherapy, which so far is available in a residual form. In addition, equipment for emerging breast cancer treatment centres, equipment or equipment for laser therapy centres in children is envisaged for the treatment of congenital vascular anomalies, which are the most common congenital defect. Due to the inaccessibility of certain methods of laser therapy in our country and the long waiting period for these procedures, Polish children continue to go to treatment abroad, including for the funds of the National Health Fund. There are sometimes tens of thousands of euros in funds for the treatment of a single patient. It is also proposed to increase the funding for equipment and medical equipment for healthcare providers who provide hospital treatment services for the neonatology department III of the reference level. Currently, in most voivodships there are periodically lacking places for intensive therapy of the newborn, which results from a rapid, unpredictable increase in demand for these benefits. As we know, mothers in Poland are born at an increasingly later age, and there are also quite large numbers of imperial cuts. There is therefore a need to maintain a number of beds in intensive neonatological therapy. It is therefore necessary to extend the infrastructure for intensive therapy of the newborn. The Act also provides for the implementation of a new task, which is to equip health prevention offices in schools run by local government units. Art. 6th Act provides for 100% funding for the equipment of health prevention offices, but up to a maximum of PLN 6 000 700 per office. In addition to the purchase of equipment for health prevention offices in schools run by a local government unit, the project also provides for the purchase of vehicles providing health services in the field of dentistry, so-called. Dentobuses. The use of modern, equipped dentobuses, which will serve patients in many localities, will allow for optimization of the cost of creating and equipment dental offices, and thanks to the constant cooperation of a dentist with a nurse of the teaching and education environment or a school hygienist students will have dental care provided without additional costs, including without spending time to reach a dentist. It is envisaged in the first stage to purchase 16 such dentobuses, i.e. one for each voivodship. The maximum limit for expenditure of the State budget resulting from the financial effect of the entry into force of the provisions of the present Act in 2017 will be PLN 281.8 million, including for the parts at the disposal of the Minister of Health The last article, that is, the article. 9 of the Act, amends the Act of 4 November 2016 amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. Those amendments aim to increase the limit of the maximum expenditure for 2017 and 2018 borne by the State budget for the purchase of vaccines for compulsory preventive vaccination in accordance with the preventive vaccination programme established for the year in question. The need to increase these limits in 2017 is linked inter alia. with the entry into force of the Regulation of the Minister of Health amending the Regulation on preventive vaccination, which introduced an obligation to vaccinate all children born after 31 December 2016 against pneumococci. In accordance with the public procurement rules, it would be advisable to carry out the entire tendering procedure by concluding and signing the contract and providing vaccines for approximately 4 months, so that vaccination against pneumococci can continue to continue at the beginning of 2018 in order to enable the purchase to continue this year, i.e. in 2017. At the Health Committee meeting, there were actually no votes against. The Commission unanimously adopted the draft resolution and asks the High House to adopt this law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Chudowska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u261	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, at breast cancer centers or breast diseases?
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u262	Breast cancer treatment centers. [[Breast cancer.]] Yes. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u263	Are there any more questions for the rapporteur? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Peter Bite. Would the Minister like to speak? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, no questions asked. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just a little bit. I think that all the doubts were resolved during the committee meeting, but there is one element left that raises our doubts. That is what we talked about and what we discussed at the committee meeting about the issue of dentobuses. From the information we've obtained from talking to the dentist's community... Well, in short, Minister, there is no enthusiasm about taking this service. Not because of the unwillingness to provide this service, but because of the burden on people who are to provide dental services, any other costs related to the bus, bus, privileges, etc., as we discussed at the committee meeting. That's one thing. Secondly, the Minister at the committee meeting said that talks with the NFZ will only be held. Of course, this project comes in, as we know, I have been talking about dentobuses since 2018. So we're going to have conversations, calculations, what stakes we're talking about to encourage us to do this. We think it's much simpler, much safer... But before I say it, I'm gonna mention it because the minister wasn't at the committee meeting... Examples have been given that there have already been attempts to run such a program and that there has always been a problem with the operation of the vehicle in which the service was provided. I personally believe that such a concentration in the form of non-building in every school, small, medium or large, separate office... that such a service is a good solution and I think it is worth going in this direction. But there's this difficult transition period, and maybe it's worth not burning it on the pan, finding out that during the first period, After all, this can later be changed by the owner of the dentobus, you are the governor, as a representative of the government, and the medical service contract is signed with the doctor who will provide this service. Therefore, together with Senator Tomasz Grodzki, we are making an amendment that is precisely saying that the words of the provider referred to in paragraph 1. The word "voivode" is replaced by "voivode." And that's our only doubt. The other one is so delicate... [[One and two...]] With this very good budget condition, we hope that in the years to come... Because, as we know, what's relevant to health care... I'm looking here at your marshal, your chairman, your minister... This is the field. Excuse me, Doctor too. • which, without any political effort, requires financial support. And I think that we will be the expression of everyone here: it is good that this kind of task will be carried out from this year and in the following years. We hope that with a good budget condition also with more funding. Mr. Marshal, I submit a draft amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u265	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Leszek Czarnobaj and Tomasz Grodzki. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you, first of all, for a constructive approach to this law. After all, we all want access to healthcare services to be the best possible. This law is of an investment nature. We are talking here about the investment measures to be spent in those areas that the senator mentioned. Secondly, I would like to address this point by the senator and try to persuade you to withdraw this amendment. I'm gonna make my argument right now. That's the way... Oh, and one more thing. Senator Wojtyla spoke about certain experiences in the use of cars, let's call it medical. In preparing for this Senate meeting, I also tried to find out how the Senate Health Committee held its meeting. This idea was taken from the solution that the Minister applied to the World Youth Day organization, when the voivode made ambulances available to the appropriate institutions, and they covered the costs of operating these ambulances. Of course, it can be said that those operators who used ambulances were specialised in the use of vehicles, but here the case is more complex, because such a vehicle acts as an auxiliary to health services. However, I would like to point out that the dentobus may be a big bus or a truck, but it may also be a smaller vehicle, located on a smaller car. And then the costs, as well as the problems of operating this vehicle, are much smaller. Rather, we're going this way to make these smaller vehicles easier to operate. The issue of who is to bear the running costs associated with the operation of the vehicle affects the essence of the approach to the entrepreneur's activities. 'Cause if it's an entrepreneur The organiser who is to provide access to dental services and who becomes a competition It will not bear the running costs associated with car maintenance, it simply may not take care of this car properly. And that's why we've adopted this solution, based on the belief that if they're prepared... This will probably be a programme prepared by the National Health Fund and a competition will be organised for the implementation of this programme. If the operator implementing this program is not responsible for the use of this vehicle, this vehicle will be devastated. In general, we believe that doing business without the costs directly linked to this activity is a bad solution, and that is why we have adopted such solutions. Furthermore, we must take into account that the organisers of this benefit, i.e. those who win this competition, may differ. It's like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, And why aren't they supposed to win the contest? Why don't they hire dentists? Why should they not provide access to healthcare services in this regard? And why this competition can't win, for example. hospital and by participating in this competition to award both yourself and the county, which is its host body? Because such a dentobus is in my opinion an excellent promotion of the position of a given hospital. I'm the director of the hospital, if I had the right base, I'd run in this contest. Because that would give me a chance to be in the whole voivodship. And if I had another area of dentistry, I would definitely be in it, because it's very, very interesting in terms of building a certain position of a given entity. Well, taking advantage of this opportunity... And in that sense, if I were, I'd have to bear the direct costs of operating this vehicle. Finally, one legislative issue. Well, if these costs were on the side of the voivodeship, they would have to be put into the spending rule and they would have to be described in the next 10 years. That is why I think the solution proposed here is good. And since I know that you also want this bill to come into force and that it will work, I ask the senator to withdraw his amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u267	Good. Thank you very much. Ad vocem, right? There you go. Because right now you can't speak, but ad vocem always. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! What you said is 100% in my knowledge and in my heart. I'm the only one who could raise some doubts. I'm not saying they're gonna work out, I'm just talking about some of the doubts that were raised at the committee meeting. And I can give you solutions that consume the fact that the governor is the owner, and they're gonna sign up for everything you're saying. And that's one thing. And especially in this first stage, it may be worth combining these two cases. That's first of all. Secondly, as the Minister noted, Professor Grodzki and I are the authors of these amendments. Well, I know Professor Grodzki trusts me a lot, but if I withdraw, he says: listen, I have a very different opinion... That is why, from a legislative point of view, this is also the main reason. I can't do that right now. I think we're gonna have a quick discussion tomorrow at the committee meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u269	Okay, thank you very much. Because they've been reported... Already, Minister? Yes? Thank you very much, Minister. Because they've been reported... He stayed because it's one conclusion, right? As a single legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. And the vote will take place tomorrow at the end of senate day. I'm asking you to present your messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u270	Messages. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the requests submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Local Staff Act will take place tomorrow, i.e. 22 September, Friday, 8.30 p.m. in room 217. A meeting of the Health Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law on Specific Solutions to Improve the Quality and Availability of Healthcare Services, Senate Printing No 599, will be held tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 179.
ParlaMint-PL_2017-09-21-senat-47-1.u271	Okay, thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 58]]
