ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u44	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u45	Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, we are today invited to continue our constitutional session. The agenda shall be established for that sitting. This assembly is the representative body of Serbian citizens. In this congregation, just like everyone else in the world, everything goes according to one procedure. The procedure under which something is discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is called the Constitution, laws and Rules of Procedure and established agenda. Mr. President, you are now extending the agenda of the constitutional session, and you have no right to do so. Serbian Radical Party MPs have writtenly requested that the agenda of this session be extended to our specific requirements. I suppose it was your turn to tell us that we have no right to do so, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But that's why you don't have the right, Mr. President, to extend today's agenda to any part of the agenda, and especially to the agenda, which is called - the swearing of the President of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia should enter this door solemnly. This, however, is the most solemn act in one of the terms of the Members of Parliament to swear before them by the President of the Republic. To get into this room, he has to knock or, if he doesn't knock, you call him. And you call him on the agenda, Mr. President. What kind of oath is that you're serving us now, and it wasn't even on the agenda? Well, this isn't the law on fish farming in the aquarium, this is the laying of the sworn president of the Republic of Serbia. That's how you tell us he's not legally chosen, so he can't even take an oath. We have asked you in our demands, Mr. President, to allow us to point out a series of irregularities in the conduct of elections for the President of the Republic, especially in the second round of reelections. We have a bunch of evidence, Mr. President, that in this hall amongst the SPS MPs, especially those from Cosmet, there are people who have dared to break the Constitution and the laws, to carry out terror in Kosovo and Metohija, both towards Serbs and non-Serbs, and especially to members of the Serbian Radical Party, and especially to MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I wanted to discuss it today and call each of them by name and last name, Mr. President. I also wanted to ask Mr. former police minister who arrested and arrested the MPs on Sunday, December 21st and held them until 20.00 hours in custody at militia stations. I also wanted to ask the gentlemen from Peća, Pristina, from all election units and from all municipalities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija how they thought they would stay to live in Kosovo and Metohija, when they treat people like this, who only came to make sure that the elections were held regularly. Mr. President, as far as we're concerned, Serbian radicals, the legal treatment procedure isn't over, you know very well. The very secrecy of this oath act suggests that you yourself are fully aware that in one illegal way you choose an illegal president of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we do not want to participate and of course Milan Milutinovic will not be president of Serbia for the Serbian Radical Party, for our voters and all those who did not vote for him. And do you know how many of those who voted for him? You don't know. You only know how much you put in the boxes, which were full at 7:00 in the morning. I can't wait, former justice ministers, to bring proceedings against us, who beat those full boxes at 0700 hours in polling stations, to see what the law in the Republic of Serbia looks like. Mr. President, unfortunately, after seven years, you have returned us to the blackest and darkest period of communism in the Republic of Serbia. I ask you to read before the MPs our request for an extension of the agenda, to read your request for an extension of the agenda, to put it to the vote and to have the assembly majority decide. First, whether this session will be transferred to another program or to any RTS program. I have your word, Mr. President, I thought it still meant that all the sessions, except for the first one where you were elected, because that first one was held during the election campaign, would all be transferred directly. Let the people see the president of Serbia take an oath. Well, is there anything more beautiful for both the president of Serbia and that political option, which he suggested, than for Serbian citizens to see the elected president take an oath? On the other hand, we asked, Mr. President, to form a committee of inquiry. In this survey committee, no one has a majority, but that MPs, on their conscience, decide whether the evidence of the Serbian Radical Party is credible, is it true that you stole 285,000 votes in Kosovo and Metohija or not. To be established by the polling committee and to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make the appropriate decision. So, there are things to discuss before Mr. Milutinovic takes the oath. Those who wish to attend his oath, attend. Those who don't want to get out of this room. But this hall is one of the most solemn halls in the Republic of Serbia. The event, which you have prepared in secret for today, is one of the most solemn events. Let us Serbs get the president, all citizens of Serbia get the president, who will be proud and proud. Not to sneak into this door, not to have the police completely surround this building, occupy all the rooms in this building, and even one row, in which the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group is sitting, in order to allow Serbia's president to take an oath. Well, who's gonna stop Milan Milutinovic from taking an oath? We're trying here for this pay phone to stop him, and we're not going to fight with you anymore. You'll be fighting alone soon, first of all. Because you have ruined all that and come to an end, which we have long warned you of. Your end is here. There's a lot of you in these benches, but ask yourselves now what you deserve. How was the election campaign, how did you embarrass yourself in the election campaign, attacking three months a day, from hour to hour of one man? How could we still win 1,400,000 votes? Well, that's 2,500,000, and that's your 200,000, that's 500,000 or 600,000. With such a campaign, Fidel Castro has 99.9% of the votes. And everything below that is defeat. I wanted to talk to you about it, Mr. President. My conscience is still and pure. Let me just remind you, when Mr. Slobodan Milosevic took an oath in this assembly, that was January 28, 1993, I mean, that was the 3rd point of the agenda. It was foreseen as a item of the agenda, as it was normal for one who won the presidential elections to take an oath before MPs within the agenda. This time there is no agenda point, and there is swearing of Milan Milutinovic. There is no victory in the election, and there is a president of Serbia. You're bringing us into a century of debauchery. I'm just hoping that you'll get drunk with this theft to call new elections, finally kick your ass in those elections, and finally the SRS, the honest and honest people, will take over this country. I had so much to free my conscience. Serbian Radical Party MPs will wait for what you decide and wait with your decision.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u47	Thank you. I remind you that for the sake of taking the oath, the National Assembly has no other authority than to hear the President of the Republic swearing an oath before the National Assembly. Since the President of the Republic has been elected and is due to take office, and the first constitutional session of the National Assembly is under way, there is no legal disturbance for the President of the Republic to take an oath at the beginning of today's session. In addition, the National Assembly has had similar situations so far, so before the move to the agenda, it has confirmed the mandate of the MPs, determined the resignation of the seats of the MPs and determined the termination of the functions of individual members of the government. I ask the National Assembly to invite the president of the Republic of Serbia, Milan Milutinovic, to take an oath.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u48	I'd like to vote on our request to extend the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u49	Mr. Nikolic, you know very well that the enlargement of the agenda takes place before the beginning and prior to the establishment of the sitting agenda. Since this isn't the point of the agenda, because there's no need here to be a special point of the agenda. I've explained it now.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u50	Why didn't you let me know?
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u51	It means there's a communication error. I now apologize for not being notified. (Part of the Serbian Radical Party MPs left the hall. I call on the President of the Republic of Milan Milutinovic to take an oath before the Assembly. I ask Mr Milan Milutinovic, president of the Republic of Serbia, to take an oath before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u52	I swear to all my strengths to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to achieve human and civil freedoms and rights, to respect and defend the Constitution and the law, to preserve the peace and prosperity of all citizens of Serbia, and to carry out my duties safely and responsibly.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u53	Thank you. I ask Milan Milutinović, President of the Republic, to sign the text of the oath Allow me to congratulate the President of the Republic on your behalf and on my congratulation with the President of the Republic. [[Applause]] I ask the President of the Republic to take his word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u54	Dear Mr President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, acting as President of the Republic, I address you, confident that the time ahead will be marked by the development and progress of Serbia, with sincere conviction that this is an interest, a request and a need for all who live in Serbia and who wish it well. Development is our response to all the consequences of the time behind us and the need for the time to come. It is a comprehensive project of social renewal, based on reforms in the country, businesses, education, health care, information and culture and everything that makes up the framework and content of modern and democratic society. And more than that, it means restoring and affirming extreme values such as work, expertise, honesty, responsibility, solidarity, humanity, patriotism and national dignity. The basis of this development is our potential in agriculture, energy, traffic, tourism, industry and, above all, the educated young generation, the work and skills of our people. Development and reforms only make sense if they are human and just, and they will be so if the achievements in the economy, technology, health care, education, culture can benefit all or, at least, the largest number of citizens. We need prosperity that will mean more jobs, greater employment, more humane conditions of treatment, more effective education, increased care for children and old people and those who need the help of society. In short, a higher standard and a better life for everyone. The project of reconstruction and reform should be based on the standards of the world's most modern flows in science, technology, culture and politics. With lessons from these criteria, we will catch up with the developed world, engage in scientific, cultural, primarily economic integration processes in Europe and the world. In regulating basic social relations, with all respect for our specificities, there is no need for us to invent much, but we should use what has proved good, useful and effective in similar societies. Of course, this process is not possible if we do not take care of two basic conditions. The first life is in peace, freedom and independence and consolidation and affirmation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as states of equal citizens and republics of Serbia-Montenegro. The second condition is a gathering of all who can, know and want developed, stable and strong Serbia. We are rich in diversity and ethnic, religious, and party, or political. These differences can also be an advantage if everyone, independent of national belongings, religious feelings and party commitment, contributes to development and reform. A minimum of national programme and basic social values is also needed and possible agreement on behalf of a rich, developed and democratic Serbia -- a goal that I believe is wanted by a vast majority of our citizens and political parties. Only in this way can we provide Serbian citizens with greater security, standards and a better life. State authorities, national institutions and political parties must respect that will. Only in this way will we overcome the destruction, present in various forms, through the pressures of those who are not in the will of such Serbia, through crime and illegal behaviour, through various informative and cultural forms of destruction of national consciousness. Only in this way will we be able to discourage those who wish to harm our national interests, freedom and territorial integrity. With the obligation to contribute to this function, within the framework of my constitutional powers, I will do everything for the peaceful and coherent development of Serbia, with the desire to contribute to this Parliament, as the Supreme Legislative Authority and the Government of the People's Unity, with the belief that it will do so to all other relevant national institutions, with the appeal that all political parties, with the sincere belief that this is what the citizens of Serbia expect, I welcome you all and congratulate you on the New Year and the upcoming holidays, with the desire for the years ahead to mark Serbia's progress in the interest of all the people who live in it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u55	I suggest we move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You remember the three vice-presidents were elected at the last session, and the representative of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians said they would do so at the session's follow-up. They made a proposal today, so while we're waiting for this committee, I suggest we make this decision to elect the vice president of the assembly. Do you agree? Yeah. ) We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Please let us determine the quorum. Since there are 217 MPs present at the session, we have a quorum and we can make all the decisions. I suggest we get back to work. Right now, they're sharing a written proposal to elect the vice president of the National Assembly, and I'm going to read it to you. I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 18. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly came only one proposal for a vice president of the National Assembly, which gave rise to conditions for the National Assembly to carry out a procedure for selecting a vice president of the National Assembly at today’s session. You are now presented with a proposal from the Vice-President of the Assembly. As you have seen, the National Assembly Vice President was proposed by the MP Istvan Ispanovich. I remind you that according to Article 19(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall have the right to explain the proposal. Does the rapporteur want to explain the proposal for a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly? He wants to. There is a word from the People's Messenger Joseph Kasa.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u56	Dear President, honourable MPs, we said at the last session -- if certain conditions were to be met, and that was to start a fundamental conversation with Mr Milosevic, that we would make a proposal to complete the functions of the vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. These talks have been initiated, you have been informed from the press, we have thus assessed that in the Socialist Party of Serbia there are thoughts and efforts to solve the problems of the duchy Hungarians in due time and for these reasons we have proposed Mr. Išpanovich Istvan as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He is a graduate lawyer and I believe that he will perform this function qualityly, not only in the interest of the duchy Hungarians, but in the interest of all the national communities living in the Republic of Serbia and also in the common interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u57	Thank you. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs so that something not to be left unsaid, Mr. Kasa said at the last session that a parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians would propose its candidate for vice president after the talks they intend to hold with the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party. I am truly sorry and publicly regret why the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians did not turn to the Serbian Radical Party to talk, so that it does not turn out that we are reluctant or that it does not turn out that you did not say that to Mr Kasa, that you know about everything that is good or bad in Serbia, or that it is not only responsible, nor is the Socialist Party of Serbia responsible. I think you should have talked to us. You spoke to one half of the assembly. I don't know how much you believe the agreements you've made, if I were you, I wouldn't have been so easily accepted by all the promises you've received and just to tell you from here, publicly from the pay phone, we're at your disposal to discuss everything you're interested in. You talk to future authority when you talk to us.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u59	Thank you. He has the word of the People's Messenger Joseph Kasa.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u60	I really apologize to Mr. Tommy Nikolic, because he's right. We said we'd also talk to the Serbian Radical Party and we intend to continue to. I hope we can have that conversation after these holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u61	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. Allow me to agree to Article 19, paragraph 5. I set up a list of candidates for the National Assembly, where only one candidate is Istvan Ispanovic. I remind you that according to Article 20. The Rules of Procedure shall, before the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, decide whether to vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote known by the MPs to each candidate individually - by raising hands or by calling. Is there any proposal on how to vote for the election of vice-president of the National Assembly? I'd like someone to come out and suggest. You want me to do it for you? Since we've elected other vice presidents by public vote, I suggest we do it now. Who's up for it, raise your hand. - Great majority. Who's against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. ) I find that this proposal has been unanimously accepted. I would like to vote on the proposal of MP Joseph Kasa to elect Istvan Ispanovich as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for it, raise your hand. Everyone. Do you mind? No, there isn't. ) Has anyone abstained from voting? No, I don't. I find that the National Assembly has unanimously decided to elect Vice President Istvan Ispanovich. We move on to the 5th item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE WORK BODY'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Since the Committee's proposals are collected, they require a great deal of time for multiplication, about an hour now, I suggest that only the heads of Parliament get it, because everything is agreed, if you agree, so we can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u62	I've received a proposal from the board and there are things that are not in line with our agreement, so I'm asking you to take another look at it, because it's not just about printing mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u63	Is there any more objections? No, there isn't. ) There is no other way than before we start with the first regular session, if we agree in the break, which is a matter of a minute or two, to adopt the proposal then, so please make a correction in the meantime, that in five minutes to 15.00 hours, before the first session we finish this session and adopt the proposal. Do you agree? Yeah. I'm taking a break up to five minutes to 15 hours. I suggest we get back to work. I'd like professional services to determine if we have a quorum. 195 MPs in the O.R. are present. We have a quorum and we can work. I remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the National Assembly to educate committees. The National Assembly has 23 permanent committees, and the number of members of those committees has been established by the Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary groups shall propose members of the committee to a proportion of the number of MPs they have in the National Assembly (Art. 27, 45, 46 and 48. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you have been given a proposal for a list of members of the Committee, which is drawn up on the basis of individual proposals from parliamentary groups, which are educated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am opening a review of the proposal for a list of committee members and a proposal for a list of members of the Commission to apply the Law on specific conditions for the transport of immovable property. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Vice President Ispanovich.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u65	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I would only ask that you honor one correction - page 20. - The Agriculture Committee, there was a mistake. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians, instead of Joseph Kasa, we propose Michael Secei. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u66	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? He's not answering. I'm finishing the search. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, according to Article 28. The Rules of Procedure, on the proposed list for the selection of board members, shall decide in general, by public vote, and that the committees have been elected if the majority of the members present have voted in favour of the list. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on a proposal for a list for the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission for the application of the Law on Specific Conditions of Transport of immovableity. Who's up for this proposal? Everyone. Is anyone against it? Nobody. Is someone holding back? No, I don't. ) I find that the National Assembly has unanimously chosen the committees of the National Assembly and the Commission for the application of the Law on Special Conditions of Transport of immovableity. The committees will elect presidents at their special sessions during the constitution, on which the heads of the parliamentary groups agreed. I ask you to keep that in mind, and when we have the first chance, the committees will do so, if they can during the day. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: THE NAME OF THE SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY, Dear People's MPs, remind you that at the First Session, held on 3 December 1997, we appointed the Secretary of the National Assembly. From the remaining affairs of this session, we should appoint a deputy secretary of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly received one proposal from the deputy secretary of the National Assembly. Your proposal was made during the session. As you have seen, Nebojsa Rodic, the deputy secretary of the National Assembly, who was proposed by 29 MPs, was proposed to his signatures. I would like to remind you that according to Article 12(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur may explain the proposal. Does the rapporteur want to explain the candidate's proposal as deputy secretary of the National Assembly? He doesn't want to. ) Since we have received a proposal from the deputy secretary of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on this proposal. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. Let me set up a list of candidates for the deputy secretary of the National Assembly, where only one candidate is, and that is Nebojsa Rodic. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 13. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the appointment of the Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. (Glass from the O.R.: Publicly. ) I ask whoever suggests that he go out for a pay phone and suggest that he enter the stenogram. Since you're having a hard time, let me suggest. I suggest that the vote be public. Who's up for it? Most of it. Who's against it? One voice. Is anyone restrained? No, it's not. ) Since the National Assembly has decided to appoint the deputy secretary of the National Assembly by a public vote, I would like to put forward a proposal to appoint Nebojsa Rodic as deputy secretary of the National Assembly. Who's in? (133) Who's against it? (68) Who is abstentioned? Three. I find that the National Assembly has named most of the votes the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. With this, we exhausted the agenda of the constitutional session of the National Assembly. (Tomislav Nikolic: Mr. President, you are using wicked things. Why? (Tomislav Nikolic: The system is not running automatically. We voted against us, he's 76. I don't trust this count. ) Please, 68 is numbered. (Tomislav Nikolic: Why doesn't the system work? Not that it doesn't work, but not all MPs got cards. (Tomislav Nikolic: Replace Secretary of Skuština. ) I've received notice that not everyone has received, please. But 133 MPs voted yes, Mr. Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic: When you can't count mine, how can I believe this? It doesn't make sense, President. )
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u67	Please, there's more.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u68	Mr. Todorovic, would you be so kind as to sit down, when you have the presidency, you will have the right. Please, here, we're assigning the secretary to see what's wrong with the cards, so all MPs get the cards. (Dragan Todorovic: Recounting.) Don't, Mr. Todorovic, it doesn't change things. We'll work with electronic cards as soon as all MPs get them. (Tomislav Nikolic: Why aren't temporary cards issued? They can also be temporarily betrayed. (Tomislav Nikolic: But they do not give them service, they are commanded not to give. ) Everyone is ordered to get their cards, please. How many MPs don't have a card, can he raise his hand? It's a big number. ) Please, you have seen that a large number of MPs do not have a card. I have now been informed by the secretary that it is scheduled to meet with the application and use of the cards. Two parliamentary groups have not responded, have not come to the Assembly, it is a group of SPS MPs and the SPS parliamentary group. Please, MPs can come and can't come, that's their right. It is ours to organise it and it was ours to allow the MPs to receive the cards. (Tomislav Nikolic: Is there any other reason, Mr. President? No, Mr. Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic: Isn't it that you can't see how to vote? No, Mr. Nikolic, it's much easier with the cards. When everyone gets it, we'll give you a card. (Tomislav Nikolic: Here, I don't need your card. It's not mine, it's official. (Tomislav Nikolic: It is yours, it is yours, it is yours. And after the election, the MPs don't have the cards and you convince me it's the right thing to do. Mr. Nikolic, you heard that the secretary informed me that they were invited, and they did not come. The session's over. (The session is closed at 3:20 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u69	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Stenografical Note first session of the Second Regular Session on 29 December 1997 (The session began at 15.25 p.m. The chairman is Dragan Tomic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. )
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u70	We move to the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1997, called for December 29th. I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1997. According to official records, 195 MPs attend today's session. Since the quorum for the work of the National Assembly cannot be determined by the application of the electronic voting system because all MPs are not trained to use it, the quorum will be determined by counting the MPs, so I ask the Service to count the MPs. There are 233 MPs in the hall. ( Dragoljub Stamenkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Let me tell you, how do you know what this is about, if you don't let me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u71	Mr. President, I have my doubts about the number of MPs present here, and I demand that the quorum be determined either by the denomination of the Members present or by the application of the electronic system available here. The fact that someone wasn't in training, that there were 20 more times, they wouldn't learn. And I can't believe those who counted the votes in Kosovo, those who stole from us. Either we determine how the Rules of Procedure has been established or by public appeal. That's the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that's how we apply the system.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u72	Mr. Stamenkovic, 233 MPs. What are you arguing about? Are you saying there's more or less? Mr. Stamenkovic, you heard the reasons, I have no intention of repeating them. So we can't do anything else. I find that the count of MPs has established that 233 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the Assembly. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend this session by the President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would like to inform you that the MP of Life Cvetkovic proposed that the National Assembly decide to extend the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to 24.00 hours, or until the end of the Second Regular Session. That proposal was sent to you before the start of the session. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u73	I was going to say that none of us got a call, no agenda, no material for this congregation. We are not prepared for this congregation. Since important issues should be considered, such as the draft budget law, why we are not prepared. I would like to ask a clear question before the debate begins on the subject, which is why it insists on the adoption of a budget law on speed, a team before the government of the Republic of Serbia, which will soon not be. In other words, it predetermins what a budget is going to look like to be done by another government, and I don't think it's serious or responsible for people who need to do it. So I think we should seriously consider whether this agenda should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u74	Please, the MPs got the material when they checked in here today. The material could not be sent because the budget law was proposed by emergency procedure and did not want the congregation service to risk sending the materials by mail without receiving them. So, please, today all the materials are shared. After all, the Assembly will decide on the establishment of the agenda. So it's just now under discussion. I would like to vote on the proposal by MP of the People's Parliament of Life of Cvetkovic to extend today's work to 24 hours. Who's in? (131) Who's against it? Three. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. ) I find that the proposal has been accepted by most votes. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. Proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the 1998 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 1997. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998. Who's up for this proposal? (144 ) Is anyone against it? (78) Is anyone abstaining? Nobody. ) I find that the National Assembly (mostly votes) has accepted the proposal to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft decision on the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija's 1998 budget, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 1997, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting on the vote by the government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft decision on the Kosovo Autonomous Region and Metohija's 1998 budget. Who's up for this proposal? (148) Does anyone object? (80) Is anyone abstaining? Nobody. ) I find that the National Assembly (mostly votes) has accepted the proposal to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the Kosovo and Metohija Autonomous Region's 1998 budget. 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the use of the agrarian budget, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 1997, be considered as an emergency procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the use of the funds of the agrarian budget. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? (140) Is anyone against it? (79) Has anyone abstained from voting? No, it's not. ) I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, accepted the urgent procedure to consider the draft law on the use of agrarian budget funds. 4. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the draft law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 1997, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? (146) Is anyone against it? (82) Has anyone abstained from voting? No, it's not. ) I find that the National Assembly accepted by majority the proposal to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998. 5. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise and Sales Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 1997, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises and Transport Taxes. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? (141) Is anyone against it? (76) Has anyone abstained from voting? No, it's not. ) I find that the National Assembly has accepted, by majority, the proposal to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and Taxes on Transport. Six. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Income Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 1997, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? (140) Is anyone against it? (76) Has anyone abstained from voting? No, it's not. ) I find that the National Assembly has accepted, by majority, the proposal to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens. Seven. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Law on a special republican taxi to tobacco processing and alcoholic beverages, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 1997, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on a special republican taxi for tobacco processing and alcoholic beverages. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? (146) Is anyone against it? (81) Has anyone abstained from voting? - One MP. ) I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, accepted the proposal to consider, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on a special republican taxi for tobacco processing and alcoholic beverages. 8. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Social Insurance Contributions Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on December 26, 1997, should be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Social Insurance Contributions. Who's up for this proposal? (141) Is anyone against it? (80) Is anyone abstaining? One. ) I find that the National Assembly has accepted by majority the proposal to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Social Insurance Contributions. Nine. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a Radio-Television Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 1997. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a radio-TV law. Who's up for this proposal? (81) Is anyone against it? (95) Is anyone abstaining? (30) I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law on radio television. We're moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. 1. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 24 December 1997, with a proposal to include it in the agenda of the first next session, which means on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly. On this occasion, I remind you that, according to Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the agenda of the National Assembly, may include an act within 15 days of its submission. As the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group was tabled on 24 December 1997, I note that there were no conditions for this proposal to be included in the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1997. 2. Serbian Radical Party MP and MP Igor Mirovic tabled similar proposals to include a decision on the direct transfer of the National Assembly of Serbia's session to the Serbian Radio-Television programme. Since those proposals for the extension of the agenda have not been adopted in accordance with Article 132. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. they did not submit in the form of a proposal for an act that the National Assembly could decide, have not obtained the conditions for the session agenda to be extended with this item of the agenda. The word has Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group and individual MPs individually submitted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, requests for an extension of the agenda. Mr. President, we haven't submitted any draft laws. You are referring to this article under which the bill must comply with some of the conditions set by the Rules of Procedure, we have made proposals for decisions and of course you cannot now classify these decisions by simple voting in the basis you are looking for for a draft law. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group asked to honour the word given by Dragan Tomic, Tomislav Nikolic, Milovan Bojic and Milan Mikovic, that all sessions would be transferred, that each session would be transmitted directly to Serbia's Radio-Television. The four of us, who are the most responsible for 240 MPs in this assembly, have given our word to the MPs and to the public that the sessions will be transferred. Please make a statement, Mr. President, whether you're the given word or not. You know very well that the Serbian Radical Party MP group immediately agreed that the session that fell during the campaign is not being broadcast on television. We don't really need television anymore. The people know everything about us, and this TV that lies, spits, the Serbian Radical Party doesn't need it. That is why we have submitted a proposal for a radio-television law to form a new board of directors, a new supervisory board, to elect a new Director-General, that no one has a majority in this board of directors, but to make a majority in relation to the decisions proposed. Maybe this session serves to get the bear out of the hole and it's not bad enough, so let's see who's gonna be with who in the future. I don't have the right to interfere with anyone who votes together and who runs the common policy with whom. But I only ask MPs who now think they feel something, and these are opposition people, to know who's pulling their butts with the Socialists. It's a folk proverb that I convey to you in the original sense. A lot of you wouldn't understand. So we made a proposal, Mr. Tomic, to just implement what we all agreed in this assembly. On the other hand, we have submitted a proposal to form a survey committee to determine whether there have been thefts in polling stations, in election units, or not. So why are you running away from it? Nikola Pasic himself, whenever a problem was raised, approved the opposition's establishment of a polling committee. He says, "Give them a survey committee right away, a democratic form is being satisfied, and the polling board can work in an endless manner." But you're so scared of these thefts being discovered, you're not even ready to approve that the survey board is forming. Why shouldn't a survey committee be formed? Why don't we determine whether there was a voice theft or not? Why should the President of the Republic come in here like he's ashamed of something... He's ashamed, Mr. Angelkovic, of the thefts you've done to make him president of Serbia. Why did you decide that 8 laws, which represent the country's economic policy for next year, would be passed in half an hour, that within an hour of reviewing the material, MPs would raise their hands for these laws. Why have you made a decision that the government, which has already left, has passed so many laws that will be regulated in the year 98? Why don't we have a parliament or a government three months after the election? Why is this Serbia sinking deeper and deeper? Just because you're in power. Just because individuals think that as MPs, they can pull something else out of their pocket. Why are you running this country like this? One day you'll have to say. Gentlemen, thefts don't stick to power anymore. No way. The thefts delay the solution to the problem. Why did Radio-Television become the state institution everyone spits on? Why? She was better during Milorad Vukelic, Mr. Vico. Better during a man like that, she was better than she was today. Mr. Tomic, this session, so maybe in May you'll call us, I know you very well, this session will serve to bring out a lot of what we've been through during this election campaign. A lot of things you socialists are ashamed of. A lot of things you've been forced to apply, and you'd never do in your life. Of course, there are other MPs here who are ashamed of what they are doing. After all, indeed, you've put together water and acid, but you've poured water into the acid and made one explosive mass that has to burst within three months. I guarantee you that, as I guarantee you, most will be alive in three months. So, Mr. President, don't reject these suggestions. We do not want to obstruct the work of parliament. We want to discuss what's important. We want to help bring the budget. It's not my fault, Mr. President, that the government gave you the material for the session on the last day of the regular session. That's what you ask the government, but don't steal time from MPs, the time they have to talk about, just because you don't have a government capable of choosing an even more incompetent government than this one. You can't find a better government. If these people were the best, how are you going to find a better one now? As you have suggested Milan Milutinovic as president, and it is not the best for you, in the first ten people in the party, so that Serbia believes you that someone who is not in the top ten in the SPS can be president of Serbia. Neither is the party president, nor is he vice president, nor is one of the vice presidents, the secretary general and is not the head of the parliamentary club in any assembly. A man who is not at the top of his party cannot be president of Serbia. So, Mr. President, please allow us to explain the requirements. Don't hurt the Rules of Procedure. It is not true that the requests have not been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. They're completely filed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You are obliged by article 89 to give us 5 minutes to explain the proposals, to give 5 minutes to whoever the proposal refers to to to respond to the reasoned proposal and to put it to the vote. We didn't go to Kosovo and Metohija much. Only 70, who have something to say about these choices. Many were busy in Belgrade on the election commission, but they have something to tell you too. You can listen to that nice, calmly, and then you'll make a budget. You can also choose the government up to 24 hours by emergency procedure. Just suggest Tomic and choose the government. We won't bother you. But what's our right -- we're asking to be made possible. It is our right to propose that the agenda be extended. We use it, Mr. President, and you have to make it happen.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u76	Please, don't make a mistake. It's true what you said about television broadcasts, and it's true that we made a deal. However, if the proposal is formulated in terms of the act, as assessed by the professional service, then it is not well formulated, it is not well done. Last time, that's exactly what you said. This is made by the working conclusion of the Assembly and there is no need to give it in the form of an act. If given in the form of an act, then it must be published in the Official Journal, for eight days, and only after that to be explained. That's right, Mr. Nikolic. So if you had proposed as a working conclusion, the congregation would have already declared itself and you wouldn't have to explain it this much. Therefore, you proposed in the form of an act. You've made a mistake. If you had proposed in the form of a working conclusion, the Assembly could already have made its statement. Remember how the transmission was cut, Mr. Nikolic. The transfer decision was also made. I don't know if you were there in '91 and '92, but I saw it in a stenogram. Mihajlo Kovac suggested that direct transfers be introduced in the Assembly, the Assembly decided and a television broadcast was introduced. No acts. (Stevo Dragisic, from the post: Please put on a vote for advertising on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The Rules of Procedure have not been harmed, please, sir, sit down, we are establishing the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u77	That's what this is about, here's the article. 99. "The MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure... The president of the National Assembly gives him his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." You gave your word to Mr. Nikolic. "The MP is obliged to state which regulation of the Rules of Procedure is, in his opinion, injured, that it quotes and explains what the injury consists of, with the ability to speak for a maximum of three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote." A member of 88 was injured and Mr Nikolic spoke of it. Then, "the president of the National Assembly is obliged to post-explanation" what you just did. "If even after an explanation by the National Assembly President, the MP remains that the Rules of Procedure have injured the President of the National Assembly, calling on the National Assembly to decide on this issue without being searched." That's what you left out. So, you are required to put the vote on whether the Rules of Procedure in Rule 88 is injured when you said MPs can't ask for an extension of the agenda at the sitting itself, because Article 88 says it is delivered in writing, no later than the beginning of the session, which is done in this case, it is handed over to the office all during today's day. So that provision is respected. You're denying us that right. We're advertising that you're right to deny us. You are required to put the vote to the vote, to see what the new majority together will say about this issue, whether the SPO will vote with you this time, or whether it will really vote according to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u78	Mr. Dragisic, you've read well, but Mr. Nikolic should have asked to vote. We won't formally.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u79	Mr. Nikolic said he was injured by the Rules of Procedure. You're required to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u80	Mr. Dragisic, are you now representing Mr. Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u81	No, I'm advertising another breach of the Rules of Procedure now. (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: Mr. President, I have proposed a decision, not a law. )
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u82	Mr. Tomo, Igor Mirovic has proposed a agenda. (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: Mr. President, I asked that the agenda be extended by making a decision on the direct transfer of the session. It's not the law, it's just one decision. I told you. We discussed Igor Mirovic's proposal, not your proposal. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure for that. (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: How am I supposed to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure over Igor Mirovic's demands? ( b) On what grounds have you raklammed? (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: On the occasion of the request I signed, President. So where is this request of yours? (Tomislav Nikolic from the scene: to ask ourselves that question. I have eight such demands. It's okay. And you filed a request, right. Do you insist on making a statement to the Rules of Procedure's Hurt Assembly or do you want to vote on the introduction of a direct television broadcast? You have to explain it to me to the end. What's to vote on? (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: To vote on my proposal to make a decision on the introduction of a TV broadcast. ) It means that television broadcasts are being introduced. Okay. There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I've been mentioned here, so for these reasons, I already have the right to reply, and it is clear that we still need to clear this up today. Please, it's true that the transfers were lifted based on the fact that one SPS MP came out and said they were being removed. It was a vote and the transmissions were shut down. Whether that's the conclusion, whether it's a decision, whether it's something else, it doesn't matter. At this point, regardless of the written proposals, which have been sent to you, given what we've been talking about, given everything that's happened, I, on behalf of the parliamentary group, suggest that a conclusion be made that direct television broadcasts be introduced immediately. Whether or not I support someone, it's irrelevant. The point is important. That's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about, that's what we've all decided that's how it's supposed to be, and I think that's what we need to say here. There's no reason why she couldn't look at the public, what we do or how we do, no matter if someone makes us look at each other at some point, and the other moment, they hit us. We must, as MPs, act like one. And just one more thing to explain, however, - we voted against the urgent procedure of passing a radio-television law, but we are not against the adoption of a radio-television law and the implementation of important changes in that law and ensuring the freedom of the media in Serbia. So we just said -- not this urgent, not this fast, but effective. So we stand at the point where at the first session of this National Assembly, that question is on the agenda, and that we, as we get everything else in time, look at it, get to know everything in the text and then decide. Third thing, you put in a motion for a decision on the education of the committee of inquiry. So I don't show up here again - nothing's so sacred that there's no doubt. For these reasons, we support, in principle, the proposal to educate the committee of inquiry, in the formulation that is given here. There are things that are too tight, there are things that are not acceptable as they are set up. They are not acceptable, as polling committees are also proposed to be attended by MPs from some parliamentary groups, and they are not intended for MPs from other parliamentary groups to participate. I don't think that's right and it's only about one question, and that's a question -- were there any irregularities in the work of the Republic Election Commission in conducting a second round of re-elections? It is a far broader topic, far more should there be questions that need to be cleared, in the interest of all of us, in the interests of the country, to determine what is true, what is not true, but not in one circle, in one place and in one organ, such as the Republic Election Commission. That's why we had this attitude right now, with which we appeared in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u84	Thank you. He has the word Gorica Gajevic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u85	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the Parliament, the public of the work of the Assembly is not disputed, it is a disputed proposal, or form - is it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that the Assembly should plead? As for the polling committee, the Socialist Party of Serbia, or its parliamentary club, believes there are neither constitutional, nor legal, nor business conditions, that this is on the agenda. The electoral process, the participants, the authorities, their jurisdiction, all phases, are precisely and clearly regulated by law. That's why there's no room for a polling committee.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u86	There's a word from MP Nenad Canak, head of a newly formed parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u87	Dear gentlemen, ladies, I'd have to draw your attention to a little thing - when it comes to television, if once it's decided from this pay phone, it could be lifted, then the proposal can be returned from this pay phone. For that reason, those who have introduced this rule here must now bear these conjunctivities. If one proposal could be abolished, one proposal can return. That's the first thing. I propose that we now vote on the immediate establishment of direct television broadcasts of assembly sessions. That's the first thing. (Glass from the O.R.: TV is not ready). TV's always ready, only when it's waved, it'll come. Another thing, about this committee of inquiry. First of all, I think it's necessary to stop stealing and robbing by election. Here are the people who fought theft and robbery in the 1996 elections, and this time there was again an obvious indication that there was a theft and robbery, so the polling committee has to be made. Because if we don't fight theft and robbery, no matter who's been stolen and robbed, we're not fighting for principle but for winning one or the other, and that's so unprincipled, we'll never get this country into any order. That's why I suggest that the parliamentary club of democratic parties, whose boss I am, be the bearer of this project, because we hate you equally, so we'll be objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Yugoslav Left MPs' club advocates that an agreement on the direct transfer of the session of the Assembly is also being reached. We're not giving up that request, even if it's not formally legal, we can make it a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u89	Since we have a proposal from the Serbian Radical Party and MP Igor Mirovic's parliamentary club and since it is a proposal for a decision, and it is not an act. I think that's a way to rephrase, Mr. Nikolic. I am putting to the vote the proposal of Serbian Radical Party MP and MP Igor Mirovic to introduce direct television transmissions of the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the RTS programme. Who's gonna raise a hand for that? (178, who's against it? (No one), who's restrained? Nobody. ) I find that the National Assembly decided by majority to introduce direct television broadcasts of the National Assembly session on the RTS programme. (Glasses: Pause. ) Please, the TV of Serbia will, as soon as it gets this decision, introduce a direct television transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u90	I now propose that we make a decision to apply this decision immediately and be published in the Official Messenger when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u91	Mr. Nikolic, it's not coming out.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u92	Mr. President, you just said it was coming out.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u93	I said - only if it's brought in in the form of an act.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u94	One more thing, Mr. President. If the CK could be transmitted directly all night, when you were there celebrating, looking forward and opening champagne, then there can be a direct television broadcast here right now, and we'll take a little break, wait for you to turn on the cameras.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u95	I'm taking a 15-minute break. [[Pause.]] [[After a break.]] I suggest we continue our work, and the Serbian Radio Television has informed me that it will introduce television transparency around 8:30 a.m.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, anything can be done in the Assembly, but most of it. We voted for a transfer. The president can't continue the session with his decision unless there's a majority in this room. I ask you, Mr. President, to put your proposal, just like mine, just like any MP in this room, to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u98	Of course, Mr. Nikolic, that's what I wanted. Do you agree to continue your work? Who's in? (110) Who's against it? (76 ) Who's restrained? Nobody. ) I find that the proposal has been accepted. Please, 110+76=186. I would like to inform you that I have received one number of proposals from the MPs to extend the agenda of this session by considering irregularities in the conduct of the second round of re-election for the President of the Republic of Serbia and by deciding on the education of the polling committee whose task it would be to determine whether there were irregularities in the work of the Republic Election Commission in the conduct of the second round of re-election for the President of the Republic of Serbia, held on 21 December 1997. In accordance with Article 133(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that none of these proposals for the extension of the agenda have been prepared in accordance with Article 132. The Rules of Procedure, i.e. it is not submitted in the form of an act the National Assembly may decide on, so it cannot be included in the agenda of this session. The MP advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u99	Brothers of Serbs, Serbian sisters and others of faith, I am one of the proposers of supplementing the agenda and it is not true that I have proposed by Article 138 or who has already quoted Mr. President, I have proposed the addition of the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure provided for in Article 88, on time and in writing, as the Rules of Procedure alone states. I see no reason to disqualify such a situation. For respecting each decision and attitude of the Assembly, it is up to the Assembly to open a debate on both the smallest social problems and people's issues and to make the Assembly known. If necessary, I will show the Rules of Procedure and read Article 88, and that is what you can do, Mr. President, right now. Gentlemen, you can do the same. However, if this is a situation such as electoral irregularities, the massity of the phenomenon that has become so limited to criminal acts, it has annulled the country's electoral law, criminal law, the country's constitution. I really don't see the possibility that until these questions are discussed, or I'm going to lie to these claims, that we can do anything and anything else to discuss. The fact is that when it comes to electoral irregularities, my six-page written proposal refers predominantly to criminal acts committed by the state electoral commission, called the Republic Election Commission, and by the police as state authorities. That is why, since the state itself is involved, basic structures of government have been buried. As a citizen of this country, as a Serb of this country, as a man, as a representative of the people of this place, I want to believe that our examples of electoral thefts were presented to the public, were presented to the new president of Serbia himself, perhaps and I want to believe that he himself would refuse and say, "I don't want to be president of the stolen results."
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u100	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u102	Are you insisting on hurting the Messenger's vote or not?
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u103	I insist that according to the Rules of Procedure, the agenda point is placed, you have taken as a summary point, I have only recognised my proposal and so responded. Please be precise, which all the suggestions exist, to read their content, to recognize in this section my proposal, and then according to the Rules of Procedure, by Article 89, to come out and explain the proposal to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u104	You advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u105	We're not gonna hide behind a formality. This is where we're expected to open up fundamental debates...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u106	Please, we can't open a fundamental debate without the agenda. You suggest we get into the agenda. I told you why he couldn't. You're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you insist on making it known to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u107	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u108	Be kind and sit down and let the congregation plead.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u109	Thank you very much. I reserve the right...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u110	The Assembly's decision is metric. If he finds out it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. If it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't argue with the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u111	Mr. President, I'm not in the middle with the Parliament, I'm in the middle of the business with you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u112	You've already timed out. You have the right to speak for three minutes, and you've been talking for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u113	Thank you very much for your patience. Thank you very much to the entire Assembly for your patience, but I hope, Mr. President, that some strict formalism and especially a violation of the Rules of Procedure on Labour will not put MPs in a position to accept on their conscience what is called - the undermining of the foundation of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u114	Thank you. The MP insists that on the matter in which most of your proposals are covered, (can't be individually) more proposals are rejected, if this proposal is declared by the Assembly that the injured Rules of Procedure are then we will vote on it. If it doesn't come out that it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then we won't plead it out. It's a procedure. Does the congregation agree that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed on this matter?
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u115	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me for half a minute of patience.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u116	Please be nice, sit down. We understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u117	I'd just beg for your explanation why you can't get into the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u118	I read it to you. The assembly has to decide that.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u119	Be kind, bring in an explanation with the Rules of Procedure through a specific member of the Rules of Procedure, that at least we know which member has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u120	Whoever agrees with the violation of the Rules of Procedure in this case, raise your hand, in all these cases that have been given, please raise your hand. [[Employees raise their hands.]] Who's against it? (106), has anyone abstained from voting? Nobody. ) Therefore, the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u121	This is terror. I have to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u122	Maybe I'm wrong. That's what the Parliament decides.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u123	You know there's a terror of minorities and terror of the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u124	This isn't about terror at all. A hundred six MPs are against it. The proposal was rejected. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, what do you want to talk about? Fifty percent of the cases are covered by this text.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u125	That's what I'm gonna tell you here. First, Mr. President, before the break, I was behind this pay phone and made two proposals to expand the agenda. You made a statement about one thing, so you played it. You didn't even ask the Assembly to come forward. The second proposal was the formation of a survey board. Now you've allowed the other MP to come out. Of course, he has the right to come out and explain his proposal to expand the agenda. But we haven't solved my proposal to expand the agenda. Furthermore, you say some requests for an extension of the agenda have been rejected. Based on what, Mr. President? You say they don't comply with Article 132. I say they're fully in line with Article 88. The member asks for nothing more than to submit a proposal to expand the agenda in writing by the beginning of the session. The assembly should decide whether it will enter the agenda or not. You can't, professional service can't be a judge of what's going to be on the agenda. Only this congregation can decide. In order for the congregation to decide, he must get a chance to do so. Mr. President, you are not giving the Assembly the opportunity to plead on proposals to expand the agenda. The proposals are based on the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to Article 88, each authorised legislator shall have the right to request an extension of the agenda, to remove some items of the agenda from the agenda, to replace the order of each item on the agenda. It's the procedure by which this assembly works. According to Article 89, the proposer for the extension of the agenda or the revision of the agenda has the right to explain what he wanted and why he wants to change the agenda, and it can take five minutes. According to Article 90, each proposal is specifically discussed. No compressions of the proposal, no assembling of the proposal. They're not the same suggestions. Each applies to another polling post or to another constituency. Let me remind you, Mr. President, you are denying us a fundamental right based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 73 of point 11 says the National Assembly is in control of the work of the Government and other bodies and officials responsible for the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution and law. You do not allow us here to exercise control over the work of the Republic Election Commission, you do not allow us here to control the work of the authorities involved in the election process in Kosovo and Metohija, in the work of the judicial authorities. Almost all members of the Republic Election Commission, appointed by this assembly, were judges. Also, you won't let us exercise control of police work. You know very well that under the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and accordingly applied to the election of the President of the Republic, the police have nothing to look for in the polling post. Only if there is a breach of order and peace at the polling station is it called upon the police to intervene. At 7 o'clock, however, we are on our way to polling stations, and armed troops are waiting for us everywhere. You know what it was about. MPs were immediately taken to the police station and released at 20.00 hours. You know we have two seriously injured election controllers. You know we've been stopped by reason of an attack by a terrorist organization in the village. What terrorist organisation when 40% of Kosovo and Metohija vote for the SPS?- I'm sorry. What kind of terrorist organization develops when 40% of people are for the SPS? Then my Kragujevac should burn everything when it's only 20% for the SPS! We were told that floods were in the village and that no member of the Serbian Radical Party could pass up to 8 hours. When we get to the polling station, the boxes are full, the Shipari are surrounded. They told us they came in at night to vote, that the other Shiplars didn't see them voting for the SPS. And now you want to stop it from being discussed here. You have the President of the Republic. No one can change him anymore. He's been incorrigible for five years. Only if he doesn't realize what kind of banditism he came to power, so, man, he can't resign. There's no other way. The two-thirds majority in this assembly, which would call a referendum on recalling the President of the Republic, does not exist. That referendum wouldn't work either. There are no more 50% of Serbian citizens who would define themselves for one thing. You are now preventing us here in the Assembly from doing what our business is. You care about adopting a budget, having a debate on all eight points at once, being four amendments, television not to come and split up, Mr. President, and tonight an extraordinary session begins, and no one else without the government can schedule it. We want to discuss it because we're not people who would fight you in the streets. If we wanted to fight, Serbia would be in a fire, Milan Milutinovic would not be president. Well, we don't like power enough to cause a fire in Serbia to keep you from stealing. I am only warning the messengers and the judges who are involved in this - one day the power will change, the new, the upright, the people will come, who will determine how much someone has stolen. And then, you know how nice it is to do it. Whoever steals an egg at the market and takes it to a hungry kid, you put him in jail for 60 days. Let's see who it is that steals the human sanctity, one vote in the elections, whether it can go unpunished, see the fellows of the Socialist Party of Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija, when the power changes, when it turns out there are no more gods in Serbia, that there are no more people who can call the police to beat people at their moment, to see how the situation will then be in Serbia. In order to get to something worth it in Serbia, we need to determine whether the elections have been made in accordance with the law or not. Why are you running away from the congregation to determine whether the elections have been made in accordance with the law? Why are you running away from the Assembly to determine whether the president of Serbia is elected or not? Mr. President, I ask that votes be voted on on my proposal and the agenda be extended to the point: the formation of the polling committee. I agree with the proposal that I have heard, that these two parliamentary groups that were not scheduled to give one member of the committee of inquiry. We don't need that at all.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u126	Please, just let me ask you a question. You have a proposal to form a survey board. You have a proposal (58) to examine irregularities. Does the proposal to form a survey committee replace all these 58 demands? Explain that, for practical reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u127	Here, Mr. President, it's very easy and simple. I'm looking for the formation of a survey board based on the data I have. You can say no. Then another MP will come out who will seek the formation of a survey board based on the data he has. Maybe you'll say no to that, too. Then there will be a third, then a fourth, all of our MPs who have information that there has been an election theft. They'll seek the formation of a survey board. If you decide to form a polling committee right now, then, of course, there will be groundless other discussions of our MPs, because they fit into the decision to form a survey board.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u128	You heard the explanation. Under the Constitution, the only competent authority for the determination and procedure and election results is the Republic Election Commission. There's a Supreme Court next to her. There are no constitutionally foreseen committees, or any other commission. Please, it depends on what it is about (repeated to one of the MPs). It is true that there is an institution of the committee of inquiry. Please, Mr. Todorovic, let's not have a dialogue. I was informed by the electoral commission in a second procedure that she made the final decision. Therefore, you can ask to expand the agenda, since almost identical content is found. We have suggested that we discuss it or not to consider it. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u129	Please, Mr. President, don't confuse the MPs of the National Assembly. I didn't ask the Bureau to determine the results of the election. However, the electoral commission has not yet determined the final results of the election. There is a complaint before Serbia's Supreme Court. There is a complaint before the Supreme Court of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. You forget that in the election procedure in Montenegro for the election of the President of the Republic, the Supreme Court of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia announced as competent. The election procedure is not complete. Now you cut it off by a single decision by the assembly majority that Milan Milutinovic, a candidate for Serbia's president, took an oath as president of Serbia. This on your honor and your cheek, and that your children remember who attended this session when the man who was not elected president took an oath to be president of Serbia. I'm not asking the survey board to determine who won the election because he can't do it. But -- it can determine whether there were irregularities in the work of the state authorities. It is the function of this assembly - to control government and state authorities and especially bodies that correspond to the National Assembly for their work. It's the election commission because it's been elected to the National Assembly. Mr. President, it's all clear. Nothing here is blurry and nothing is unclear. It's only important to vote. We'll vote for the committee of inquiry. The others will vote against it. Any more, that decision will be made. Do not reconsider the Parliament's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u130	Here you go, Mr. Todorovic. He's advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would first and foremost use the SPS. The president's been elected and that thing is over. But you have to take it off or clear that you robbed this election and that chance is very simple. That this poll committee is formed and that it examines all the allegations that we rightly suspect -- all the polling stations, all the abuses, that in these elections, a huge theft was committed. First of all, it's your interest to get to the truth. You need to wash off that scar. This way, you will remain your accomplices, or confirm this robbery that was committed in the polling stations. And the robbery that was committed in the polling stations was not enough, but had to be done additionally in the republican electoral commissions because it was not possible with the robbery to cross the 50% censorship. Gentlemen, there is inconclusive evidence. You can declare, as Radovan Bozovic said, and that the country is fourth, and it is not controversial, but you must take responsibility for being an accomplice. That you chose a president today who cited in his campaign as one of the main points - the fight against crime. He'd have to go first...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u132	Mr. Todorovic, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't give us a speech.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u133	That is why you should allow the survey committee to be formed. Believe me, you have so much inconclusive evidence. One small shot, on this tape, on the table, would be enough to convince you that our data is authentic. Here, your MP, Mr. Vlahovic, is on that tape. It is on video from December 7th and December 21st. The video also includes MP Miroslav Dramlic, who discovered the big robbery, filmed it all with a video camera. Can you go through such evidence? Is tomorrow you should go to your homes, that the children, the locals, ask you how it is possible for thieves to be allowed to rule them out? It's something that's anti-civilization. I know there are a number of honest people among you. It's undeniable. Do you have to put up with the terror of those who stole from this election? Do you have to put up with it, if the judicial authorities are involved, isn't it the President of the Assembly that you were arrested about 11 MPs on December 21st, that they were released after 8 o'clock...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u134	Mr. Todorovic, time's up, be kind...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u135	Mr. President, let me just point you to irregularities...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u136	Don't argue. You've suggested an addition to the agenda, so let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u137	When we put all this aside, there's something Mr. President that you're directly responsible for. You are violating the Rules of Procedure by not doing the thing that you should do after the break, or here before the two parliamentary groups paused, as far as I know, and about direct TV transmissions -- that they don't mind, that one such polling committee is formed because someone is in the interest of finally getting to the truth in this country. There's no harder theft than an election theft.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u138	Mr. Todorovic, would you be so kind as to speak for five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u139	Here, Mr. President, I hope that you will first declare my proposal, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, before the break that you will respect the statements of the two presidents of the parliamentary groups and that we will vote on this proposal and that you will allow all those who have submitted the request to the Rules of Procedure to allow them to make that request and explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u140	Mr. Todorovic, I will only allow the vote to be made on Mr. Nikolic's request, and this has already been declared by the Assembly and said there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure in this case. Therefore, please, we know this, it is an existing practice (receives to an MP who advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure). Please, Mr Tomislav Nikolic has suggested that the polling committee be formed, i.e. to extend the agenda point. agenda of the agenda session - Decision on the education of the survey board. Please, I'm putting the motion to the vote. Who's in, let him raise his hand? (113) Who is against it? (104) Who is abstentioned? One. ) I find that the National Assembly has made a decision to set up a survey committee.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u141	The National Assembly has decided to put itself on the agenda, not to form a survey committee.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u142	I'm sorry to put myself on the agenda of the decision to form a committee of inquiry. We're moving on to the motions to merge the debate. People's MP Life Cvetkovic suggested that the National Assembly conduct a joint principle search on all the draft laws proposed by the Serbian government to discuss in this session by an urgent procedure. Does the MP of Life Cvetkovic want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u143	Dear People's MPs, I propose that, with a joint principled review of all the draft laws submitted by the Government, and in order to be effective in the work of our Parliament, we limit the debate to five minutes. I expect this proposal will come upon your full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u144	Thank you. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Lives of Cvetkovic to conduct a joint review of all the proposals proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for an urgent procedure at this session. Who's up for this proposal? (19), is anyone against it? (75), is anyone holding back? Nobody. ) I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. We move to the agenda of the session in general. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all the points adopted shall be included in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for adopted acts, the committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will submit their reports, i.e. opinions during the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure, i.e. for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. Who's up for this proposal? (141) Is anyone against it? Four. Is someone holding back? Nobody. ) I find that the National Assembly established by majority votes the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1997 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998. Before considering the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998, I open a joint principle search (in 18.35 hours) on the following acts: - Proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998, - Proposal for a law on the use of the funds of the agricultural budget, - Proposal for a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998, - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Excises and Tax on Transport, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on a Special Republical Taxi to Tobacco Processing and Alcoholic Drinks, and - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Security Contributions. Pursuant to Article 92(1), Rules of Procedure, MP of Life Cvetkovic suggested that the duration of exposure be limited to five minutes. Any other suggestions? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u145	Since it's already 18 hours and 35 minutes, and it's a number of important laws, I suggest that the exposure time be at least 10 minutes. I'm not exaggerating, and I'm not asking too much, but there could be more than 10 minutes, and the budget should be spoken of for maybe half an hour, but the total should be at least 10 minutes. In five minutes, you can't even read the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u146	Thank you. We have two suggestions. Any other suggestions? No, I don't. ) I put the first motion on the vote tabled by MP of the People's Republic of Life Cvetkovic to limit the debate to five minutes. Who's up for this proposal? (126) Does anyone object? (77) Is anyone abstaining? Nobody. ) I find that the first proposal has been accepted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted most votes to accept the proposal of Cvetkovic's Lives - the discussion is limited to five minutes. I give my word to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u147	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to wish a successful work in favour of the prosperity and better life of all the citizens of our Republic. In front of all of us is the year in which we need to make every effort to continue the country's economic recovery, to continue reforms and to open up to the world full, and all to achieve faster economic and social development. The agenda for today's assembly is the adoption of the Republic budget for 1998, as a key element of economic policy. Allow me to refer to the conditions of advent in the year at the end of and the basic objectives and tasks of economic policy in the next 1998. Our key definitions over the past four years have also remained - economic and social stability, the dynamics of economic growth and the affirmation of the market economy system. With a four-year insistence on achieving these goals, we have achieved results that ensure stability and create an environment for further increasing production and citizens' standards. We have broken the hyperinflation at the shortest time, and we have reduced prices to this year's 8%, which is the lowest rate for the last 15 years, and for each country in transition is a great range. Economic recovery and production growth have accelerated year by year, and for the past four years we have increased the social product by over a quarter. Production growth was based on export growth, primarily in developed countries. The population standard grew from year to year. All social activities and public services have worked well. It is rounded up to the highest degree of the market economy system. I must remind myself that all these results, which would be significant for normal opportunities, have been achieved in the most difficult economic and social conditions, with the unprecedented blockade and international isolation of our country, especially for the first two years, although the process of restoring bilateral and multilateral international economic co-operation is now taking place slowly. In 1997, we achieved the best results in the past four years. The most significant result is the stability of the general conditions of engagement. The total increase in prices this year will be around 8%. Secondly, there was a real growth of the social product of around 8%, industrial production increased by 9.5% and agricultural production by 8%. In addition, this has led to the acceleration of the growth of the incarceration activity, thanks to significant incentives provided by the Republic Development Fund, but also thanks to the growth of exports of close to 30%. Thirdly, there has been a real growth in earnings, pensions and other personal incomes by more than 20%. Fourthly, this year 446 construction sites in the area of the road structure were activated, thanks primarily to the funds of the Republic Development Fund, 150km of highways were built and reconstructed, and 1,105km of highways, regional and local roads were constructed. Fifthly, we have intensified the reform process. The adoption of the Law on concessions and the Law on its own transformation almost circled the market economy environment, while foreign investments were also stimulated. The transformation of its property has been intensified, and the sale of a part of the ownership of Telekom Srbija has further worked to attract foreign capital and has provided significant incentives for the growth of production and exports. No one can deny these results. That's why I talked about them in fact and number. Dear People's MPs, about the economic policy objectives for 1998, we achieved, as well as previous years, full consent from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Federal Government and the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Our goals remain unchanged - price and currency stability, growth in production and exports, increasing population standards and speeding up reform steps. The properly selected objectives and the synchronised economic policy measures will allow even more ambitious results to be achieved in the coming year. Social product growth of 10% is planned, industrial production by 9.5%, agriculture 2.5%, construction 10%, traffic 12%, trade 11%, export increase over 30%. The economic policy in the following year must retain a stabilization mark, as the four-year experience has confirmed the full correctness of such orientation. That's why we're going to run a restrictive monetary and fiscal policy. Price and dinar stability is an important condition for the increase in production and price competitiveness of our exports, which will allow further dynamicisation of exports, as the most healthy basis for economic growth and development. At the same time, stability is an important social objective, as it represents the best defense against the devaluement of real profits, pensions and other personal incomes of the population. The inseparable element of stability is a real and stable course of dinars. Those who advocate a change of course these days, as an isolated measure, without a broader view of such a move of economic policy, only point to their own ineffectiveness and high uncompetitive prices or the desire to transfer the burden of their own debts to the entire economy, or to wish for speculative reasons. We urge all of them to look for new markets and new business partners and to adjust their costs to world prices, and we recommend to speculators that economic policy, including foreign exchange policy, should lead to a more efficient adjustment and better use of our country's comparative advantage, not to their easy profits. Emphasizing stability, we do not forget the central importance of rapid growth in economic activity. Starting from a relatively low level of use of domestic capacity in enterprises, we point to large reserves to increase production. This growth next year must be as much based on qualitative development and business efficiency factors, so we will attach special importance to structural change and restructure businesses and connect them with the world. Companies must adapt to difficult operating conditions on the world market through the process of change in their own, market, human and organisational views. It will continue to be important to promote production and exports from the Republic Fund for Development, Construction and Reconstruction of Domestic Infrastructure, Realisation of Incentives in the field of agrarians, through the agrarian budget, etc. The special importance of next year is given to further reform steps and structural adjustment of the economy. The implementation of the Law on its own transformation, which will cover all three segments - small and medium-sized social enterprises, large social enterprises, and for the first time, public enterprises. The number of companies that are candidates for their own transformation is estimated at 4.5 thousand. The majority of the adult citizens of the Republic, about four million, will be directly involved in this process. In addition to this important job, we will launch a procedure for giving first concessions, primarily in the area of road infrastructure, in order to speed up the construction of a network of highways. Inseparably from the property transformation and restructuring of businesses, the implementation of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation programmes of the banking and wider financial system will begin. Dear People's MPs, the basic definition in the field of public consumption next year is to reduce the participation of public spending in the social product. With the principles of sound budgetary constraints retained, as so far, spending within the frameworks of the earned will be a key element of the stabilisation policy and the main dam by inflationary pressures. Reduced tax burden will mean achieving higher growth rates of production, through which we will be able to achieve both permanent stability and, in particular, increase public revenues. Public spending policy next year will be stabilising and stimulating. Total public expenditure shall be adjusted to the possibility of funding from real sources. The participation of public consumption in the estimated social product is relatively reduced by 1.17 percentage points. Public spending has also been redistributed. Relatively reduced participation of the Republic budgets and budgets of cities and municipalities in favour of increasing the share of expenditure on compulsory social security, above all, for pension and health funds. In order to improve the situation in the social sphere and respect for the laws of guaranteed consumer rights, strict collection of corporate and citizen obligations will be ensured and additional sources of income will be provided, above all, through its own transformation. In addition, a serious reform of a number of public consumption sectors is being prepared in order to bring the giving into line with the real opportunities of domestic economy. The budget is planned at 15,995,000 dinars, which is in line with economic policy objectives, the basis of public spending policy and the principle of sound budgetary constraints. It's about the stabilisation and reform budget. The budget will provide funding for state functions, social programmes and public services, legal obligations towards funds, as well as incentives for industrial production and agriculture, where the agrarian budget provides for funding of 950,000 dinars. The honourable MPs, convinced themselves, have outlined the objectives of economic and social stability, dynamic economic growth and faster implementation of reforms are realistic in the coming year and are in the best interest of all citizens. That is why I call on all MPs to adopt the proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u148	Thank you. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Finance Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u149	Dear President, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I propose the adoption of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia with accompanying documents with the following explanation. The adopted economic policy for 1998 also determines public spending policy. It's determined by general economic movements. Therefore, the most significant projected real growth in economic activity, or social product of 10%, also determines the fate of public consumption. Such a high growth rate can be achieved, since we have not yet returned to the level of capacity utilisation from the previous period. Therefore, higher capacity utilisation, based primarily on the return to old markets and the acquisition of new export space, is the first and decisive factor of projected real high growth. This process will be supported by an expected inflow of foreign funds. The second key mark of economic movements in 1998 will be price stability and dinar course, as an important objective of economic policy. It should also be pointed out that such an economic activity will take place while transforming the company at the same time. Our further development needs require that social products accumulate and invest as much as possible. Therefore, public spending over the coming period will have to be dimensioned so that as much space as possible for investment in reconstruction and development remains. According to these definitions, public consumption will also have to be reduced in 1998 in real terms, i.e. to significantly reduce its participation in the structure of the increased social product. Such a policy of public spending will be very difficult to achieve. Experiences from the past two or three years, in which there have been exceptional difficulties in meeting public spending needs, are best shown. On the other hand, this points to the fact that public spending is objectively limited by available resources, so that solutions must also be sought in reforming key segments in public consumption - budgetary consumption, the Pinesia-Invalid Insurance System, in the health system. Reforming or restructuring public spending is an extremely important task in the coming year. Given the concept of economic policy for 1998 and the objective restriction in public consumption, the participation of public spending of the Republic in the social product will be reduced from 34.75% in 1997 to 33.58% in 1998, or 1.17 percentage points. In showing the participation of public consumption in the social product, the calculation was applied according to the methodology of the system of national accounts, as an official methodology of the United Nations. This excludes the transfer of mutual payments between individual participants in public consumption. The total level of public spending in the Republic for 1998 is proposed at 43,709,000,000 dinars and is higher by 16.6% compared to the previous year. This is compared to the nominal growth of the social product of 21.3%, which includes in itself the growth of the social product and so on. Transmitted inflation, a lower increase of 4.7 index points. With regard to the structure of such a determined public consumption and the way it is financed, the following is proposed: 1. The redistribution of the total volume of public spending in favour of the federal budget, in order to ensure the functions of the Federation, which is achieved by redistributing revenues from sales tax in an acceptable 35% proportion in favour of the federal budget and 65% in favour of the Republic. 2. As part of the total volume of public spending in the Republic of Serbia for 1998, a redistribution is proposed between basic public expenditure holders in favour of compulsory social insurance organisations, and on the burden of the Republic's budget and the budget of municipalities and cities. The effect of this redistribution is about 505,000 dinars, of which 400,000 dinars are directed to the Pension-Invaluable Fund as additional funds and 105,000 to the Republic Health Insurance Office. This way, more public spending in social insurance organisations is planned and is 19.3%, while the budget is 13.9%. Despite this redistribution, it should again be pointed out that it will continue to be difficult to cover expenditures in the pension and health insurance system, which requires certain reform changes within these areas. Despite the general definition of reducing overall public spending, the exception is proposed when it comes to municipal infrastructure in municipalities. Respecting the fact that it is vital needs, i.e. the irreplaceable condition of the lives of all citizens, it is proposed to maintain compensation for the use of municipal goods of general interest at the level of 1997, or at a maximum level of 4%. It is clear that such a proposal does not satisfy the needs of the largest number of municipalities and cities. However, it is not realistic to expect that the current problems in this area are resolved on short notice, especially in one year, while in real terms reducing public spending. As part of this approach, the proposal to extend or reintroduce a special tax on the transport of goods and services on the territory of the city of Belgrade is 3%. Respecting the specificities and problems of the city of Belgrade, especially from the point of view of the duration of municipal and traffic infrastructure, it is estimated that it is necessary to provide the city with an additional source of income, or rather, to continue using that source of income, which has been interrupted for incomprehensible reasons. The funds of this fee would be used strictly to consolidate and equip the municipal and traffic infrastructures of the city of Belgrade and to continue construction of the Belgrade railway hub. The government of the Republic of Serbia would give consent to the use of funds. For cities in the Republic due to municipal problems, additional budgets amounting to 100,000 dinars were planned and that is: Belgrade, 66,000,000, Novi Sad 12.6 million, Nis 9.3 million, Kragujevac 7.5 million and Pristina 4.6 million. The budget of the Republic next year is, as has already been said, 15.995,000 dinars and increased by 13.7% compared to this year, which is, as said, the lowest nominal increase in public spending. The budget of the Republic is based on the following principles: - the planned realistic reduction of total funds and selective reduction in the realisation of expenditure itself; - a solid budgetary limit or financing of expenditure from real sources. The financing of expenditure from the budget can be grouped into four basic segments: 1. exercise of rights in the field of social programmes, 2. execution of expenditure for public services, 3. redefining the obligations of the Republic in the area, intervention in the economy and 4. financing of the most necessary needs for classical budgetary functions, the work of state authorities and organisations. Sources of funding for public spending in 1998 basically retain the existing fiscal instrumentation, with its complex upgrade already being carried out in the first quarter of 1998. At this point, only necessary interventions are being carried out, extending the application of certain instruments intended to apply until the end of 1997. Thus, the proposed laws in the fiscal area postpone the application of synthetic income tax to citizens and the taxation of foreign exchange savings, and extend the payment of a special republican tax on tobacco processing and alcoholic beverages, to cover the part of the deficit in compulsory social insurance organisations. In addition, the possibility for Belgrade to introduce a special turnover tax of up to 3%, as well as extends the obligation of an existing additional contribution to the municipalities of Kraljevo, Vrnjačka Banja and Raška, to finance the construction and equipment of a surgical hospital in the Kingdom. The key definition in the application of the existing instrument will be to extend the scope of tax collection and contribution, which should allow for a reduction of tax rates, i.e. a more even burden on taxpayers. One of the important effects of such a policy should be the reduction of the personal income tax, i.e. the reduction of total labour costs for enterprises. This will allow for more efficient collection of excise income, sales tax, as well as specific measures in the grey economy sector, i.e. by introducing it into legal flows. It is estimated, for example, that retail sales are largely avoiding the payment of sales taxes. In the period until the introduction of a brand new tax instrument (VAT), this problem would have to be addressed by establishing a tax on commercial and catering facilities by recording their turnover and applying it on the basis of the criteria developed. Dear Members, the budget of the Republic that we are proposing for adoption, provides for the provision of funding funds for expenditure in accordance with constitutional provisions and based on their legal obligations of the Republic, and this: - for the exercise of rights in the field of social protection, social care for children and welfare; - for the obligations of the Republic to finance the work of public services (enlightenment, science, culture and physical culture); - for the obligations of the Republic based on pension and disability insurance; - for the obligations of the Republic established by special laws in the area of health and care of refugees and exiled persons; - for classical budgetary functions (work of state authorities and organisations, judicial authorities and institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions); - for the obligations of the Republic to pay off the credit of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, approved in 1994; - for expenditure to encourage development and intervention in private areas, through the provision of funds for both of funds and infrastructures for both of urban resources, and for both of funds for the funds, and for the provision of funds for both of money and money for both of money and money, and money for both. The total amount of the Republic's budget for 1998, as it is said, is 15,995.00 million. The dinar, compared to the 1997 plan, is a growth of 13.7%. In the context of this established budget of the Republic, it is planned to implement these expenditures: - for salaries employed by 6,878,65 million. dinars, or 43% of the total budget volume, of which 3.352.05 million dinars or 20.8% of the total budgets relate to salaries of public authorities and organisations, and 3,556,60 million dinars or 22.2% of the total budgets relate to salaries of public service employees (e.g. primary, secondary, higher and university education, then student and student standards, culture and physical culture). This amount of planned funds provides payment of 11 monthly salaries for about 243,000 employees, with an increase of 10%, how much they allowed to be able to improve the material position of employees financed from the budget, - for material costs, funds totalling 1.159.2 million or 7.2% of the total volume of the budget, out of which 712.8 million dinars for republican authorities and organisations are planned, and 446.4 million. a public service dinar. These funds provide the most necessary material expenditure, which obliges budget users to end-of-the-art rational consumption, - expenditures to achieve the law of established rights cover commitments from the budget in the area of social programmes for which the funds are planned totalling 2.994.53 million. dinars or 18.7% of total budget expenditure. This volume of funds allows the Republic to carry out its obligations in the area: social protection, social care for children and martial law protection for about 1,180,000 users, for 12 months of obligations, at the level of paid rights in September 1997, without increasing. Restricted balance sheet options did not allow the provision of more resources for these purposes, which would provide faster dynamics for the payment of residual liabilities in this area. Debts on this basis, only for the social care of children amount to about 2,123 million dinars. This must take into account the consistent application of the law with regard to the fulfilment of the conditions (census) for obtaining and suspending the right to pay under these laws. In 1998, the government of the Republic of Serbia will particularly monitor the implementation of expenditure in this area and join the development of a programme for finding opportunities to meet commitments based on back payments. The Government's commitment to budgeting the Republic aims to create favourable conditions for increasing employment and reducing the number of social rights users by dynamicing production growth. The funds to promote development are planned at 1.454.4 million dinars or 9.1% of total budget expenditure. This amount plans to finance the expenditure of the Agricultural Budget of 950 million. dinar or 5.9% of the total budget volume, which is 2.3% higher than the planned funds for these purposes in 1997. These funds are planned to promote the development of agrarians, and would be used (except premiums and regressions), as a contribution to providing or mobilising funds from other sources (banks' credit potentials and user participation) for programmes to be monitored under the Agrarian Budget Act, which is an integral part of the total package. In addition, measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have already enabled the further development of agrarians (deposit and write-off of debts based on the tax obligations of agricultural producers). The Development Fund provides significant resources for the development of agriculture. This amount in the budget also plans to finance expenditure in the field of agrarians relating to premiums and regresses for milk, plant production, breeding livestock and rural revitalisation, then expenditure in the area of water production, forest protection and land management, or animal protection and improvement of livestock farming. Funds planned for functions through the Fund for Development amounting to 225 million. The dinars have an 80% growth compared to 1997, and these relate to the achievement of the regional development policy of the Republic. Geological research funds are planned at 18.8m dinars, or 19% higher compared to 1997. And these funds plan to mobilise funds from other sources in order to achieve the greatest effect of detached from the budgets for these purposes and the achievement of the programmes to be financed. For the financing of the Republic stock reserves, funds amounting to 70 million dinars are planned to be made available by this parameters-based spending framework. For the maintenance and development of railway infrastructure, funds amounting to 150 million dinars were planned, with the estimated funds to be provided for these purposes also from specific revenues (3% of product sales tax), i.e. more than 900 million dinars, which is regulated by a special law. For specific purposes covering expenditure determined under specific laws, funds totalling 1,801,6 million dinars are planned. Under this amount, expenditure is planned, namely: - health care of 153.8 million dinars; - care and accommodation of refugees and exiled persons of 278.5 million dinars; - for the obligations of the Republic based on pension and disability insurance is planned amount of 24.5 million dinars. In addition, part of the income tax of citizens of 25% on income from agriculture and forestry will be directed towards the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic on the basis of pension-inhabited workers; - for the implementation of contracts in the field of scientific and research work, funds of 467.5 million dinars are planned; - funds for the implementation of laws in the field of culture of 312.4 million dinars; - funds for the payment of annual staff vacation regress, financed from the budget, amounting to 157 million dinars or 700 dinars per employee, what is the untaxable part; - for special purposes in the student and student standard, funds of 196 million dinars are planned for the diet and accommodation of pupils and students. In this respect, a review is planned to increase the participation of students and students in the price of nutrition and accommodation, as balance sheet options do not allow greater participation of the Republic in these expenditures. A review of the participation in food and accommodation prices must be carried out particularly from the perspective of the length of study from a certain optimal time limit for studies, i.e. the use of student capacities; - for the implementation of other specific laws in the field of information, environmental protection and physical culture, funds of 211.9 million dinars are planned; - in the Republic budget, funds for the payment of loans amounting to 332.5 million dinars are also planned. This amount of funds is necessary for the repayment of loans used by the National Bank of Yugoslavia in 1994 for the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of Yugoslavia and for the financing of public expenditure in the Republic of Serbia in that year; - part of the funds in the Republic's budget was planned for the settlement of expenditure financed from current (about 100 million dinars) and permanent reserves (22 million dinars), how much the balance options were allowed; - for the financing of expenditures from the Autonomous provinces budgets, funds totalling 90.6 million dinars, which is at the level of budget growth of 13.7%, of which, in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, ratios of 75.3 million dinars, and in the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija 15.3 million dinars; - for the additional financing of municipalities are proposed funds in terms of 101,5 per year, respectively. This proposed budget budget implementation schedule in 1998 will be made possible from the revenue detailed in the draft budget, totaling 15,995 million dinars. In the event of unbalanced revenue for the execution of expenditure, the possibility of short-term borrowing of the Republic and compulsory social security organisations is envisaged to provide funds for the regular monthly execution of commitments. Based on what I am proposing, I propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998, with accompanying documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u150	Thank you. Since we're on the verge of committees that are so-called. I think we should take a break, use it for dinner, take a break until 20.15 and 20.30, respectively. And I ask the parent committees to hold their sessions immediately and consider all the materials. I say, parent committees, but if other committees can do that, I mean. If they can make it, it would be desirable. [[After break at 21.10 p.m.]] I suggest we get back to work. Before that, I ask professional services to determine the quorum. A total of 167 MPs are present in the hall. We've got a quorum and we can keep working. The parent committees have finished, and some committees that have managed to finish their work in the session will give us their views. National MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Stevo Dragisic and Milovan Radovanovic issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee. Do they want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a member of the Legislative Committee, I have issued an opinion on the draft of certain laws that are on the agenda tonight in this House. Namely, what it's about. I can't get rights out of law enforcement. We cannot on the Legislative Committee, whose conclusion I did not agree with, determine certain amounts of the law on the budget for items, or divisions that we do not know are legitimate and that the law should exist as they were made. Section 1 envisions a salary of three million and twenty-four thousand dinars for 1998 for the president of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. for the Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia. Now we in the Serbian Radical Party have countless evidences that just the inaugurated president of the Republic of Serbia in this assembly, of course without the presence of radicals, by the will of the Socialist Party of Serbia and their specific helpers, the candidate of the Socialist Party of Serbia, allegedly became president of the Republic on formal grounds. However, we have evidence in the Serbian Radical Party...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u153	Mr. Radovanovic, please talk about the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u154	I'm talking about division one. - President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u155	Be nice and talk about the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u156	Mr. President, I am talking about the division of the 1st-President of the Republic of Serbia and regarding this division, I have only singled out an opinion on the Legislative Committee, and I want to explain what the conclusion of the Legislative Committee is, and in my opinion, is not based on the law and legal order of this country. We in the Serbian Radical Party have evidence that the Socialist Party of Serbia candidate did not win the necessary majority in these elections, or the Socialist Party of Serbia and their representatives on election committees, especially in Kosovo and Metohija, stole 285,000 votes...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u157	Mr. Radovanovic, I'm asking you to talk about the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u158	I'm talking about the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u159	You're not talking about the budget. You're talking about things that have nothing to do with the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u160	I'm asking you to let me finish. So neither does the candidate of the Socialist Party of Serbia get this number of votes, nor has the president been legitimately elected, and the draft budget law provides for an analytical conto 9100 of three million and twenty-four thousand dinars for the president's cabinet's salaries, and that part includes a certain portion of it, a certain amount of salary. That is why we single out the budget law for someone who is not a legitimate representative, legitimately elected president of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, on September 21st this year, there were countless illegal actions the same as the representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia related to the directing and counterfeiting of election results, which is why we from the Serbian Radical Party objected to the Republic Election Commission, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court of Serbia, but without any positive results, although we have incontrovertible evidence that we are right and that countless injuries have occurred...
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u161	Mr. Radovanovic, September 21st has nothing to do with the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u162	Section 4. The Constitutional Court of Serbia is also scheduled for the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia to be set aside for the salaries of two million and three hundred and eighty-four thousand dinars, which I, in the Serbian Radical Party and myself, as an MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and as a member of the Legislative Committee that has set out its opinion, would not mind that the Serbian Constitutional Court judges under the constitution and the law of this country, are tried on the basis of material evidence, where it applies positive legal regulations. He doesn't do it and every penny that separates them, and doesn't do their job, doesn't respect this country, this people, these citizens, don't respect this legal order, he's in vain taken from the citizens, from the mandatory public incomes and given to them. In that sense, I, Mr. President, have singled out my opinion and have not strayed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u163	Thank you. Does Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the most important laws to be passed in the National Assembly during the year is the budget law. Unfortunately, the draft budget law has been submitted by the government whose task has been since the election of a new National Assembly meeting until the moment the new government is established exclusively to carry out technical and administrative tasks. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia, three months after elections for MPs have been made, we do not have a constitutional government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, at two o'clock before the end of the Second Regular Session, we are still at the beginning of the debate on the budget, the most important law to be discussed, whose material we received this morning. What can a man quickly do in a very shrewd material, as in the last two years delivered to the MPs, from whom much cannot be seen, what can he conclude? First of all, it's about the inflationary budget. It's quite clear that you started predicting loans again, and you know where it took us in 1992 and 1993. This government is a bad host. The government does not pay salaries to those financed from the state budget. With this host called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, education, health, judiciary, military, police, pensioners, peasants, children are at risk. Is there a category of citizens that I didn't count? This government doesn't pay back the debts it owes to its citizens. The government predicts loans on the money market. And you know how it goes when big money shows up, the powers of the financial mob take it out into the street, turn the foreign exchanges, and then pay what's supposed to be paid out to people who expect salaries from the budget. There were very few amendments to the draft budget law, and how it could be an amendment when we got the material this morning, we started working on this session on quite another matter. This as a sin to the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it really continues to undermine the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government could have gone on temporary funding. What tonight will force, pull back, with an hour on the wall to vote, is not the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Looks like you wrote it so quickly, how quickly you suggest it be adopted. There's a lot to talk about in terms of divisions, but it's not our place to get involved in how you spend the money you collect. We tried to do this earlier years, to warn you that there are many who were put on the budget by these laws in 1945, and from then on, uninterrupted, and now their sons or grandchildren are on that budget. Money is spent unintentional and non-domestic. That's why Serbia is sinking more and more. The prime minister's exposés did not say anything about whether or not this Serbia will begin to deal with it, but rather about the fact that through taxes and excise duties, some of the funds will be allocated to the citizens on the basis of the government's obligations. There's no one left to take taxes, no excises, no contributions. It's just -- it's all in the way. And what can be done is done by people at the top of the SPS, and there's nothing for the people. The industry has completely stopped, no basic system issues are being addressed that would fill the budget. You can convince us here that you have balanced the budget that everything will come from real income, that there will be no inflation, that you have reduced the cost to zero, but when the car factory in Kragujevac doesn't work, I don't trust you anymore. If a car factory can't produce 10,000 cars this year, it's free to talk about the budget here. One city dies, and with it and all the other great cities. And you're going back to the way you were. You're even predicting funds for the Constitutional Court's work and there's no man who wouldn't support it. Every state needs a Constitutional Court. The Republic of Serbia doesn't need a constitutional court like this. Let me remind you... (The President - Time) You might want to take a look at my corsage fingers, Mr. President, according to the Rules of Procedure, as head of the parliamentary group. Let me remind you, in 1995, MP Jovica Stojmenovic and I were illegally arrested on the street, sentenced to two months in prison. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia held a session during our blackout, at which the judge - rapporteur said the Administrative Board had no right to change the Assembly in extraordinary sessions and to remove immunity from the MPs. There was even a proposal to put aside the administrative board's decisions and the Rules of Procedure immediately, which would mean that Jovica Stojmenovic and I would get out of prison immediately. It's been two and a half years since. The Constitutional Court no longer considered it. He didn't even sit on it. If the Supreme Court of Serbia has resolved all objections and complaints from the Serbian Radical Party about the regularity of the course of elections in just half an hour, most likely this morning, before the session, that means that you have brought the judiciary down to the lowest possible branches. And from the lowest possible branches in the judiciary to the Javaljuk and the lawlessness is just one step away from us. The Serbian Radical Party, of course, will not vote for this budget, as you are trying to settle with this budget some items that the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian Government should not settle by law. It is the dispute in the Belgrade City Assembly over an additional 3% tax on all goods sold in Belgrade's territory. If the Belgrade City Assembly said it did not need it, why now, suddenly, the government of the Republic of Serbia appears as a proposing and even an amendment to one of the MPs to make it a commitment. Serbia doesn't know better than the Belgrade City Assembly what it needs and what it doesn't need. It makes a precedent and opens a box of evil. Next time you're going to cut your income somewhere, you're going to increase it somewhere, you're going to simply ignore the local self-government assembly because that's how it suits you at that point. And those who vote today for legislation to regulate relations in the Belgrade City Assembly may well consider whether tomorrow or the day after tomorrow they would have to object to such a way of resolving the problem, because the Republic of Serbia is going to hit some municipality in which they are in power, so it will reduce their income. On the other hand, again as every year, because there is a Law on City Financing, amendments are being proposed to increase the allocation rates for certain municipalities. And that's where almost all MPs are at risk and everyone would suggest a higher rate for their municipality. There's even the government and the opposition, just the MPs want to say the next day in their town -- I've asked for more for our city, but she hasn't given up the congregation majority. It's bad manners. Members of the ruling party must not give such amendments to their government. Or to ask for a change of government. We're simply entering some absurdities that no longer know who the government is and what is part of the opposition. The Serbian Radical Party as an opposition party will vote against this draft budget, but, you know, it's a big problem that the budget from the moment we received the material until the time of the vote comes down to 10 o'clock. In those 10 hours, we'll have an hour or two public debates over the budget. It is a manner in which the people's will and the people's congregation are annulled. That is why we are against this budget and that is why we have singled out opinions on all the committees that have already been established and in which we are members.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u165	There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, who also issued an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, a session of the Belgrade City Assembly was held Thursday. The session discussed a proposal by the Belgrade City Assembly's Executive Board to launch an initiative to introduce a 3% fee again. The explanation was this -- the City Assembly was to adopt a conclusion proposed by the City Government. The conclusion was to propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia to submit this assembly a bill allowing the City of Belgrade to reintroduce a 3% fee. Following the adoption of the bill in this assembly, the City Assembly should meet again and make the appropriate decision. This was the explanation of the Executive Board and the path they wanted to do so. That was quite right. The representatives of the Serbian Radical Party have not disputed the way the Executive Board wants to re-introduce a 3% tax, but we resented that it wants to introduce that tax at all. The decision by the majority of councilors in the City Assembly decided not to initiate the initiative. The initiative failed at the beginning. And, then, today, in congregation materials, however, a bill appears which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to allow the city to introduce this tax. It explains that this bill is adopted on the initiative of the Executive Board. So, the Executive Board took the authority of the City Assembly into its own hands and even violated the decision of the City Assembly, the will of the majority in the City Assembly. The Executive Board, as the name itself tells it, is the executive body. He executes the decisions of the City Hall, does the will of the City Assembly. If the City Assembly decided that one tax does not need it, that the citizens do not want to impose a new impose in Belgrade, then the Executive Board should not violate the will of the assembly. He had to agree with the opinion of the majority in the congregation and simply give up on such an intrusion. However, the next of all its own interests, political interests, the Executive Board of the City's Assembly suggested to the government, on its own behalf, that such a point be found today on the agenda. We agree that the municipal systems in Belgrade do not function, that public urban traffic is completely under collapse, that poor heating in Belgrade, that water supply is desperate, but that citizens should not pay for their own government's incompetence, but should give them the opportunity to choose a new power, able power, which will be able to provide funds from existing resources, to reconcile all these needs in municipal systems. Earlier, the assembly allowed the city to have that tax, but then the Socialist Party of Serbia ruled Belgrade. Nebojsa Covic was mayor. Understandably, they cover the inability of their own staff, by burdening the citizens of Belgrade, but we do not fully understand why today the Socialist Party of Serbia allows the Serbian Renewal Movement to cover their incompetence? I think we'll get an answer to that question very soon. On the other hand, an amendment has also been proposed by the President of the Executive Board, the amendment is even worse than the government's proposal itself. And worse yet, that amendment has been accepted. The amendment stipulates that it is now not going back to the City Assembly, because it is obvious that the will of most of the City's Assembly is completely different from the will of those who exercise power in Belgrade, but is predicted to collect a 3% tax by direct adoption of this law, neglecting the full will of the City Assembly. If the City Assembly said we don't need a 3% tax, we don't want to burden the people of Belgrade with that 3%, how is it possible for the Republic to impose that obligation anyway? If the city had not had enough funds, then the percentage of Belgrade's traffic tax participation could be increased, as it is now 7%. It could increase to 10%, increase the amount of funds that the Republic transfers to the city, because it is still taken from the taxes that citizens pay. Why should only the Belgraders be burdened with some tax to cover the incompetence of their own government?
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u167	Thank you. There is a word from MP Igor Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make some principled remarks on the draft budget. First, it is politically immature and even cynical that the government, chosen by the National Assembly's assembly, no longer in operation, proposes a new assembly of the National Assembly's income and expenditure plans for next year. It was much smarter, more politically correct and rational to pass a law on the temporary financing of the Republic for the first quarter of 1998, with the new government calling this one to the National Assembly, according to its projects, according to its economic, political and all other definitions, offering its vision and its draft budget. This is a kind of precedent, but this is the precedent that best speaks about political status and the political analyses of those who have proposed this proposal. Secondly, I think that the projection of income, based on the forecasts of the Government of Serbia, really unreal, sets out that the growth of national income and all other parameters such as: industrial consumption, industrial production, price growth on a small scale, etc., are so unrealistic that they are not taking into account some real analysis, relatively independent economic circles, which talk about much smaller percentages, but about the percentages that the Government of the Republic of Serbia takes as real. Thirdly, and I have really talked about this on the Committee on Finance, as MPs, we can no longer tolerate expenditure items and divisions, which are in some way unreal and uncircumcised, unclear. There are almost every ministry of items that talk about special purposes, about some planned projects, in a certain way, clouding what is the essence of budget spending for the Republic of Serbia for 1998. For example, the Ministry of Sport in its department has a sum that is related to the construction of sports facilities at schools, and that we do not know at the same time what schools, in which part of the Republic, is the amount of investment for each school, therefore, for every sports facility that is built for that school, etc. I am absolutely against it, that, apart from the Ministry of the Interior, in any other section, there is an amount that has been determined for special purposes. We already have to clear up once with special purposes in all ministries and with the powers of ministers to distribute funds without the knowledge of the National Assembly (I limit myself only to the Ministry of the Interior, but even here I think that the Committee at a closed session can and must have insight into the cost of the ministry and all that the ministry intends to do under a sentence - special purposes - to obtain, invest in the Ministry of the Interior this year). For these reasons, I cannot accept the 1998 draft budget. And not only for these reasons, the eight points that lie ahead today talk about a completely unconsistent programme, which is represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this area. Under the eighth item of the agenda, if I am not mistaken, you have even a proposal for a law on social security contributions, which is related to the construction of a hospital, in one city in Serbia, it doesn't matter in which city, so much is the programme and so much is the plan of income and expenditure inconsistencies, vague and practically brings every MP before the dilemma. I don't have that dilemma. I've defined myself, and I certainly won't vote for the draft budget for next year. The Serbian Radical Party advocates a completely different tax and budget system in the country. We are in favour of tax cuts, of all species and of all kinds of taxes, of spreading the tax base, and of reducing the tax rate. All the country's revenues must be contained in the budget plan, as well as all expenditures of the country, which must also be contained in the plan of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That is why I cannot accept that we have hundreds of types of income and hundreds of kinds of expenditure, which are not shown at all in the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, but are shown in some other plans, in other government programmes. It's clouding the situation, it's running away from reality, it's trying to put MPs in a certain way before the final act, not to talk about how we almost a few hours before this budget review get the draft budget. The most important act, the most important law of this congregation, we're considering completely unprepared, we're looking back at the application. That's what we need to break up with. I hope that we will finally abandon the practice of talking about such important laws in the way that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has served us.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u169	There's a word from MP Jorganka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u170	Dear colleagues, first of all, I must express my exceptional dissatisfaction with the fact that I am getting a telegram on Saturday night, where the first session of the Second Regular Session is scheduled in three afternoons, where the first item of the agenda is the republican budget and following the laws. Since I've been in this assembly since 1993, as an economist, it's simply that one of the most important reasons for my presence in this room is this law, to which tax bonds, i.e. to all citizens, we put our hands in the pocket and give the legitimacy to budget users to spend that money. We here as 250 responsible people should give legitimacy to someone's needs, not privileges. In order for this to be done responsibly, the only way that I, as an MP of the SRS and my colleagues can do it, was not enough time, because at 10 o'clock to take over the material, and at 21.40 o'clock to discuss it, it's really not easy. However, since nothing had changed, it was not very difficult for me to examine this material. As so far, the unrealistic assessment of the social product contributes to seeing this budget as something that does not exceed 50% of the total social product created, which is redistributed by the will of the ruling party, or the ruling coalition. The social product last year was estimated at around 100 million. However, it is very skillfully avoided to say how much it has been accomplished. I don't want to argue with anyone in this room as much as the achievement of an estimated social product, because I'm going to be in a awkward situation for my colleagues on this left hand side, from the left coalition to admit that a large part of the social product is out of the legal flows, and as such it's impossible to cover it with these figures, which are contained in the budget. That means, there's no man and I'd give him a reward, which knows what a social product really is, and it's certainly not the 100 million, so over it 10%, on the basis of which we claim that participation in public spending is reduced. All that I argued about with Mr. Vlatkovic, the former finance minister, remained in force and day-to-day. Let's start with the arrival. If you, on the revenue side, predict only 340 million from the company's profit tax, if the tax is 25%, it means that you admit that only around 1,300,000 profits are generated in this country. Why do you allow and systematically allow a very large amount of social product or profit and profit to remain out of taxable flows, outside the channels? I don't think we should go through the state, which is going to make a lot of our income, based on which they're going to Alimentate Budgetary Users, based on personal income tax, which is minimal and all of you who are receiving your salary here may not know, but you know from your neighborhood that these salaries are about 200-300 and 500 dinars. There's hardly anyone who can boast of a 1,000-dollar salary. They're all taxable and five years ago we're saying that the tax and income ratio is 1:1 and he's still not. You're still giving us the "Other Incomes" item, which mentions some number of 732.420,000 inexplicable. I repeat, and don't hate to repeat it the sixth time in this room that you can't unexplainedly give us income, no matter how much we justify ourselves with a new plan. Because that's where the rent-in income comes from, the state of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia's boss. This is all that is charged from the execution of criminal sanctions in the criminal proceedings, means confiscation from such proceedings, as well as interest on deposits in view of public funds of the budget. Why am I saying that this time an extremely large number has remained out of sight and reach? If in a small town like Kraljevo there is a general problem, if such budgets are moving from Jugobank to Delta Bank, because on them the interest is 2.5% a month, why didn't someone show us here? So he reduced this amount by almost 50% compared to last year's. It's an extremely large income. So, you plan not to have any criminal sanctions or any more of the assets you're renting, so that you can comment on budget users' needs. So it's unacceptable to leave this kind of income unexplained. And another thing, double budget policy. The one that's in the public eye and the MPs and the one you're really leading, that's our reality. I was accused by Mr. Vlatkovic that it is not true that the deficitary budget is being financed. I'm saying it today. The proposal, which you have before you, speaks of 303 million debt, which is due back, which has been extended by the federal budget law and this law since 1993, since I was in this assembly this time until 2002. Don't act like unsolicited debtors and unfair people, saying you're funding real-source budget users, because that's just not true. And this paper shows no matter how late we get it.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u171	There is the word of the People's Messenger, Živorad Tiosavic, and let the People's Messenger Milan Mikovic be prepared
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know I don't usually bring any papers for a pay phone, because I can remember about as much as it takes to remember, but this time I'm forced. On several occasions today, I have tried to animate the President of the Assembly to give me the floor, to show him that the First Session of the Second Regular Session has been scheduled for an irregular, or illegal manner, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, because he called on Article 82, paragraph 1, where it is said: The President of the National Assembly sets out the day and hour of holding the National Assembly session with a proposal for the agenda at least seven days before the day for which the session is convened. I got a call on the agenda on the 26th and, as far as I can count, from 26th to 29th has exactly three days, Mr. President, not seven days. And why is this minimum of seven days foreseen? So that we MPs can prepare ourselves, so that we don't go out for this pay phone to improvise, especially on such important legal projects as the Republic of Serbia's budget. What if I'm talking about the budget now, when I'm not, I have to admit to both the viewers and the listeners, because I hope this is going on tonight, and I haven't been able to read it, not because I'm lazy, but I just haven't had time, because this important document was delivered to me a few hours ago. I'll talk about this budget with two aspects. About 15,900,000 were scheduled and I tried to translate it into dollars and that amounted to $1,830,000,000. Since the budget of a state has mirrored the country's economic power, my patriotic feelings are greatly injured by this amount. I don't know if there's a country in Europe that budgets smaller funds, including Andorra, San Marino, Liechtenstein and these other smaller states, or the least countries in Europe. That's one aspect of this budget. The second, which represents the paradox, is that these are also unreal assets and unfortunately I don't see a taxpayer, or a group of taxpayers in this country who can fill this revenue side of $1.830.000,000, because everything that could have been drained has been drained, and you know who's been in power for the last 10 to 50 years. If one of your former Prime Ministers, it seems to me his name was Radmilovic, a man to vividly explain what was waiting for him as Prime Minister in drawing up the budget, the economic situation in his time in this same country was called dry drenovo, alluding to the famous epic song -- where only Kraljević Marko was able to squeeze a drop out of that dry dreno. The current economic situation, I find it difficult to admit as a Serb and patriots, is even more difficult in this country, so also Musa Kesedjia could not help him now, which is that he is once again known from an epic song as an even greater hero than he is. The presidential candidate and federal foreign affairs minister freed the farmers' pre-election tax campaign for 1994 and 1995. If I had been his advisor, I wouldn't have advised him to release taxes in this country, but poverty. The aim of the government is not to free its taxpayers from taxes but from poverty.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u173	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u174	What a time.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u175	It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u176	It's exactly time for taxpayers to stand on their feet in this country. That we can take moderate taxes from them, and that time will come when Serbian radicals come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u177	He has the word Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed budget is real and not real at the same time. It is realistic if in the first quarter of the coming year there is a full return of Serbia and Yugoslavia to the international community, which is not fully respected by all the provisions of the Dayton Agreement, the harmonic relations between Serbia and Montenegro, as well as our decisive moves that, in a democratic manner, only within Serbia, we approach the removal of dangerous tensions in Kosovo and Metohija. If we go this way, to which the SPO insists, if we approach the root democratic changes in the political and economic system, then the inflow of foreign funds and capital, by training the majority of businesses of all sectors, by developing primarily small and medium-sized enterprises in the country, by fast recovery of agriculture and by money derived from privatisation of the state budget, will be filled and income growth will occur in the budgets of municipalities and cities. However, unless all these urgent changes, which are in our national and national interest, are due to follow the budget, will be unrealistic and too short to reconcile the growing social misery, and there will be no speech on the progress of the economy and new investment. In any case, our first-class concerns must be socially endangered categories of population and maintaining the basic functions of our municipalities and cities. Today we have to share poverty, so every scale is poor. It connects to creating conditions for the production of wealth and the distribution of wealth with a new, wise and responsible policy. This morning, we voted on a whole series of proposals, to put them on the agenda of the proposals for certain laws. We have encountered one serious resistance from a part of the MPs. Laws have been proposed beyond the budget, which have one, two, three, four members each. So it is clear that the problems of the budget can really look for something that we could say -- it is a short time for us, and it is a short time for all of us, but with regard to these laws, which each one in particular is in the service of that, to reach a greater amount of money, to meet certain needs absolutely of particular importance. The law on the use of the agrarian budget has one very important thing, as it sets out in its provision of Article 2 - that the National Assembly, rather than the Government, will decide what will be used for a certain amount of money that is due to the court in law. Under the second law, on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998, it is directly questionable to the functioning of almost all our municipalities, almost all of our cities, and this is a question of existential interest for all environments and for all of these people living in that area. The next law is the law that was mentioned here, the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Excise and Transport Tax Act. Please, in that respect, there's been a full explanation. It is 3% that have been mentioned here, where it is explicitly stated that it is not something that is related to a particular city, but that it is something that is approved under a special programme that gives consent to and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The next law that was pointed out is the Law on Income Tax. Is it not important whether, at the moment when there are no conditions, it will be required and requested to pay the annual income tax to citizens when these conditions have not previously been met. (The president warns MP Mikovic on time. I'll finish right now, and I'm the head of the parliamentary group, so I can use my right. The next thing is the issue of amending the Law to a special republican taxi to tobacco processing and alcoholic beverages, where opposition is also expressed to expanding the law to the next year. This is where funds are to be made to represent the source of the income of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees and the Republic Fund of Farmers. Whether these are irrelevant things, whether it is an irrelevant thing for the people of the Kings, whether they will have the opportunity to complete the construction and equipment of their surgical hospital, for which there was so far a law and for what it is now sought. Therefore, it was extremely serious laws, it was something that touched the existence of various environments, various people, various citizens, and in such a situation we cannot interpret any other fact why there is opposition against the bill we have mentioned and where there is talk of the Law on Excises and Sales Tax from these in Belgrade territory. Well, are we ready to be against Belgrade, against the citizens of Belgrade just because we are against the Serbian Renewal Movement.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u179	Thank you. There is a word from the Messenger of the people, Radomir Djurdjevic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zlatan Perucic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u180	The Serb brothers, the Serbian sisters and all the others that you represent honorably and congratulating your national community, Mr. President, if the form of voting is restored by a 1945 deadlock, the most logical next event is that a measure of voluntary ransom is expected. It's the only name for this way of affecting an out-of-work people, who's completely disabled, who's impoverished and who can't really support budget-privileged individuals and groups anymore. We, however, are constantly being set up here by a diversion and a mimicry of discussions on all key issues. No one is against hospitals, on the contrary, they are in a sad state. No one is against schools that are in tragic condition, kindergartens and all other public and cultural institutions of this people. On the contrary, all we care about is the reverse logic of getting out of all these problems. It's not about seeing things differently. We've clearly all graduated 50 years listening to parole and we know that one situation is completely decommissioning, representing a false painting and a false essence. The fact is that countries of developed democracy, which are often called precisely by representatives of political groups who would want to adopt the budget here over their knees, discuss the national budget for a month, measure every dinar of savings, every dinar of income, measuring each expenditure. We're facing a situation where we have to adopt over our knees, we're simply holding ourselves hostage in this room, we're constantly covered with paper, like there's some secret printing at the base of this building. It's just that everything that's going on today is for Giniz's record book. When the material was delivered to us half an hour before this congregation began, a step further in this decision - making technique, and it was very innocently suggested that a five - minute discussion would be sufficient. If we follow the essence, the debate in such a way, and the adoption of the budget in this way, it is really superfluous, except that as people, we wash our conscience. I'm just wondering something like a man -- that's a word that could boost our collective conscience today; that's a word that could mobilize our morale, that we don't think one thing and do another. There's no fact here that we see the situation differently. There's a difference in the character of setting up for this problem. Could this interpartial discipline, which is nothing more than known Broz's democratic centralism, completely discourage us from every good intention, to betray not only our own voters, but our own and our own offspring. That's why we need a decent voice today -- that a man would say he didn't want to vote for a budget like this, that he didn't want to vote for a new grip in the pockets of the outcast people. That's the aspect, and that's the technique that's forced to make that decision, baptizing, of course, the Rules of Procedure itself. I think any other analysis would be excessive, she can't even show up in five minutes, anyway, and I don't know how long we've studied this Rules of Procedure. They say this is a century of absurdity. But if someone were to underline the absurdities of these positions offered, they would indeed be tragic, tragic in our time, tragic in our conscience, tragic in our future. (The President warns on time. ) Thank you, I think my exposure was shorter than the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u181	Thank you. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Zlatan Peru, and let Nenad the Chanak be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u182	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Finance Committee has mostly voted in a very constructive debate, correct and tolerated, to adopt the budget law and the accompanying laws. A few words to say since the debate is in principle. Inflation is a bad ally of every government, every state, every opposition, every MP. The recession is also a bad ally of every government, every state, every opposition, every MP. The balance is a problem that always belongs to the discussion on this subject, the balance of budgets between income and expenditure, not to make burdens bigger, try to create an ambience for the economy, society can function better, try to meet the law of obligations acquired, found, for which we all in our parliamentary activities advocate to be implemented. It's all something that's talking about it. Whether speed is sometimes good or bad, ugly or better than temporary funding, for example, which is also possible. At this point, the Government of the Republic has tried and made an effort to offer MPs budgets and accompanying laws. It is my personal opinion that this is still less evil and better than going into temporary financing, that we therefore need to create an environment that we can during the year, when we evaluate it and if we evaluate it, change it the way MPs do in order to be changed, depending on the real possibilities and realisation and on what businesses and citizens are looking for. It's important to create an environment for a complete and stronger entry into reforms, into everything that we say here as an economic, budgetary, financial environment. If there's anything I'm worried about, it's to evenly deploy the burden. What I was worried about was what the minister was talking about, he said eleven salaries, ten or twelve percent more without an increase, and the thing got tense. If it is so tense as a budget, then it means that it is necessary to achieve everything possible for the beneficiaries of the budget that arise from the law, from pensioners, social, police, health care and others, to be able to finance it financially without burdening it more than the economy and society so far. According to what is the assessment of most of us in the Financial Committee, the budget has achieved this to the extent possible. It's not inflation, I hope it's not the other one either. Let me say one of my own personal visions and opinions, and it's about something I wouldn't say again and come out as an amendment. Political relations in one assembly, specifically in the Belgrade City Assembly, do not always have to be relations that are of the greatest interest to all citizens of Belgrade at the moment. As a Belgrade-born citizen, I must say that I am sure there is no political party in Belgrade, a citizen of Belgrade who will not say that Belgrade is in crisis from the point of view of municipal infrastructure, that this is probably a difficult legacy, a small amount of money, an expensive city, etc. Belgraders need to try to make something better. I hope the Belgrade City Assembly does. Do something better, and I have to tell you to do something even. On the contrary, only an increase in the price of municipal services burdens only the category of citizens. The communal tax burdens a slightly wider circle and those who have the privilege of having their headquarters in Belgrade and those who have the privilege of selling in Belgrade. It's a privilege in a two-million-dollar town to have a firm, work, sell, trade, etc. It is good and correct that we try to enable citizens of Belgrade, not only them, but practically all those who use this privilege in Belgrade, to try to provide better traffic, better water, a slightly better municipal infrastructure, which is expensive in every major city. Finally, we have accepted the assessment of the government of the Republic of Serbia that at this point a possible blockade in the City Assembly itself should not burden the fact that everyone also thinks that the citizens of Belgrade need to make this possible. Once again, Mr. President and People's MPs, for the reasons I have said, our assessment is that the budget is necessary at this point, that it allows the system to function as normally is normal and that it allows the government to fulfil its law of established obligations. Mr. President, my personal apology for taking more than one minute and 20 seconds, given that I rarely perform in the Serbian Parliament, I hope my fellow MPs will not mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u183	Thank you. The Messenger of the people is Nenad Canak, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Duško Vlatkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, given that we have been given to resolve the issue of seven laws and two decisions in just a few hours, our parliamentary group would be abstentioned. However, if it were one aspect that no one has mentioned so far, I must draw your attention to the fact that what we are being presented is opening up major political problems. I've got to warn you about that and I've got to warn you this the next way. I have several amendments ahead of me to the proposal for a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998. Smederovska Palanka requires a percentage of 37.7 to increase to 39.7, Trstenik to replace 34.3% with 40.1%), Kragujevac to replace 44% with 52.5%, and Novi Sad from 6.5% to 15.6%. That number speaks enough of itself. But let's take a look at the budget ourselves. In the first article, it said that it determined the amount of fifteen billion ninety-five million dinars, to transfer seventy-five million to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina of that amount. That's 0.4% of Serbia's budget. In 1994, Vojvodina gave 42% of Serbia's budget, with 32% of Serbia's gross national income. So, if only it were what Vojvodina produces on its territory, it would be about six billion dinars, not seventy-five million. As far as the budget items themselves are concerned, I must draw attention that 269 million dinars are foreseen for combat and disability protection. In Vojvodina there are 72% of all fighters who participated in the 1990-1995 war, including myself. So if this were to be divided properly, then it would probably be 24,000 people with disabilities, as much as there are in Vojvodina right now, that would be supplied, not living like this moment. I'm expressing my deep suspicion that that's how it's gonna be. On the other hand, there are about 350,000 refugees in Vojvodina. That's 75% of all refugees on the east side of the Front. Since 280 million dinars have been prepared for them, that would mean 170 million dinars should enter Vojvodina, which I am expressing my deepest suspicion. At the end of the paradox, the Ministry of Culture finds it necessary to separate four million 725 thousand dinars for the preservation of Miroslav's Gospel, the indisputable jewel of Serbian culture. It's a million marks for one book to be preserved. Of these pairs, this book can be preserved, and any child in this country can get a bumblebee for free. Who wants to challenge suspicion by manipulating the money of Miroslav's Gospel, where four million 725 thousand dinars are more than anticipated for the revitalisation of the Petrovaradin Fortress and reconstruction of the Serbian National Theatre building in Novi Sad together. So two capital facilities are worth less than preserving a single book, no matter how valuable it is. In the end, I just want to say this. We've seen here that the Members of Parliament know who Musa Kesedji is, but it wouldn't be bad if he were asking questions about Gaitz.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u185	There is a word from MP Dusan Vlatkovic, and let MP Dragan Vesenov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u186	Dear President, honourable MPs, our situation requires that the budget be adopted in order to have the conditions of normal funding in the first quarter, and throughout the year, and therefore we believe that the budget should be adopted, with it sure being a realistic assessment that the total amount of budget cannot meet the overall needs to be assessed individually and in general, but we also have to go from our overall economic situation and to assess that the amount of budget and total consumption, as it is exposed here in the opening statements, should not be brought into line with the social product, around which the social product and the ratio of total consumption should be below the increase of the total consumption of 48% in this social product. Therefore, from the point of view, the need for sure that the overall budget is not enough, but from the perspective of the economy, it is also clear that it cannot be bigger. The paper in the draft budget is that the resolution ministries should propose, within the purpose and level of the established budget, more detailed use of the funds provided for purposes by the first quarter. This is very important for the Assembly to be informed again how the financial plans are defined. The Committee on Plans and Finance concluded that these issues should be properly notified. If we were to come from individual purposes, we would certainly find that the funds are insufficient in the case of personal earnings provided for individual purposes, and especially in the part of the interventions for the economy, and probably in the case of issues related to the agricultural budget. However, this is all the result of our options and therefore the JUL parliamentary group is proposing that the proposed budget be accepted and adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u187	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dragan Veselinov, to prepare Arsic Jovan.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, a few words about the budget law and the other laws that have been proposed today. The People's Peasant Party, the Vojvodina Coalition, will not vote in favour of the proposal for a bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, nor for a proposal for an agrarian budget but will vote in favour of any amendments relating to improving participation in the distribution of Vojvodina municipalities and the city of Novi Sad. We do not want to vote in favour of the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for procedural and essential reasons. From the procedural because we are deeply convinced that the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia should be submitted by the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by the old one, who will not therefore be held accountable in view of this proposal before this assembly. Secondly, we are deeply convinced that the budget law i.e. The budget of a state which is a concentration of the political and economic interests of the people, regions, economic branches, social layers cannot be proposed on the same day, voted without proper procedure and thorough analysis. We were left for five hours, between ten o'clock and three o'clock in the afternoon, not only with the budget law, but also with the system laws relating to funding, and to submit amendments at the same time. That's absolutely not enough. We are absolutely convinced that the budget of a state must be thoroughly considered and we would much prefer it to be possible for committees, parties representing the political will of citizens, and that we could discuss this budget perhaps 15-20 days before we discussed the budget proposal thoroughly. It's not done. We cannot agree to a superficial consideration of budget, revenue and expenditure, and we are deeply convinced that such practice does not lead to the stabilisation of the people's trust in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor what we would like to stress, which is that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is at the same time a positive cross-section of our respective political interests. We cannot vote in favour of the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia because it repeats old and long ago unfavourably proven relations. Not only in the election campaign, but throughout Vojvodina, in our political mood, it is clear long ago that Vojvodina wants to share in the allocation of budgets as much as it contributes to Serbia's property. Vojvodina contributes to Serbia's social product by about 30%. It is absolutely inappropriate to offer nearly 1% of the budgets explained here, offered to Vojvodina. We're convinced... 16 billion budgets are foreseen. Vojvodina's going to be about 75 million. There are other resources that can be made through central institutions but again we do not know how much of these funds or how much of Vojvodina participates in these funds and how much is returned to it. So this is enough. We do not want to vote for this budget, because Vojvodina cannot win for its assembly in Novi Sad almost one percent. The budget forecasted for Vojvodina is about 10 million dinars less than the amount foreseen for the Police Academy and the school belonging to this academy, i.e. the MUP. We have nothing against the excellent police in Serbia, although we deeply suspect that we have good police, we have nothing against strengthening the good and professional work of our police, Mr Stojljkovic, but we are against the fact that Vojvodina returns 10 million less than the Police Academy and the associated schools do. This budget has not been explained, although the budget is not required to explain, but the government has not explained where the farmers' pensions went in the past year, since 1997 they have not received any pensions and on the basis of proposals from this budget i.e. The law does not provide for pensions to be paid to farmers in Serbia that have lagging behind for a year. Although I personally participated in many things during the 1980s in proposing to establish an agrarian budget in the Republic of Serbia, today I will vote against it because there is no item in the republican agrarian budget that would pay our farmers' debts. The state owes the farmers for the sunflower for 1996 and 1997, then for the wheat this year, for the sugar beet, and we cannot vote for the agrarian budget that provides for new consumption without the old commitments being settled. I am deeply convinced both as an economist and as a professor of the university that some of the provisions in the budget law are easily given. This applies to Section 3. 10. where the Government of the Republic of Serbia is allowed to have free budgets so that it can go freely to the stock market....
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u189	Please, you've been over two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u190	.... And this money without control to decide. I think it's sick, that it's not good, and we're going to vote against the draft budget and all those provisions that don't allow normal economic policy in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u191	Thank you. The People's MP, Jovan Arsic, has the word, and the MP Alexander Vukic, to be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u192	I won't hold your attention very long. I'll just say a few things. First, I would certainly be popular in my environment and in my city if I said taxes should be reduced without increasing the budget of the municipality of which I am president. Since these two things are impossible, to merge into one, the people also need to raise funds, but to have this other part that needs to be spent. The issue of the government's competence is here to propose a budget and it is certainly not a dispute until a new government is elected and it is normal for the old government to function and it has the right to propose it to this assembly. Thirdly, here is the arbitrary use of data, at least the speakers who said that the budget in Vojvodina is what it is, so I ask them to add up everything that is under the Law on the financing of municipalities and cities, because then there will be a more correct figure, and not with which they operate here. So, I propose that this assembly, as it was brought in, adopts, especially in the Law on City Finance and Municipalities, provides for an increase in some average percentage of about 30%, which creates a more restrictive relationship with other budget users, which gives us more opportunities to develop more evenly and finance local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u193	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all received a draft budget bill only this morning and almost no one could seriously consider all the divisions and know what should be supported and what to attack. We just had a constitutive session of the Committee on Culture and Information and none of us 15, who are on that board, could know the exact amount of money, which is being allocated from that particular division. This shows us in the best way how many MPs are really prepared for this session, and think about in which country in the world by emergency procedure budgets are being adopted, and no other, less important legal projects are being carried out by emergency procedure. I say that to those who represent today a little bigger New Democracy, than they once did, those who came to the morning session this morning, and I have to say that because the state television didn't want to transfer it, those who (it is about the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement), supported all the proposals of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Yugoslav Left, so it would be good to point out a few things, which are so naked with an eye and a flat view of the draft budget law. First of all, there's an interesting item, when you look at the funding for the work of the government's authorities, you'll see that there are about 243,000 employees. Look at the 1997 draft budget bill, you'll see that there are about 2,000 less employees. If we are in favour of a cheap state, are we in favour of a country where the administrative apparatus will be reduced, so that we have less burden on the citizens of Serbia, so that taxes are lower, so that the contributions are lower, so that we have less burden on farmers, for farmers, for health workers, less burden on industry, for agriculture and everything else? But look what's particularly strange here -- it says: of which 79,150 is in state bodies and organizations, which is only 21 more than in previous years and then 163,850 in public services, which is 19 less. Two thousand there are no employees at all, 2,000 in this, you don't know where they're employed. It's kind of an echo, knowing that in the past year, it's the kind of person who's hired in the state administration to serve him, not the people's interests, and they're completely abandoned here. Says Mr. Perucic - we'd better finance ourselves from the budget than go on temporary funding. Yes, but why hasn't the draft budget law come much earlier, so that all MPs can be familiar with it, so we can work differently, and what about the implementation of the budget of 100% since the previous year, and it's paid 11 and not 12 salaries? Who's responsible for this, who's to blame? Furthermore, when you look at division 1, 2 and 3, when you look at salaries within what is meant by - the President of the Republic - what is it that amounts to over 3,000,000 dinars? Is there so many officers, is it necessary to pay so many, what does it cost so much? Some spoke earlier, and remember that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had the same costs - 3,000,000. How many judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia have there to be such cost of wages as well? Which is why it is necessary and who needs it without a regress, because the regression is particularly balanced in the Ministry of Finance. So there are some costs that no one can find real justification for. What do we do next with some kind of organizations that stick to the budget and no one understands why? Why take from people, from citizens, from business organisations money for the organisation of reserve military elders in Yugoslavia? If it takes organization, let it self-finance, and why finance the Union of the People's Liberation War Association, I don't know what. I have nothing against these people, but let these people finance themselves if they want to have a special association. They have all the rights, they have pensions, they have all the benefits they already own, based on some other social benefits. Why, in particular, and additionally that from the budget to be financed? Why burden the economy? Furthermore, in section 27 (this is what I have come to study for this short time) it is said - for special purposes it will be singled out (it is about the Ministry of Information) 41,450,000 dinars. Here in the context of special purposes are some strange items, something for printed material in Serbian, for printed material in foreign languages, etc. What does that mean, what's it going to be printed, who's going to decide? Is it propaganda material for the country, or are you going to reprint publications, or are you going to pay to those media who are going to make such dirty movies and disgusting movies, like you did against Dr. Vojislav Seselj, in the presidential campaign. Do you think that's how you can defeat Serbian radicals? You can't win that way. There's one thing you can get at one point, but you've lost everything morally, you've fallen to the lowest branches. That's why it takes 42,000 dinars. If it were separate for health care, that it was separate for education, so no one would regret it and no one would tell you anything about it, but that 42,000,000 you have set aside to fund a dirty campaign of lies, forgeries and lies against the Serbian Radical Party and against Dr Vojislav Seselj. That's why you needed that money. You'll need it. And there was another thing Mr. Perucic was saying was that he was a born Belgrade citizen. I don't know what that means much. I'm a born Belgrade citizen, too, but I don't see that I'm any better than any of my other colleagues, who were not born in Belgrade, and I don't see anyone else loving Belgrade any more because of that. And I don't think that because we're not going to vote for the hoarder, for the imposition of Belgrade citizens, for all business organisations in Belgrade, for this famous Covic tax of 3%.... Don't forget, Mr. Mikovic, your President, Vuk Draskovic, said that the tax was a harbinger, that it was a Turkish force on the villa, that it was a pain for the citizens of Belgrade, that it had to be abolished immediately, and now you say that those who are against this tax are against Belgrade. Now, that hypocrisy is no longer possible, Mr. Mikovic. That's what we in the Serbian Radical Party are going to fight against. That's also true of what Mr. Perucic said. And now, I have to say something that's been said a little bit. Today, of course, state television did not pass it on -- when the man who declared himself President of the Republic entered to take an oath, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, who has 82 in this National Assembly, understandably, because of election thefts, forgeries....
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u195	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u196	The time of the Serbian Radicals, Mr. President, is just coming, and your time and your political parties are long gone. Now, let me tell you, you're going to let me say this, I have to mention those who stole the most in Kosovo and Metohija, to get to know the public.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u197	Well, that has nothing to do with the budget, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u198	Yes, there is. They are potential members of the government, which will be financed. These are: Miladin Ivanovic from Peći, who was the most brutal in these thefts and abductions in Kosovo and Metohija and the worst procedures towards Serbian radicals, Dragomir Pavlovic from Kline, Dobrosav Radović, Slobodan Lakovic from Peća, Zoran Milosevic from Oblic and Dragan Spasic from Vučitrn, who even believed or did not, in a certain restaurant celebrated election theft, and besides election theft, he also celebrated the beating of Serbian Radical Party MPs, so watch the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u199	There's a word from MP Dražimir Marusic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u200	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed law package with the budget as a basic law certainly calls for great public attention and is particularly an inspiration for each individual, because each individual has an account, a policy is being determined for a year. Tonight I expected and heard different comments, however, we have to be honest here and we need to be correct and honest, since this is the first time that this is transmitted, after a long time, that the public listens, but this is still said under the tensions of election results, dissatisfaction and all that, and indeed, there are not many real assessments. The question is whether or not the budget is needed, whether it needs to be brought, whether this government has competences etc. We all know, the Constitution says, that it is competent for this, and that the happiest and best for every government, for every country and assembly, is that in the calendar year, the previous one, for the next one, it is what we are all, even those who are not experts in this area, we have learned. No matter what I belong to the SPS and I can be told that I am surely in favour of this government, I must say that this budget is at least the correctest budget for these five years since I have followed them and represents a major, significant step in relation to all the budgets we have had here to adopt. I'll tell you what makes me feel that way. I'd pick three things. First, that budget is real, stimulating and anti-inflational. When I say it's real, I start with having real revenue sources. I don't get carried away at all, and I believe neither the government nor anyone can say that everything that needs to be paid is covered. Normally, we know what a gray economy is, how it was created, in a period of severe sanctions. But the quality of the scope of the taxpayers is increasing every year, and I'm sure this year will be a far more favourable situation, in the next more favourable situation than in this one. It's about one reality. It's about the quality of income. In terms of the need, which the budget should finance, it is well said here that it is essential that the government has looked at all needs and assessed realistically that it cannot meet them all. It's got to spread all over the gobber as much as it can. But it's very good for the government and to praise that she's made a turn, redistributing to those social activities, which have a social function, she's rerouted some of the resources for health care, pensioners. Not to say what it even means to function these actions. The budget is really encouraging, because we don't have rebalancing and new loads. So we have a balanced load and everyone who wants and wants can do production, go in with certainty. All taxpayers have the same relationship, legal certainty that they can develop normally and deal with economic activity. I'd like to add a special commendation and a grade, which few people have noticed tonight, which is a commendation to the agrarian budget. We've had opportunities and pleasure here to introduce him. Next, just like all of you in line in these election activities, I can tell you that the best and the highest estimates are given for the function of the agrarian budget. Three basic activities - agriculture, water and forestry, regardless of what the first steps are, have yielded their results in both the individual and social sectors and the resolution of some accumulated problems. These three actions, which bear the burden of the whole period we lived in. And logically, these two basic characters also produce an anti-inflation character from these two postulates, which guarantee the stability of the dinar course, which we all stand for and I think neither on the left nor on the right there is anyone who can say anything about a stable course of dinars and never repeat the 1993 period. Since I'm also the president of the community council, I'm going to say something about the Law on the financing of municipalities. He's improved compared to the previous state. No matter what they share here, so it appears, I don't know, the word is whether Vojvodina takes so much, gives so much, comes back to her this much, and I could say the same about Milanese. However, it is one inadmissible. Through all kinds of financing of shared needs, it returns through needs far more than when something like a single segment is ripped out and presented here. The improved state of municipalities in financing is good that municipal consumption in municipalities at the previous level has been retained. I suggest we adopt this budget, with real remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u201	There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, and let MP Tomislav Milenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the debate on this issue, I was talking about the government's proposal to return a 3% tax to Belgrade citizens, and this time I want to say what I couldn't because of the time, which limits MPs. First of all, this tax was already imposed on Belgrade's citizens, at a time when the SPS ruled Belgrade. At that time, all the committees and all the parties, which were at the time the opposition in Belgrade, so both the SRS and the SPO were fierce against the tax. We all attacked that tax back then, talking about it as a big charge, tough guy. In a pre-election campaign in 1996 for local elections, each of the opposition parties wrote in its pre-election programme and said they would lift that 3% tax as soon as they won power. The Together Coalition has managed to win power in Belgrade and a 3% tax has been decided at one of the sessions. That was preceded by statements by the head of the city government. Most of all, it was preceded by Mr. Krunic, the current president of the Executive Board, Mr. Milan Bozic, vice-president of the City Assembly, and even Vuk Draskovic himself joined the campaign. In March of this year, he called on the new city authority to abolish the Belgrade-based harasser, predicated such a decision. After several months, however, the SPO made a big trade, toppling its own principle. In an explanation, which they gave at the City Assembly session, they said that every city in the world has a certain tax, for example, New York has 14% and so on. But they forgot that in the U.S. social aid is a minimum of thousands of dollars, and there's one salary of 500 or 600 dinars here, so there's no way to pull that kind of parallel. And the Republic government, for its part, has approved the introduction of this tax of justice with the alleged concern for the Belgraders. If they care about the Belgraders, then they should not impose a new impose on them, but they can be dealt with in a completely different way. Since all Serbian citizens are already paying taxes to the Republic and that a certain percentage of the tax is being set aside for municipalities and cities in Serbia, the Republic should increase Belgrade's share of total sales tax if it cares for Belgrade and Belgrade's citizens. I wonder why the City Assembly or the Executive Board or the chairman of the Executive Board did not submit an amendment to the Law on the participation of municipalities in sales tax. Because we remember even that Mr. Aleksandar Milutinovic, who is present here, repeatedly reiterated in his public appearances that the solution to the lack of money in the city's cash register was just an increase in Belgrade's participation in the sales tax. To make the paradox bigger, that percentage was even lower compared to last year. It was 12.5%, now it's 7%. The SPO, or the city government, is silent, has not even submitted an amendment to return to that last year's amount, but has been silently agreed to remain 7%, so less than it was before. On the other hand, when there was a 3% tax, we need to remember what it was done in Belgrade. Is something done to improve public traffic in Belgrade? What's a public traffic collapse hasn't happened in the past few months. It wasn't all the new buses last year, so suddenly they fell apart as the new government came. So, the bad buses were inherited. But they were inherited by the previous government, which also collected that 3% tax, and did nothing to improve traffic, municipal infrastructure and Belgrade's railway node. Among other things, Belgrade's railway node has been built for more than 20 years and it is a republican investment, not a city investment. So we've already had a 3% tax and nothing has been done with that 3% tax, nor has public traffic improved, nor the municipal infrastructure. Water supply's a mess. We still have shortages during the summer, and the warming of this winter was catastrophic. It's lucky they're not as cold, so it doesn't feel as good as it could. And everything else. This 3% tax will not solve anything, it will only impose additional pressure on Belgrade's citizens. And don't hide behind the phrase that we're against the Belgrade citizens because we're against the SPO. First of all, we are neither against the Belgraders nor against the SPO. We are against an incompetent city government, made up of SPO officials.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u203	He has the word Tomislav Milenkovic to prepare Spasoje Krunic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u204	Dear President, honourable MPs, for this debate on the budget in principle, I'd just like to say a few notes. I think it is important to adopt the budget today, and not only by adopting it, to ensure continuity and security in financing public expenditure, but primarily because it is an important act or an important act that depends on the planning of the economic activity of other economic operators in the following year. From the point of view of the reality of the budget that has been said here and whether it is possible to treat it realistic, the fact is known to most of the people present here that the budget is an important factor in ensuring stable conditions of engagement. Thus, in 1997, it showed that a sound budgetary policy ensured price stability, a course, to ensure industrial production growth, profit growth, standards growth. Therefore, there is no real possibility of financing the budget, public expenditures being financed from unrealistic sources without inflation happening at the same time. That did not happen this time and given the fact, the defined 1998 budget framework also obliges this government, as these are also the basic and strategic objectives of economic policy for 1998, to ensure a high level of economic stability. This means that it's basically a realistic budget, both from the perspective of real income and from the point of view of expenditure. Therefore, the budget is important to bring at the end of this year. It is important to bring the budget as a central element for planning economic activity in 1998, and it will in fact help other economic operators to plan their business activities beyond the new year. From that point of view, I'm pushing for us to adopt him tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u205	He has the word "Spasoje Krunic".
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as possible, I really didn't want to answer and ask for forgiveness because it's late enough and we're tired enough, but when there's some untruth and when there's talk and anything in the Assembly of the Republic, then it has to be answered. Of course, I am first of all pleased that after the talks, the agreements, the negotiations, the public appearances and the press, on radio and television, the Republic government reacted this way and assessed what was not at all difficult to assess, which has shifted us from the first moment since we were in the City Assembly that 3% of us didn't have to end and that this was our fault. Gentlemen, that mistake is evident, as in any case when someone gives up any income, he is inevitably making a mistake. The one who makes the mistake must have some reason. At a time when we suggested that the 3% tax be abolished, we had clear, precise and discreet convictions that this law would not get its extension, because it was in vain whether we were looking for it or not. On the other hand, there was a certain, severe, well-known to all of you, although in one part of the people of Serbia, who thought the time had come, that the elections would start a fiercely direct environment and that elections would come to such changes, that there would no longer be a need to talk about the extension of our isolation, our suffering, that we would come much faster to talk to the world differently and that this was our only goal. This is what we confirm today. I apologize to those who have had the opportunity to hear, especially to the gentleman, whom I will not mention, who had the opportunity to hear this, so I guess he's trying to reduce his home education and insist on not allowing himself to talk about what needs to be done today. Gentlemen, we don't think it's enough to talk about, that we had a chance to consider a 3% tax in a situation where we weren't really present in that assembly, that we were saying what we were saying, that, but that, let's just say, the White Node was just a Republic that wasn't true, because for the total investments that the city had so far, in our knowledge, it wasn't true, and it gave a lot more than anyone else, there was a Republic, anyone else. We think it's very important that you understand the situation in which the communal systems are located. To realize that none of the trolleybuses, or buses that are moving in our streets today, are within the bounds of the exploitation century, and we do have such trams. As for the plumbing, we are in an extremely difficult situation, 75% of all the pipes in the city's territory are over 25 years old. Their exploitation century is 20 years. In the city's cleanliness, dumps are in an extremely dramatic situation. The economic potential of the city is such that at least those present in the City Assembly are well - known to the committees how things really stand. I don't think a 3 percent cab can be talked about so superficially and simply. That is why I am very pleased that the relevant committee has accepted the amendment that, based on what is said there is an estimate that Belgrade has no possibility, at least not in the coming period, to help anyone else, to the Belgrade citizens themselves. Therefore, he would ask that any subsequent exposure related to Belgrade and a 3% tax be based, if at all possible, on data rather than improvisation, which want to reduce this or that side, this or that decision.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u207	The reply was requested by MP Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u208	He didn't mention me directly, but his exposure was about what I was saying. He didn't understand what I said. Mr. Crown, you and I understand each other very well. We discussed this a few days ago. From that debate, most of us in the congregation, where you and I are members, have made no decision. However, you should tell the Belgraders why urban traffic works badly, why poor water supply is bad, why is there no garbage in Belgrade, why infrastructures don't function badly? And when you explain that to them, you need to tell them what your personal responsibility is. When we determine your personal responsibility, we should also consider the consequences that you need to endure. But because your authority is unable to ensure that all municipal needs of citizens are met, it should resign. And not to impose on those citizens whose needs you need to satisfy in order for you to prove yourself capable. You have a few solutions in front of you to secure the money. First of all, you can cut costs. Here, for example, Studio "B". Studio "B" is owned by City Hall and the City Assembly can primarily sell Studio "B". This year, Studio "B" cost Belgrade 15 million dinars. That's what the budget says for Studio "B." With 15 million dinars, a new highly equipped television station could be opened. The best in Serbia -- here's Mr. Wolfie throwing it at me. Instead, Studio "B" is still in bad shape, a bottomless barrel, and with 15 million dinars, 40 new buses could be bought for the city of Belgrade. And every year for 40 new buses could have had a major impact on improving traffic in Belgrade. However, it seems important for your party to have one television station under its control, and it does not matter whether this TV station is owned by the City Assembly or owned by a private person. And for the city, it's much cheaper to sell Studio "B" to make some money and save 15 million dinars with which to buy 40 buses. And so there are many items where savings can be achieved, not a 3% fee to cover your incompetence.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u209	Thank you. There's a word from MP Stevan Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u210	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u211	He has the word Minister Milacic. (The word is Tomislav Nikolic.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to bring down the debate regarding the Serbian Radical Party, and I'm really going to use your time very briefly for that. Political theory and practice recognize the MPs of government and opposition in many ways, and here today we have had the opportunity to do it in two cases, waiting for us another third. So, it depends on how you vote for the election of the President of the Republic, how you vote for the government and how you vote for the budget, you immediately define whether for power or opposition. Today we have given all MPs the opportunity to show whether they are in power or in opposition. Today we had the opportunity to force Milan Milutinovic to take an oath here, to come out of the opposition MPs, to have no quorum and no oath. Serbian Radical Party MPs are out of the O.R., everyone else is in the O.R. I think Mr. Canak has come out, too, and he's already declaring that he's out. I see you're throwing, but it doesn't matter. A voice from the MP's bench, "I didn't throw anything away." ) We did not want that oath to fall upon us in a curse that we chose a president who did not win the election. Today we gave everyone an opportunity to accept that the Law on Radio Television could be discussed, today it could have fallen to Bastille, but only the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party were for the bill, all the others were for not to fall to Bastille today. Today, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda. Serbian Radical Party MPs are against this budget, all others are for this budget. Only Serbian Radical Party MPs are in opposition today in this parliament. I don't count small parliamentary groups - not to be angry, but I can't significantly influence relations in the Assembly. So today, things have cleared up, it's like an hour before the regular session is over, and we've got a budget vote ahead of us. And no more stories in the people, it's all clear now, it's good that there's this television broadcast, obviously that the coalition of the Socialist Party of Serbia -- the Serbian Movement of Renewal, the reality, is no longer a hint made by the Serbian Radical Party, but absolutely prevailed in this assembly. That's all I wanted to say to the MPs sitting in these benches -- when there's a budget vote, if most of them are those who are against the budget, there won't be a budget, and the government will fall. The socialist government will fall. Another time would be in history. Once we took it down in 1993 when the president of the Republic had to disband the National Assembly and now this would be the second time that the Socialist government fell. It is the task of opposition parties in this assembly and therefore we will vote against the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u213	Thank you. He has the word Minister Borislav Milacic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u214	Dear MPs, to come from the end, from what Mr Nikolic has ended up with. The government is certainly aware of the roles and the fact that it appeared before the Assembly, that within the Assembly where the majority assembly does not exist, it comes out with a draft budget. She risked, normally, the Assembly's assessment of what she was proposing, where she'd take the money, and what she'd spend it on. And we announced it, unfortunately, in a short time. Surely that remark that was heard during the series of exposure stands. It's standing, but for what. It stands because public spending policy is not part of a policy that concerns exclusively the jurisdiction and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but is a coordinated work that is going on and on about the policy that is being established in the Federal Government, which is related to monetary policy, and these policy segments had to fit in so that a comprehensive and clear programme could be done, with which to go before the MPs, and we have just come out. At the same time, the critical court, however in a short time, for the consumer policy proposed, was absolutely sufficient. It was time enough to figure out where we're going to get the money and what we're going to spend money on: what goes into public spending segments and classic budget functions, what goes into funds, what is defined by municipalities. And my impression is that in most of the public spending policies that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has established is supported by MPs. It is not attacked, the need for proper redistributions to be implemented by this policy has not been disputed. It was an estimate that it was an inflationary budget. I have to say that the first starting point of this budget was the revenue of the Republic of Serbia in October of the month, so the real money was that came into account -- the basis and the parameter of checking whether we could handle this or not. And normally, like every budget, like any public spending, even a richer state -- there wasn't enough money for all these functions, it wasn't enough and we can't, especially since we made public announcements here and we said to pay for some backlogs of the past, that we have to look for extra money. However, the social function of this budget has the first priority and has been established as such. In this part, we have full responsibility for what we propose and we think that this is the quality of the budget, such as the quality of the budget, within that social budget that we want to develop at the level of that growth that would be the largest, we know -- with a small base, but still it is a high growth rate, to put part and preserve incentives in the budget that have not only a small dimension, that is almost 10% of the total budget that needs to be returned to the economy in the context of the incentives of development, especially agriculture, but also regional development. In regional development as well as regionalisation and regional spending of money, I think it was the most dangerous assessment that has been given here from a pay phone and should be understood, not only by MPs in the Assembly, but when we are able to monitor our exposure widely. The story is that Vojvodina participates with 30% in the creation of a social product, and that 0.4% is given through the Serbian budget, not simply correct, is the abuse of the facts that stand in the budget decision. The budget decision gives 0.4% to the Vojvodina Assembly on the basis of its request to finance the work of the Assembly, which has been established as a figure based on the strict and same criteria that has been established for both the Serbian Parliament and the Kosovo Assembly. It is the financing of the administration and the principle of how pay is determined, the number of employees, the material costs of employees and other functional expenditures. That's the item and that line is determined by that number. In addition to that figure, all municipalities are financed directly in Vojvodina and this is part of public spending and tax instruments. In addition, when I talk about it, it is funded in both Vojvodina and Belgrade and Kosovo and other parts of Serbia. The cuts financed by the functions, salaries and material costs, the works financed from the Republic's budget shall be evenly distributed to the whole Republic according to their activities. So, if education goes to elementary schools, for teachers' salaries, for material costs, for current investment maintenance, and it goes to the same criteria, it's not colored money, because we don't make the Republic's budget of the difference between regions. How do you get that money and where do they come from? Surely whoever's more developed will always make a bigger contribution to filling that whole cake than the other part that doesn't. It is also a story for Belgrade, because Belgrade is also a large centre, a large consumer centre, and it certainly contributes more to the budget than it gives underdeveloped environments where traffic and trade are small. How do we think we're developing the Republic if we keep each of our own couples at our own door? That policy has nothing to do with it. This policy is clean and unburdened by the political relations that sit where it sits. The additional funding money for municipalities has a unique criterion for how many people they have, how many schools they have, how many children they have, etc. the total funding of municipalities is determined accordingly. In addition, additional funds have been allocated to cities beyond that specificity criterion. So, in that division of funds beyond these criteria, Belgrade got 60 million, but Novi Sad got 16, got Nis, got Kragujevac, got Pristina. Therefore, this policy has nothing to do with it. This policy is principled and defined in these directions. Let me just say about the tax on Belgrade. It is our commitment to propose this tax for Belgrade. The original proposal envisioned its introduction by the City Assembly. The balances are all over the place. We do not think that the tax on Belgrade will solve the issue of Belgrade, but it will achieve a material incentive to be more responsible for resolving its situation. In this regard, we support the adoption of this tax because we remain on this proposal as defined.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u215	Thank you. The word is Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u216	I didn't want to touch this political component that's mentioned here right now, but I must say, if this 0.4% mentioned here is exclusively for the administration, that is, the state of Vojvodina budget serves exclusively for the financing and payment of officials, and in that case, the province of Vojvodina doesn't exist in fact. Whoever doesn't have money isn't even alive and it's a very simple principle. This is all a story for small children for the simple reason that if you mentioned sir that it's about how many schools, how many children do you have, then explain to me how it can be in some municipalities the percentage of your participation in sales tax is 37.7% and Novi Sad 6.5% and that's exactly what it's all about. We're just asking that if this 0.4% goes exclusively for the salaries of the clerks, then you're wasting your time and effort, 120 MPs of the Vojvodina Assembly, you're wasting yourself on everything that's there, and all the decisions and so you're making here. That's what we duchess autonomists can't agree with and what, if you don't take great care of it, it'll cost you dearly. What you call a budget is the absolute generator of a political crisis that will break this country. I warn you and watch what I say.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u217	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a joint principle search. The National Assembly will vote individually on all draft laws on which a joint principled search has been carried out in principle, search in particular and vote in general. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from the People's MPs of Lazar Marjansky. The MP has given up these amendments. You have received a report from the Finance Committee, which has adopted the bill in principle and in particular. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I ask professional services to determine the quorum. There are 227 MPs present in the hall. I am voting on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998 in principle. Who's in? (141) Who's against it? (85) Is anyone abstaining? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Since MP Lazar Marjanski gave up the amendment and no one else has submitted the amendments, does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I am voting on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998 as a whole. Who's in? (142) Who's against it? (85) Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1998. We move to agenda item two: - Proposal for a BUDGET DECISION OF THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF COSTS AND METHOCHY FOR 1998. YOU have received a proposal for a decision made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the MPs who singled out opinions want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering my word, I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the draft decision on the Kosovo and Metohija Autonomous Region's 1998 budget. Who's in? (139) Who's against it? (83) Has anyone abstained? Nobody. ) I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft decision on the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija's 1998 budget. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON USE OF THE AGRANT BUDGET'S FUNDS You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill in principle and detail. The Agriculture Committee also accepted the bill in principle and detail. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I put the draft law on the use of agrarian budget funds in principle. Who's in? (138) Who's against it? (85) Has anyone abstained? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly adopted the bill in principle by majority. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering my word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I put the draft law on the use of agrarian budget in general. Who's in? (141) Who's against it? (85) Has anyone abstained? No, I don't. ) I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the use of agrarian budget funds. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON COMMUNICATION OF SOCIALS AND CITYS IN THE ISSUE IN 1998. YOU have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the determination of representatives during the search of the Bills and Amendments submitted by the MPs: Dr Dusan Naric, Dr Nikola Jovanovic, Dr Stevan Vrbaki, Dzemail Suljević and a group of MPs Milija Sekulić, Veroljub Stevanović, Dr Gvozden Rosic, Slobodan Tomovic and Nebojsa Lekovic. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I put the draft law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998, in principle. Who's in? (143) Who's against it? (85) Has anyone abstained? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Dr Nikola Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. (The amendment is not accepted. I put this amendment to the vote. Who's in? (43) Who's against it? (105) Is anyone abstaining? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dr Stevan Vrbaki, MP, submitted to Articles 2 and 3 of the mutually related amendments. The Financial Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. (The amendments are not accepted. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? (44) Who's against it? (104) Is anyone abstaining? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. Members of the 2nd and 3rd interrelated amendments were submitted by a group of MPs: Milija Sekulić, Veroljub Stevanović, Dr Gvozden Rosic, Slobodan Tomovic and Nebojsa Lekovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I ask the Government's representative to plead on these amendments. (The amendments are not accepted. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? (43) Who's against it? (105) Is anyone abstaining? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. Members of the 2nd and 3rd interrelated amendments were submitted by MP Dusan Naric. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I ask the Government's representative to plead on these amendments. (The amendments are not accepted. ) There is a word from the MP Dr Dusan Naric.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u218	You've been given an explanation. I probably wouldn't take it as the president of the council or this amendment, if I didn't have one terribly big problem that bothers me. This money, which has been won, is only for wages, the ones we are obliged to pay during the year. But believe me, in addition to other problems, which are very large, I have a problem with the cemetery. In February of the month , laugh all you want and stay unserious as long as you want, because it's a shame that in February the month began in Palanca to be buried outside the cemetery fence. [[Laughter in O.R.]] Gentlemen, I wouldn't want either of you to experience that fate, to have someone put it in this kind of grass. Make fun of yourself, Mr. Nikolic. Make fun of yourself at home or somewhere else, not here. This is what I'm asking the most serious of the Serbian Parliament to help me. It's not my fault. I, as President of Palanca, am also in charge of taking care of the cemetery and therefore asking for your help. I didn't ask to take it home, I'm asking this government, I'm asking this Republic to help me and please, this joke and what you're doing, it's very unserious for one Assembly. We're here to agree to help each other, and in this situation, I'm just asking, if there's a vote, to be on my side, nothing else, and the laws, gentlemen, you're going to make it.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u219	National MP Tomislav Nikolic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u220	I've never laughed at this pay phone before, but I haven't finished medicine, especially one branch you need, sir. And don't ever go out for a pay phone in a drunk state again. I feel like I'm in the third row. One more thing, for four months, you have been begging and colluding to return your power to the Palanca municipality. When they gave you power, you now complain that you can't solve the question of cemeteries. Well, hand over power to whoever can solve the question of the cemetery.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u221	National MP Dr. Naric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u222	What you're saying about that alcoholism to make her feel, maybe your aunt is drunk. With two bottles of beer for the whole afternoon, a man can't be drunk. [[Laughter in O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u223	I'm voting on this amendment. Who would please raise your hand? (63) Who is against it? (78) Has anyone abstained? No, I don't. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The People's MP Jemail Suljević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. He doesn't accept. I put this amendment to the vote. Who's in, please raise your hand? (39) Who's against it? (103) Has anyone abstained? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? There's a word from MP Neskovic Miroslav.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u224	I'd only ask for one explanation. I, too, submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998. However, this is not included in the agenda. I'd like to ask Mr. President to answer my question here.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u225	Untimely.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u226	Now, you explain to me whether you called this session of the Assembly in good time through the Rules of Procedure, whether you sent us the material we need to discuss in this session. So you just have two arches. One minute you're sticking to the Rules of Procedure, another minute you're not doing it. I don't think that's fair and correct. Secondly, to take the opportunity, while I'm here, to deny RTS, which on Tuesday 23 December took the opportunity to read that Miroslav Neskovic, i.e. Me in front of the SRS, SRS MP and SRS Municipal Committee Chairman Bajin Basta sent a telegram -- congratulations to the president in the election. Make sure neither I nor anyone else did it in front of the SRS. Such a pre-election campaign, which you led against candidates Dr Vojislav Seselj, continues after the Kosovo elections have been stolen. I have to say it because RTS wouldn't let her read my demos on TV. I am now taking this opportunity, since RTS is transferring this session, to simply deny that statement. A telegram card was never sent and we would never do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-29-0.u227	I put the draft law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998, in general. Who's in? (140) Who's against it? (79) Has anyone abstained? No, I don't. ) I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 1998. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Act on Accises and Sales Tax You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment, submitted by the MP of the people, Spasoje Krunic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill in principle and in particular. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law, in principle. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. Who's in? (146) Who's against it? (80) Has anyone abstained? No, I don't. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. We move on to Article 1. It's a bill of law. The amendment was submitted by the MP of the people, Spasoje Krunic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution contained in this amendment can be accepted, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and Taxes on Transport, in general. Who's in? (146) Who's against it? (79) Has anyone abstained? No, it's not. ) I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises and Taxes on Transport. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Law on the Income of Citizens You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law, in principle. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Income Tax, in principle. Who's in? (141) Who's against it? (79) Is anyone abstaining? No, I don't. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provision of Article 1. The bill has a feedback. According to Article 137(3). The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a feedback is provided for, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly shall, in particular, decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Financial Committee considers that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 1. It's a bill of law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make the provision of Article 1. The bill has a return fact - for which there is a general interest. Who's in? (140) Who's against it? (79) Is anyone abstaining? No, I don't. ) I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has found that there is a general interest in the provision of Article 1. The bill has a feedback. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? (No) I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Income Tax, in general. Who's in? (136) Who's against it? (80) Is anyone abstaining? No, I don't. ) I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, the draft law amending the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens. We move to the 7th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on a Special Republic Tax on Duvanical Processing and Alcoholic Drinks You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out, we move to a decision on the bill, in principle. I put to the vote the draft law on a special republican taxi for tobacco processing and alcoholic beverages, in principle. Who's in? (140) Who's against it? (81) Has anyone abstained? No, I don't. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. Does anyone want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ) Since no one is answering, I conclude a search of the bill in particular and put the draft law on special taxis on tobacco processing and alcoholic beverages in general. Who wants to raise a hand? (144) Who is against raising hands? (77) Is anyone abstaining from voting? Nobody. ) I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on a special republican taxi for tobacco processing and alcoholic beverages. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: the proposal for a Law amending the Law on SOCIAL CERTIFICATES You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the bill in principle and in particular. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Who wants to raise a hand? (134) Who's against raise your hand? (81) Has anyone abstained from voting? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly adopted the bill in principle by majority. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on social security contributions in general. Who wants to raise a hand? (142) Who is against him to raise his hand? (80) Is anyone abstaining from voting? Nobody. ) I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending the Law on Social Security Contributions. We're going to the 9th point of the agenda... (from the ranks of Serbian Radical Party votes - time, time. I suggest we finish this part of the agenda. Do you agree? (Most MPs are to complete the consideration of these points of the agenda. ) We move to the 9th item of the agenda: the proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE, which has been tabled by the MEP Group of the SPRAL PARTIES, as you have seen, has been proposed that the polling committee be composed of members of parliamentary groups, so that the Socialist Party's parliamentary group has four members, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group four members, the MP group of the Serbian Movement, the parliamentary group of the Yugoslav Left, the parliamentary group of one member's new democracy, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Vojvodina Hungarians of one member and the parliamentary group of democratic parties of one member. I note that only the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has proposed its members to the polling committee. I'm opening a unique search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the education of the committee of inquiry. Who's in? (84) Right now, Serbian Radical Party MPs are getting up and leaving the hall. Please, it's not over yet. I wish you good luck to New Year's Eve and Christmas holidays. I ask the MPs to stay in their benches, it's not over yet. I have to get a report. 106 MPs voted against this. Is anyone abstaining from voting? ( 15.) I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Happy New Year and Christmas break. Cheers!
