ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u1	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, allow me to open the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this session and to welcome you, before the beginning of work, and congratulate you on the choice and trust given to you by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to wish you success in your future work. I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session, in addition to the MPs, and - Mirko Marjanovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ratko Butulija, President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, Balša Govedarica, President of the Republic Election Commission and acting as President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, - Dr Ivan Radosavljevic, Chairman of the Supervisory Board for Election Activities in 1997, - Dragan Petkovic, Republic Public Prosecutor, and - Mr Nevan Kljaic, Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Allow me to welcome all guests present in my name and yours. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 239 MPs attend today's session, well, according to Article 80(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there are conditions for work and decision-making. The minutes from this session will be handled by the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As usual, the session is stenographed and recorded on the tape recorder. As you have seen from the call of the session, on the basis of the obligations arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the arrangements that I had in preparation for this session with representatives of political parties who can educate parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the following agenda was proposed for this session: Confirmation of the mandate of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; Selection of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; Selection of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; Selection of Working Bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today, you were presented with a proposal from MP Zarko Jokanovic - to complete the agenda once again - the appointment of the secretary and deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which should be discussed after the election of the vice-president of the National Assembly. On this occasion, I remind you that this proposal came from yesterday's agreement between political parties that can educate parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do MPs accept the proposed agenda, with the addition proposed by MP Zarko Jokanovic? There's a word from MP Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, our conversation yesterday was a little different. In that sense, Mr. Zarko Jokanovic, a New Democracy representative, suggested this supplement, believing there is no fourth item of the agenda, as you, Mr. President, have read. I'm asking that thing to be cleared up. Therefore, there should be four points of the agenda, but there should be no choice of committee, with other issues involved in the establishment of the Assembly. In that sense, I think a deal has been reached.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u3	Thank you. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first I congratulate you on your election. We agreed yesterday, Mr. Mikovic, that all these points would be on the agenda of the first session, only the session would take several days. So let's not rule out any of these points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u5	This was a deal. I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't make this decision and adopt the agenda. After the third act is over, we'll pick a secretary. The appointment of the secretary will be the fourth point, and the fifth point I propose is to elect the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, then we will take a break until all proposals for the working bodies of the National Assembly are prepared. If you're okay with that, I suggest we adopt a agenda like this. Who's on the agenda, please raise your hand. [[Employees raise their hands.]] Is anyone against it? No, it's not. ) Has anyone abstained from voting? Nobody. I find that today’s session agenda has been adopted unanimously. Let me remind you of the provision of Article 30. [[Applause in the O.R.]] A law on the election of MPs, which prescribes the way and procedure of confirming the mandate of newly elected MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to this article: - the confirmation of the MPs' mandate is based on the assurance of the election for the People's MP and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, - the constitutional session of the National Assembly educates a committee of three members to determine the agreement and assurance of the election for the People's Parliament and the report of the Republic of Election Commission, - on the basis of a report by the Commission, a person chaired by the constituent session of the National Assembly finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and which are assurances of the election for MPs in agreement with this report, confirming the mandate of the newly elected MPs. Starting from the obligation prescribed by that Member of the Law, a committee of three members should be educated at today's (constitutive) session of the National Assembly, in order to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Choice and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out. Since the Law has not regulated the question of how to propose and draw up this Commission, allow me to propose, in order to work more efficiently, the composition of the Commission. I think it would be most appropriate in the Commission to propose a single MP with three electoral lists that received the largest number of seats in the National Assembly. Accordingly, I propose that the Commission determines the agreement of the People's Parliament's MP's vote and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out, the MPs shall be elected: 1. Zoran Nikolic, from the list of SPS, JUL, ND - for the president, 2. Dragan Todorovic, from the SRS election list for the member, 3. Dr Ivan Kovacevic, from the election list SPO for a member. Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. ) Does anyone want to talk about this proposal? He doesn't want to. ) I am putting this proposal to the vote for the Commission's education to determine the agreement of the Parliament's election assurance and the report by the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? [[Employees raise their hands.]] No, it's not. ) Has anyone abstained from voting? One. ) I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal by majority vote. Since we have educated the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Choice and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out, I would ask the members of the Commission to hold a session immediately in the first floor. Before we suspend this part of the session, in order to allow the Commission to carry out its part of the work set out in Article 30. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, I ask the Members of Parliament to, in the course of a break, in accordance with Article 11. The Rules of Procedure, in writing, submitted a proposal for a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, according to Article 11. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for the National Assembly, may propose at least 30 MPs, that the MP may participate in the proposal of only one candidate, that the proposal should contain the name and name of the candidates, biography, party membership, the name of the rapporteur, the justification and consent of the candidates, in writing. Also, with the proposal for a presidential candidate, the proposings should, in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure set out one of their representatives in the Commission for the Printing and Sealing of Votes. Please contact the Secretary of the National Assembly in order to make the necessary arrangements. We interrupt the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report is received to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Parliament's vote and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out. We'll keep working as soon as we get the reports. I'll call you in time. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 10 o'clock and 50 minutes.]] [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, I suggest we continue our work. We continue to work on the first item of the agenda: - Determining the mandate of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I remind you that you have been given the Information of the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for MPs held on 21st and 28th September and 5th October 1997. Does the credentials committee's rapporteur want to take the floor after the information has not been delivered?
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u7	Dear President, honourable colleagues, the Commission shall, on the basis of Article 30(4). The Law establishing the consent of the convinced and the report of the Republic Election Commission submits the following report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Commission found that the Republic Election Commission submitted a report to the National Assembly on the elections conducted for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 21st and 28th September and 5th October 1997, and that election committees issued assurances on the election of MPs to the persons to whom the mandate was assigned. The Commission received 249 assurances on the selection of Members of Parliament. The information contained in these credentials was compared with the relevant data on persons assigned to the mandate in the report of the Republic Election Commission. The Commission found that with the report of the Republic Election Commission, the following persons are in agreement with the mandates: Avramov Mita, Aksentijević Siniša, Aleksic Dr Gradimir, Ameti Ramadan, Andrić Dr Milenović, Andjelković Zoran, Arsić Joca, Arsić Tihomir, Atanakković Nebojša-boban, Bajević dr Snezana, Baković Dr Tatomir, Barać Milun, Bačević Dr Milan, Bačević Dr Milan, Bečić Igor, Biać Antal, Blažić dr Milovan, Božaljan Dragović, Borovan, Borović Boris Borović, Budmirović, Budimir, Budić Prof. Dr. Milovan, Buđanovčan Siniš, Vrak Mr., Vakić Branislav, Vković Braniljović, Vasiljević, Vdrović, Vdović, Vbovrović, Velmir Žladrović, Vbljavrović, Vbljavljvrović, Vbović, Vbljavrović. After the mandate was granted, in accordance with the law, the candidate to whom one of the mandates belonging to the Serbian Radical Party was assigned, in Election Unit 17-Jagodina, Dr Stratija Petrovic died, so that the belief of the election for the MP in this case could not be issued. The voter, the Serbian Radical Party, will appoint a candidate from his election list to whom he belongs. The Commission proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 30(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate of those newly elected Members of Parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u8	Thank you. You heard the Commission's report. National MP Dragan Todorovic made remarks. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued an opinion on this commission for the simple reason that in Election Unit 29-Pec in the elections on September 21st, there was an inappropriate theft by the Socialist Party of Serbia in the second round of October 5th, or people in power in Election Unit 29-Pec. Former head of the district, Mile Ivanovic, the current head of the municipality of Pec, has done everything to prevent members of the Serbian Radical Party's election board from doing their job legally. Although warnings have also come from the Republic Election Commission, it is necessary that the Electoral Commission of Election Units 29-Pec issue confidence to members of the election boards and deputy election boards, the Electoral Commission in Election Unit 29-Pec did not do the job as it had to do and prevented our people from doing the correct election process. They did everything to disable them, they even broke the Criminal Law, and there was a gun movement at polling stations. Our election board members have been expelled. Just to tell you that on September 21st at 14.27 p.m., Commission President Miljana Doncic sent a fax to inform the Serbian Radical Party, so it's 8 hours after the start of the election, that she has the right to send her members to the polling boards, practically when the elections were already over. We have also referred the appeal to the Republic Election Commission in Belgrade and the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, all of our facts, based on the actual facts of what happened in the polling stations, namely the statements of our members of the electoral committees, were not respected by the Supreme Court. Simply, he respected statements made by the Socialist Party of Serbia by members of the election board. Here, I'll just try to show you what's been going on in those polling stations. Your colleague, both current MP and MP in the past, Mr Stanko Studen was in front of the Serbian Radical Party in one of the polling stations as an observer. He experienced two members of the police from the polling station away by taking him by both hands and two members of the SPS in permanent formation on the election board and literally getting him kicked out of the polling post. You who want to go to the 21st century, this way you can't, because this isn't just a violation of the law, this is banditism. Therefore, we think that the least you can do after these elections is that those who are the most responsible for this, in particular Mile Ivanovic, to respond, or if he has not already been responsible for many crimes, to respond after these elections and to receive a deserved prison sentence. As you know, shagging the electoral procedure or the law is taking responsibility, up to three years in prison. We think that Mile Ivanovic, who has earned this sentence, has worked hard and we think that if the court respects these facts, Mile Ivanovic will spend the next three years in one of the correctional institutions. Here, for example, at polling stations number 14 in the village of Gramola, Suljo Rukaj of Riznic voted for himself and his family. This was expressed by Spasojevic Momo, a member of the Serbian Radical Party's election board. Mr. Milan Vlasotic of Klina did not allow us to have insight into the voter lists. He came to the polling station, shook the box, she was already full, forced him out when he made a remark. The sea of statements by our men on the ground and all these facts unequivocally indicate that the law was broken down below. Those who profit from Kosovo know that's how it was. Unfortunately, they also work with the police. Now I'm going to read you the names of the police, if you hadn't checked in, I wouldn't have, but after you called, I'm going to read the names of the police, who were instructed by the SPS, who made it impossible for our controllers, or to throw them out of the polls. Few of what they did on September 21st and October 5th, the same job continued to work today. Although the Law clearly states that we have the right to members of the electoral committees, in an extended composition of members and deputies, and despite what it clearly says in the Law, despite the fact that the Republic Election Commission sent a letter to all election units, again the Commission of Election Unit 29 Pec does not allow the Serbian Radical Party to receive a solution to the deputy members. He doesn't even allow a deputy in the extended composition of the Republic Election Commission. Something astounding, but unfortunately here at the entrance to the 21st century you, which is something on the left-hand side, don't seem to have in the middle, because that's much more important, you should know... Laugh, I mean the head, not what you think... [[Laughter in O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u10	Mr. Todorovic, I'm asking you to cut back a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u11	I am informing you of this fact that you know that we will not go over this and that you will have to finally allow at least as many choices as the law requires. You can't go through with the theft anymore. We still have to get to the final voter lists, because there's still only possible malfeasance. When we are finished, that is, when we get an insight into the voter lists, your parliamentary group, which has now come down to a certain modest number, will be even smaller. Here, I was just telling Mr. Zoran Nikolic, sometimes, when you walk into this congregation, you take a breath and you say, "Bando Red," now it's down to the gang... You're not here anymore because of what you've been doing. [[Laughter in O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u12	In accordance with Article 30(5) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, On the basis of the Commission's report on the selection of MPs, on the basis of a report on the agreement of the Parliament and the report by the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and that the assurances of the election for MPs, whose names are listed in the Commission's report, are in agreement with the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out, confirming the mandate of the newly elected MPs, whose names are indicated in that report. Since the term of office of all Members of Parliament has been confirmed, I agree that, pursuant to Article 30(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament, with today's day, ceases the function of the MPs of the previous convocation. Let me thank you this way for the co-operation of the MPs, who have suspended their mandate today. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be chaired by the oldest MP, who is assisted by one of the youngest MPs with four electoral lists, who received the largest number of seats and the secretary of the National Assembly. According to the report by the Republic Election Commission on National MPs, the oldest MP is Mr. Mihalj Secei, from Subotica, a graduate economist (born 25 September 1929), selected from the election list of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians in Election Unit 6-Zrenjanin. Since Mr. Mihalj Secei is prevented from attending this session (because he had a car accident), the session should be chaired by the next oldest MP, which is Dr. Jovan Krkobibic of Zemun, a doctor of political science (born 27 February 1930), elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Yugoslav Left and New Democracy list in Election Unit 3 - New Belgrade. The youngest MPs are Dejan Djuric, the youngest MP from the SPS election list, JUL, ND, Zoran Milosevic, the youngest MP from the SRS election list, Aleksandar Čotric, the youngest MP from the SPO election list, Jožef Kasa, the youngest national MP from the election list of the Vojvodina Hungarians. I ask Mr. Jovan Krkobic to take over the presidency of the National Assembly and the youngest MPs and secretaries of the National Assembly to assist him in his work.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u13	Dear People's MPs, allow me, continuing to chair this session, to wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. We are moving to item two of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF SERBIA I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 11. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received one proposal from the National Assembly president. Your proposal was made during the session. As you have seen, Dragan Tomic, a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, was proposed for the president of the National Assembly. I remind you, according to Article 12(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur may explain the proposal. Does the rapporteur want to take a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u14	The Honored Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a final act of elections for the MPs. With the election of President, Vice-President and Secretary of the National Assembly, we today create the necessary conditions for the work of the Republic of Parliament. The National Assembly is an expression of the democratically expressed will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is the basic principle to be managed in the work of the National Assembly and the greatest obligation and responsibility to voters who have shown confidence that, starting with their expectations, we exercise legislative authority in the general social interest. The agreements and consultations in the preparation of the constitutional session have maximum respect for the attitude of political forces in parliament, the parliamentary political structure, and the specificity of its composition. In this way an atmosphere for responsible and successful work was created, so all the parliamentary groups and we, elected representatives, are best able to affirm the principles, values and functions of Parliament and parliamentaryism and build an atmosphere of co-operation, tolerance and political culture. For the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group proposes Dragan Tomic, the successful speaker of parliament in the previous meeting. He has all the qualities to gain the trust of the MPs of the people and to carry out the duty of the first man of the National Assembly. It is an experienced, respectable, adjudicative figure with proven qualities that provide work in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, tolerance in Parliament, respect for all democratic principles and procedures, co-operation with all parliamentary clubs and working bodies, which guarantees the successful work of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u15	I thank Gorica Gajević. Since we've received a proposal for a candidate for the National Assembly and heard an explanation, I'm asking the MPs if anyone wants to take a word for it? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we've been unwarranted for a long time with the appointment of this session. The voters in Serbia were in doubt why we held the elections, if two months after the elections were held, the Republic's parliament could not be established. That is why we from the Serbian Radical Party insisted in all public appearances that as soon as possible here, in this room we establish a Assembly that will suit the mood of voters. We don't have much time, and we'll probably have time for that later, to argue and argue over this pay phone again. We may not have many opportunities because the Socialists no longer have a majority. The great quality of these elections is that the Socialist Party of Serbia is no longer able to create 126 MPs and thus discriminate against all those who do not think as Socialists. That quality has shown that socialists are able to learn how democracy in the world is implemented. The consultations we had on two occasions showed that representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia are extremely well-known political theory. They did not apply it in practice, but Serbian citizens told the Socialists in the elections that from now on they are asking that democracy and the legality of work in this assembly be respected exclusively. We don't have much to boast about the old stimuli. We didn't do anything important, we didn't do anything when it was supposed to work, and we worked when other people didn't work. We passed very important laws, by emergency procedure, you invited us to discuss and vote on one text of the law, and in the morning you waited for us with new texts of the law. It will no longer be possible in this congregation. We had consultations and all the parliamentary groups took part in these consultations and we had a deal. We should tell from this pay phone what we agreed, so we don't give the press any different statements. We agreed that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group as the strongest parliamentary group in this assembly, although the way they came to 86 MPs is not correct for their opposition partners, but let those who go with them think about it, that they have the right to propose a candidate for Parliament president. We're not interested in who's running for president of the assembly. Now we hear it's Mr. Dragan Tomic. So, he'll do the duty of president of Serbia. For the past few months, we have not had any objections to Mr Dragan Tomic's duties as president of Serbia. It is important for us that the president of Serbia does not violate the country's constitution and laws. That's not what Mr. Tomic was doing, and I have to admit it, even though he's my political rival. We have suggested that the Serbian Radical Party has one vice-presidential post, that the Serbian Renewal Movement has one, that the JUL has one and that the parliamentary group representing the Hungarian national minority and thus symbolically represents all minorities in this country, has the right to one vice-presidential post. That's what we agreed to do, and that's how we vote. If one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups has agreed on something he does not have a mandate or if some parliamentary group will take the opposite of this agreement to the vote - we consider it an immoral act and we think it would be time and a place to discuss it now, how the vote will pass. You know very well that we were played in this congregation in January 1994. Both by the Socialist Party of Serbia and by the parties that were then in opposition. You know that you did not want to vote for our vice president and for three MPs of the Serbian Radical Party in the Greater Republic, and that you voted for the other opposition candidates and therefore knowingly stepped down the agreement that we had, carried out in the same way as now, and the rest of the opposition accepted that you also sent your representatives to the meetings of the Greater Republic and the calm souls of your board members to empower even to convene sessions, so that you would hold meetings of the National Assembly. So if some parliamentary group doesn't want to vote for a deal like this, I'd ask for it to be cleared now -- who participates in the agreements and who doesn't participate. I think it's clear to all of us that the distribution in the Assembly is in the office of the Assembly, not a coalition that is building a government. That's what we talked about in 1994, when you played us and when we said that the people had given us the right to have one vice president and three MPs in the Greater Republic, and you played the wish of the people. That's why you came to the number of MPs you have. For the entire term of office, I've been telling you from this pay phone that you'll have far less mandates than you've ever had before. From now on, as you start working, of course I can't say right now that you're going to have any less, but the first next session is going to make me go out for the pay phone and tell you -- either you're going to fall more or you're going to stop with this fall. So we'll vote in accordance with the agreement. And if you think you're playing a deal, or you or you, tell us right now that we're making new deals. Anyone who does not wish to participate in the arrangements shall be made known immediately. We believe that we have the right to the vice president, that the Socialists have the right to the president, that others have the right to vice presidents. As we want you to vote for our vice president, so we will vote for everyone else on the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u17	I thank Mr. Nikolic. I'm asking the Members of Parliament if anyone else wants to take a word for it. He has the word Mr. Milan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u18	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot agree with Mr. Nikolic in everything. In two moments, we spoke. We spoke openly. We clearly identified our views and made clear what we could agree to and cannot do. We did not hide it from the media, nor from the press, nor from the television, and we made public statements about it. We have one particular reason. Elections for officers of the Assembly are dropping in time just before the elections are for the President of the Republic. They will undoubtedly influence the results of these elections in a certain way. And what's wrong with you and not leaving me alone? No one interrupted you or Mr. Tom. We want a new congregation we want to convince them that this one will be better, if it will be better, let's be better, each of us individually. Therefore, in such a situation, with election results, knowing the strength of our parliamentary group, we have determined our position. We didn't propose a candidate for president in our ranks, first. And secondly, we clearly defined ourselves here at the first meeting and requested that this constitutive assembly begin after the end of at least the first round of presidential elections. Most of it's been defined differently. It is clear - if most of them have otherwise defined that all further talks could only be in line with such a definition of the majority. In such a situation, not to slow it down, we even said that it was a matter that should be in the jurisdiction of either the Socialist or the Radical, and we have publicly defined ourselves and in more mosses we have assessed and concluded that in these elections we will refrain from voting. That we won't vote against, because it would be absurd if we didn't put our opponent or candidate for office as president of the assembly at the same time. By voting, no matter what vote must be respected, as is respected and the vote of citizens who have defined themselves in a certain way. It is not a side matter whether in a few minutes we will vote for the President of the Assembly, who, as such, is not a government, is not a special authority, because the legislative authority is all of us together. The National Assembly is by one of the opening provisions of our constitution the one who holds power, not the President. I absolutely agree that this is not a division of power, between people who are going to be elected today, but is a division of one job that needs to be run together in the right way. In such a situation, especially given the fact that we are a member of 87. The Constitution of Serbia, over the past days and months, has interpreted ways that are not entirely in line with the text written in the Constitution, where it is written -- if the President of the Republic for any reason has been temporarily prevented from performing his post, it is replaced by the President of the Assembly. Now, in such a situation, this choice has far greater weight than in a normal situation in which the President of the Assembly would be elected. Therefore, we remain in this and in a publicly expressed position that we will refrain from voting against the election of the speaker of the assembly at this point. With regard to the Vice-President of the Assembly, since that was already the case, they absolutely took the view that a proposal such as the Socialists had made could be accepted, and then everyone else agreed with it, because everyone in the same or similar way and we think. So that's what this is all about, but right now I say, the final point of today's session is being -- the appointment of the Secretary of the Assembly, and in this respect we've made a statement, and in this respect there's been a situation that isn't like that -- that we've agreed on everything. Because everyone else said, either we will support that candidate (we will support him), or, as the representatives of the Serbian Radical Party said, they will not support that candidate, they will not support the New Democracy proposal. Thus, we did not commit to a complete agreement on everything, but we agreed on some things in all things, and most things exist on one side or on the other. For these reasons, we remain with those attitudes that I have spoken of.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u19	I thank Mr. Mikovic. Mr. Nikolic wants a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u20	We really need to clear this up to the end, because it will define us when we vote. So today's election of President and Vice-President of the National Assembly is not at all related to the election of the President of the Republic. If Mr. Dragan Tomic were a candidate for the president of the Republic, this argument could be respected. He is not a candidate for the President of the Republic, and in no way can he favor any candidate. The election's in a few days anyway, and your election is like a peasant's job -- how you've plowed, how you sown, how you kept, how you reaped. It's not just three days of plowing, feeling and keeping, from Thursday to Sunday, but it's done systematically, persistently and for a long time. Besides, we're all keeping records of who's been plowing these seven years, and we're taking every chance to point that out. Mr. Mikovic, there are no abstentions on the ballot - there are "yes" or "no". How am I supposed to know that you voted if you were held back? And why would you be restrained? If you say yourself that it is necessary to respect the will of the citizens, asami, you say that we want to vote for the vice president of the SPS, where do you have the moral right not to vote for the candidate of the SPS? I'm not their lawyer, but there's a Serbian Radical Party involved. I forgot to tell you, too, (returning to the part of the messengers in the hall) and you are much smaller than you were. And you'll be even smaller, I'm sure for you, so you'd better enjoy it a little while longer, while it is, I don't see why you're making so much noise around the seat of the President of the Republic when your side doesn't interest you. And at least in the next two choices, you won't be interested in it at all. Perhaps your candidate can convince you to win the next election, and he cannot convince the citizens of Serbia. You're always told you'll win. So, let's clear one thing -- the election of the Parliament's secretary doesn't belong to the New Democracy parliamentary group, belongs first to the Socialist Party of Serbia, so if she doesn't want it, to the Serbian Radical Party, so if she doesn't want it, to the Serbian Renewal Movement, so if he doesn't want it, to JUL, if the JUL doesn't want it, to the New Democracy. Well, he can't be the Secretary of Parliament from the least parliamentary group. Do you have somewhere in Serbia, in municipalities where you are in power, a secretary of the municipality that is not from your political party? He says he doesn't do politics. So in Kragujevac, we have a secretary at the politics sessions. Who's that little guy that's picking up? He's speaking to the messenger from the O.R. ) Get up, raise your hand, get up, talk to the boss of the strongest parliamentary group, so let's do a little order in this assembly. So it's unrelated, and it's tied up, Mr. Mikovic. If you really don't want to vote, as agreed, we will make a new agreement on the schedule of vice-presidential seats, and then, we are twice as strong as all the other parliamentary groups, we will have twice as many vice-presidents, or there won't be any choices today, let them delay for another day, and the right to tell you that this is not so bad for Serbia and that we radicals don't care that the sooner the better, the new elections are the most appropriate to us. That's what you should know. You're doing a little politics, and it's time for you to do politics. You've been screaming, you've been fighting, and now you've got a little politics to do. Politics is a serious discipline, not a bucadian's discipline.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u21	I thank Mr. Nikolic. Is there anyone else who can answer the word? Here you go. Gorica Gajević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u22	The Socialist Party of Serbia, as well as other parties, participated in agreements, and the truth works, must be said that all parliamentary groups, namely their representatives, said it is necessary to establish Parliament as soon as possible and select the officials of Parliament, or as Mr Mikovic says - officers. It was said and arranged at our first meeting together. We agreed and concluded that the parliamentary elections were one, the presidential elections of the other, that the will of the citizens must be respected, and therefore we agreed that this session should be scheduled today, that the Socialist Party of Serbia should propose the president and the other parties to the vice-president and candidate for the secretary. Even there was a firm view of all the participants of the agreement that this constitution of Parliament and parliamentary elections were not used for the purpose or any manipulation for the presidential elections, and I think the approach that we had here at the beginning is an expression of such an agreement and such an atmosphere that we had. I think it's up to all of us to send that agreement and these conclusions and attitudes out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u23	I thank Gorica Gajević. Who's next to the word? He has the word Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u24	Mr. Chairman, MPs, with just a few words about Mr. Tomic's candidacy as National Assembly President. I am obliged, in front of the People's Peasants' Party and all those voters who voted for the Vojvodina Coalition, to say that in the election campaign or in the pre-election campaign, we have devoted a lot of difficult words at the expense of this assembly and the very chairmanship of Mr. Tomic. We cannot vote for this proposal, that Mr. Tomic be re-elected president of the National Assembly, because we are deeply convinced that Mr. Tomic cannot rightly lead two industries, one political and one called the Oil Industry of Serbia. There's only one function place, and given the importance of these two places, it's enough to exhaust your knowledge and your work on just once. I think it would be a good idea for Mr. Tomic to be defined between these two places alone, and as far as we're concerned, it wouldn't be good for him to be in either place. We have devoted many difficult words to the state of our agriculture, the inability of our farmers across Serbia to properly carry out the sowing, plowing, and precisely because there was not enough oil. We are against this proposal because during the work of the National Assembly, often this assembly has fallen into the irregularity of its work, precisely because of the way Mr. Tomic led this assembly, with frequent violations of the Rules of Procedure. With extreme discomfort, we also remember Mr. Tomic's words during last year's and this year's demonstrations of people throughout Serbia, due to irregular acceptance of election results, that Mr. Tomic has brought Belgrade students closer to the concept of fascists, which we cannot forgive him. That's why I want to make it public that the People's Peasants' Party, on behalf of all its voters and the Vojvodina Coalition, cannot vote for this proposal and we will raise our hand against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u25	He has the word Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and friends, it's a very simple matter -- we, duchess autonomists, are not going to participate in all of this, for the clear reason that we, first of all, are not too many of us, because and this as many of us as we are, it's quite enough for me to draw your attention that if you don't be more responsible for those... If you are not more responsible to the people who voted for you, with great error, we will leave. I want to distract you. If you don't act more responsibly towards those who voted for you, to a large extent out of error, we will get out of here. You don't need a Duke around your neck yet. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u27	Does anyone else want a word? He has the word Mr. Kasa.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to convey on behalf of our electoral body the greetings and the desire for this assembly to begin the process of democratisation in Serbia. We have actively participated in the elections, we have actively participated in the talks so far. We are prepared to honor the agreement that has been reached so far. However, let me say that today we will not give a name to the Vice-President of the Assembly, because we want to start dialogue, the talks, both with the left-wing parties and with the Serbian Radical Party as soon as possible. If these conditions are met recently, we will name the vice president of the National Assembly of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u29	I thank Mr. Kassi. Does anyone else want a word? He has the word Mr. Slobodan Nenadovic, a member of the SPO from Valjev.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Article 13. The Rules of Procedure are prescribed that before the election of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly shall decide whether to vote publicly or in secret. The proposal of the Serbian Movement's parliamentary club is to make the vote public. The reasons are well-known views of the heads of Parliament's parties and the efficiency of the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u31	When that agenda comes to order, we'll discuss it. According to Article 12(5), Rules of Procedure, allow us to establish a list of candidates for the president of the National Assembly of Serbia. One proposal was submitted. For the president of the National Assembly, Dragan Tomic was proposed, ahead of the Socialist Party of Serbia. According to Article 13. The Rules of Procedure, before the election of the president, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. Any suggestions? He has the word Mr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u32	Dear colleagues, Article 13. The Rules of Procedure provide for the National Assembly to declare its voting method. On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, I suggest that the vote be held in secret.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u33	Thank you. Any other suggestions? He has the word National MP Slobodan Nenadovic.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u34	They reiterate their proposal that the MPs on the election of the president of the National Assembly of Serbia be voiced by a public vote. The reasons for this proposal are clear: the views of the heads of the parliamentary groups and the efficiency of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u35	Thank you. We have two proposals: one proposal to vote in secret and another proposal to vote publicly. Before we move to the vote, we must determine the quorum, so allow us to determine the number of MPs present in the hall. According to the Service, 239 MPs are present in the O.R. That means we can make a full decision. First, I put the proposal, submitted by Parliament MP Life Cvetkovic, to hold the vote to elect the speaker of the assembly by a secret vote. Who's up for that proposal, please raise your hand. Is anyone against it? 111 MPs voted for this proposal. I am voting on the second proposal, issued by MP Slobodan Nenadovic, to hold a public vote on the election of the president of the National Assembly of Serbia. Who's in favour of a public vote, please raise your hand? According to a report we received from the Service, 239 MPs attend the session, 111 MPs voted in favour of a secret vote and 132 MPs voted in favour of a public vote. Therefore, the elections will be held by a public vote. I find that the Assembly has decided by majority that the election of the speaker of the assembly should be made by a public vote. Since the National Assembly has decided to hold the election of the National Assembly president by a public vote, we should hold the vote by calling the MPs, in accordance with Article 14. Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you it's article 121. Rules of Procedure laid down the procedure for the implementation of the public vote. By calling, according to that provision, a vote should be made. The Secretary of the National Assembly calls out the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name. Each appointed MP pronounces the word "yes", "no" or "abstained". The chairman reiterates the name and last name of the MP, who voted, as well as his statement, or determines that he was absent or that he did not want to vote. The Secretary of the National Assembly shall write down a statement by the MP or his absence with his name and last name in the list. The Secretary of Parliament is not present, the secretary's duty will be done by the deputy secretary. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I'm asking the Deputy Secretary to come out for a pay phone and perform production.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u36	Avramov Mita - za, Aksentijević Siniša - za, Aleksic Dr Gradimir -za, Ameti Ramadan - abstensive, Andrić Dr Milena - v, Ađelković Zoran - za, Arsić Joca - za, Arsić Tihomir - za, Atanacković Nebojša - odstenžan, Bijević Dr Snježana - od, Baković Dr Tatomir - za, Barać Milun - za, Božović dr Milan - za, Boživić Igor - za, Bijemir Antal - za, Budimir Dr Milan - absten, Bozao Dragan - za, Bojić Prof. Dragažan - Zažan Zavržan, Dr. Mirović - Za Žažažažažan Žažažan Žaža Žažar, Žažan Ža Žaž, Žažan Žižažar, Vović - Z.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u37	After we've finished voting for the election of the National Assembly president, I call my vote. Let us first add and report the results. Please don't rush anything, we have time. Dear People's MPs, allow me to announce the results of the election. [[Pause.]] Of the 246 MPs, as far as they joined the vote, 193 MPs voted for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia candidate Dragan Tomic. Four MPs voted against it. [[Applause]] There were 49 MPs with abstentions. That's how it's given in this list. Dear People's MPs, based on your vote, I find that candidate Dragan Tomic has received most of the votes of MPs, who have joined the vote, and that the National Assembly for National Assembly President Dragan Tomic has elected Allow me to congratulate Dragan Tomic on the election of President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf and on my behalf. [[Applause]] I'm asking the President-elect to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u38	Dear People's MPs, I thank you for your trust. Today something happened to me, and I believe you, personally cheered, and that's the round of applause when we unanimously adopted the agenda. He showed that a new spirit is beginning to rule in this National Assembly, which will encourage not only us, but primarily our voters, the people who chose us and who showed us confidence. Therefore, as president of the National Assembly, I promise to do everything possible to control the spirit of tolerance in this National Assembly, to improve the development of democracy and democratic relations and to do what Serbia deserves and to do for the sake of this country, for Serbia's sake. Cheers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u39	I ask the newly elected president of the National Assembly to take over the work of this assembly after a 30-minute break. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-RS_1997-12-03-0.u40	Dear People's MPs, I suggest we continue our work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 18, the Vice-President of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly received three proposals for candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. You have been served with proposals from candidates for vice presidents of the National Assembly. As you have seen, MPs are proposed for the vice presidents of the National Assembly: 1. Prof. Dr. Vladimir Stambuk, member of the Yugoslav Left, 2. Vojislav Mihailovic, a member of the Serbian Renewal Movement, 3. Dragan Todorovic, a member of the Serbian Radical Party. As referred to in Article 19(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall have the right to explain the proposal, to ask if the rapporteurs wish to explain the candidates' proposals for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. No, they don't. ) Since we have received proposals from candidates for vice presidents of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on these proposals. Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? He doesn't want to. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. Allow me to, according to Article 19(5). Rules of Procedure, in the alphabetical order of the last name, I shall establish a list of candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. According to the proposals submitted, I am setting out the following list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: 1. Mihailović Vojislav, 2. Todorović Dragan, 3rd Prof. Stumbuk Vladimir. I remind you that, according to Article 20. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, decides whether they will vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote known by MPs to each candidate individually - by raising hands or by calling. Is there any proposal on how to vote for the election of vice-president of the National Assembly? (Glassing in the O.R.: Raise your hands.) ) Are you all agreed to plead by hand-lifting, publicly? Approval. Are you all agreeing not to vote on it? Approval. ) Before voting on the proposal, please establish the quorum and the number of MPs attending the session. I find that the sittings are attended by 219 MPs. We have a quorum. We can work. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Vojislav Mihailovic as vice-president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand. [[Employees raise their hands.]] Should we count? (Glasses in the O.R.): Not necessary. Is anyone against it? No, it's not. ) Has anyone abstained from voting? No, it's not. ) I find that Vojislav Mihailovic has been unanimously elected vice president of the National Assembly. Secondly, I would like to put the motion to elect MP Dragan Todorovic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? Thank you. Is anyone against it? Five messengers raise their hands. ) Has anyone abstained from voting? (One Messenger raises his hand.) ) I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the proposal to elect MP Dragan Todorovic as vice-president of the National Assembly. Third, I would like to put to the vote a proposal to elect the MP of the National Assembly, Dr. Vladimir Stambuk, as vice-president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? Thank you. Is anyone against it? Five messengers raise their hands. ) Has anyone abstained from voting? Seven messengers raise their hands. ) Since we have held a vote on each of the proposed candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, I conclude the vote. Since all the candidates Vojislav Mihailovic, Dragan Todorovic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Stambuk received most of the votes of the MPs present, I find that they were elected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate the vice-presidents of the National Assembly on their election on your behalf and on my behalf, and I ask them to take their seats next to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: THE NAME OF THE SECRETARY OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Dear Peoples of Parliament, let me remind you that it is a member of 25. [[Applause]] The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided for the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly, shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure and in the manner foreseen for the election of the President of the National Assembly, i.e. the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the election of the President of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly to the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides for a candidate for the National Assembly secretary to propose at least 20 MPs, received one proposal from the National Assembly secretary. Your proposal was made during the session. As you have seen, Predrag Trajkovic, who was proposed by 56 MPs, was the secretary of the National Assembly. I remind you, according to Article 12(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur may explain the proposal. Does the rapporteur want to explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. ) Since we have received a proposal from the National Assembly's secretary, I am opening a search on this proposal. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. Allow me to, according to Article 12(5). Rules of Procedure, I set out a list of candidates for the National Assembly Secretary with only one candidate: Predrag Trajkovic. I remind you that, according to Article 13. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it is voted by the call of MPs. Is there a proposal on how to vote for the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly? It must be voted on by the Rules of Procedure, as has been done for the president of the National Assembly. [[We'll vote hand-lifting.]] Please make a statement, shall we vote in public or in secret? Publicly. ) Are you all agreed to public vote? Yeah. We're going to vote in public with a roll call. Please, before joining the vote to determine if there is a quorum. There are 243 MPs present in the room. So we have a quorum and we can approach the vote. Avramov Mita - v, Aksentijević Siniša - v, Aleksic dr Gradimir - za, Ameti Ramadan - abstensive, Andrić Dr Milena - abstensed, Andjelković Zoran - za, Arsić Joca - za, Arsić Tihomir - za, Atanakković Nebojša-boban - za, Bajović Dr Snezana - za, Baković Dr Tatomir - za, Barać Milun - v, Bočević dr Milan - v, Borović Igor - v, Budimir - v, Budimir - v, Budimir - za, Budimir - za, Budimir - za, Budjan Dragan - za, Božan Prof. - Mr Milovnavić - Mražan, Vbrović - Mr. Ninoslav - absent, Stojmirović Mr Ljubisa - v, Stojković Velibor - v, Stojmenović Jovica - v, Studen Dr Stanko - v, Suljević Dzemail - abstentioned, Tabaković Jorgovanka - v, Tiosavić Živorad - v, Todorović Dr Vasilija - v, Todorović Dragan - v, Tomić Dragan - za, Tomović Mr Slobodan - za, Tomčić Milovan - za, Trajković Prof. Dr Josip - za, Čikos Predrag-Cola - za, Čolic Dragan - v, Čotrić Aleksandar - za, Sljić Milomir - za, Štubuku prof. Dr. Vladimir - za.
