ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the second day of the 20th session of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. With the replacement card number 11, Mr Miroslav Kalousek votes with the replacement card number 7 of Mrs Květa Matušovská. I am saying that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Jiří Běhounek between 9.30 and 11.30 for work reasons, Stanislav Blaha due to foreign travel all day, Petr Gazdík within 12 hours for health reasons, Milan Chovanec for morning meetings for health reasons, Pavel Kováčik for morning meetings for work reasons, Ilona Mauritzová within 13 hours for no reason, Ondřej Profant within 10 hours for health reasons, Ondřej Veselý within 12 hours for work reasons. From members of the government Andrej Babiš since 9.40 due to foreign travel, Minister Dostálová due to foreign travel all day and Antonín Staněk due to foreign travel all day. Mr. Pražák votes with replacement card number 10. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that in a few moments the President of the Republic Miloš Zeman will be attending our meeting hall. I'm gonna ask you to calm down. [[Members are rising. He sounds fanfare from Libuše, the President of the Republic comes to the Chamber of Commons and takes his seat at the speaker's desk.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me welcome you here among the Members of the Chamber of Deputies. And Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u2	Thank you. A serious fellow Member, honourable Members. For the sixth time every year, I come before you to discuss the most important law of the year, i.e. the State Budget Act. With modesty, I would like to point out that I have been dealing with the issue of the state budget for 28 years. From the time I was elected chairman of the Federal Assembly's budget committee in 1990 after the first free elections until today. However, I do not want to nostalgically recall this interesting life interval and I would like to share my views with you on today's version of the state budget. I'm going to be based on two simple principles that I've adopted over the last 28 years. First principle. Investment growth is supposed to be higher than consumption growth. Sounds nice, doesn't it? But I remember David Cameron's statement, which said: "Parliamentary democracy is a great thing. If only there weren't always any choices." And when elections are approaching, it is logical that politicians are handing out gifts to voters and forgetting investment somewhat. Because, as is generally known, investment does not have the right to vote. That is why I always try in the debate on the state budget to accentuate the importance of investment for the future development of our company. The second and last principle is that it is very easy to give and very difficult to save. And since most are always on the handout side, there must be at least someone who accentuates savings and fights waste. I believe I am far from alone in this, but it is good for the President of the Republic to support this tendency. I remember saying to my good friend Pavel Dostál, who was then Minister of Culture: "Pavle, with the money you want in the budget, your resort could manage even a trained foxterier, while a skilled manager can be recognized by the fact that he can manage with a limited amount of resources. " Now, let me fill these two principles. As far as investment is concerned, I cannot say that I am quite enthusiastic, but I recognise that the situation has improved against the past, when our economy was heavily underinvested. As far as waste is concerned, I'm not thrilled because it goes on. I will try not to delay you for long, at least three specific examples. Example one, which I have been pointing out for several years. Our Republic spends more than CZK 40 billion annually on subsidies for renewable resources, of which 26 billion from the Ministry of Industry and Trade budget. To compare, if we could cancel these subsidies and give renewable sources to a market conformal environment, in five years we would have the money to build one nuclear block, one of the largest planned investments. I'm glad the law team started working. We are looking together for ways to legitimately limit these subsidies, whether in the form of overcompensation, solar taxes and other instruments. Example two, wasted. Well, we have an information society here, and therefore information systems. And if you read the SAO's report, for example, you will find that the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has paid CZK 1 billion 200 million for three information systems in its department, none of which works. So I recognise the importance of computerization, but I would like it to be done professionally and not in a way that rather resembles tunneling. [[9.10 hours]] Example three, i.e. the penultimate. Well, it's nice to have so many officers. Not civil servants. State officials I'm talking about. Attempts to reduce their numbers are somewhat unsatisfactory so far. Perhaps also because sometimes individual resorts consider the number of their employees as a statutory symbol. I would like to appreciate that Minister Maláčová has taken the first good step by abolishing the Further Education Fund with 650 employees. I don't know, colleagues, which one of you has ever heard anything about this fund, I haven't. Maybe it's a typically Parkinsonian institution that feeds on itself. The Prime Minister had doubts as to whether the 650 people would actually be released. Madam Secretary assured me that she would keep 50 and 600 released. Well, it's true, as usual, somewhere in the middle. For they will take part of their wages on the obstacles and half a year, because the service law that I have rightly vetoed, and you have outvoted me, is hindering this dismissal. And I think it's time to get back to the amendment to this service bill. The very last example is inclusion. Yes, please, Katka Valachová, to give me a nice smile, but what I say won't please her. A few years ago, I myself was a soldier in a field that condemned inclusion, today the forces are roughly balanced. So in terms of the state budget, the first bullet in the inclusion was one billion, the second one was two billion and the third one was four billion. I would like to remind you that, for example, the regions lack four billion crowns to repair second- and third-class roads, which is undoubtedly an investment expenditure. Is inclusion an investment, such as investing in people? I'll take the liberty of doubting that. And since I'm coming to the conclusion, I'm only going to give you two reasons, even if there are about ten reasons. The first reason is that in special classes or schools the number of pupils with mental disability per teacher is twice as low as in normal classes, while there are teachers with special qualifications for this type of pupils. The second argument, I'll skip those nine others, is that an inclusive child in a normal class loses the most valuable thing in life, and that's the joy of success. Because it will always be the last one, while it can always excel in a special class, it can always be first in something and enjoy it. And if that wasn't enough, the last sentence would be enough. I have studied in detail the methodological guidelines of the Ministry of Education for inclusion. There I found a sentence that reads: "The disabled child, along with his teaching assistant, should be separated from the other children by the screen. " So I don't feel that the screen would be an effective tool for socializing inclusive children, regardless of the fact that instead of socializing these children, they are more likely to be bullied. My mother, a teacher, once said that child cruelty is the greatest and that it overcomes the cruelty of adults. My fellow Members, I was present at the meeting of the government on the budget, and they made me very happy when the government voted unanimously. And when the Minister of Finance managed to reduce the state budget deficit from CZK 50 to CZK 40 billion. It is a managerial art, both the Minister and, on the one hand, I recognise, the Prime Minister. On the other hand, I do not agree that the deficit is not as important as the real deficit, for two reasons. Firstly, the planned deficit is part of the law. Secondly, when the deficit is too large, we risk that the demands of ministers will rise significantly towards that trained foxterier. So I intercede for this, although I fully acknowledge that the real cashier's implementation of the state budget really is more important, I intercede for the planned deficit to be gradually reduced in the coming years. We would all welcome it to fall faster, but since there are still elections, I fear that this reduction would be at the expense of investment and not at the expense of consumption. So, if I may add my support to the bill on the state budget, do I do so with this speech and these arguments, with the fact that if, for example, a Member or a Member dares to abolish inclusion costs, I almost feel, Katka - have you fainted? [[to Ms Valachi]] Not yet. I almost feel that this would pay off not only from the point of view of the budget, but also from the point of view of the arguments that I have put forward. Dear fellow Members, I would like to conclude by wishing you a peaceful and relaxing Christmas, a happy and merry new year, even to the absent Miroslav Kalousek. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause and votes from the Chamber that the Member is present.]] He's there? I'm sorry, I missed it. I thought Mirek was sitting in the middle row of the bench, and now I see he's moved to this edge. That's why I wish him one more time just to be sure. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u3	Thank you to the President of the Republic. [[The President is leaving the O.R.]] [[9.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. For today's day is the first fixed item number 1, the draft law on the state budget. After discussing it, we would focus on the fixed item 173. Let me remind you that at 12.45 we have fixed points 135, 136 and 137. Before starting this point, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš asked with priority right to speak. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak briefly to the budget. After my speech I will apologize because I am going to visit Great Britain, where I will have bilateral meetings with British Prime Minister Theresa Mayová, and tonight the Czech Republic is holding a gala concert of the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra for 100 years of Czechoslovakia, the Czech Republic. We want to express our thanks to the UK for 100 years of our successful cooperation. The Government is submitting to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic the state budget for 2019 with a request for its support. I believe that this budget will improve our citizens' lives and will also help entrepreneurs and businessmen. It assumes that the country's debt will not grow, that we will invest in the necessary projects and important priorities such as education, health, living standards of seniors, science and research, and other areas where it will return to the Czech Republic in the future. Investment in infrastructure and education is crucial for the future of the Czech Republic. According to the draft budget presented, the capital expenditure, the President's favourite theme, will amount to 79.4 billion from national sources. CZK and together with the money from European funds, the government proposes that a total of CZK 122 billion go into investment. CZK, that's almost 32 billion. CZK more than this year. The proposal creates conditions for sufficient investment in transport infrastructure, hospitals, restoration of cultural monuments, construction of nursery schools, railway stations, apartments and many other areas that affect the life of each of us. It is a budget that wants our economy to remain competitive, not lagging behind, but rather being modern and giving direction. Therefore, we propose that expenditure on research, development and innovation should rise to a total volume of 42.1 billion. CZK, and their share of GDP reached 0.8%. Only national resources account for 36 billion. CZK, which represents an increase of 1.2 billion compared to this year's budget. Investments in development and innovation have a significant multiplier effect and are investments in future generations. The strategy of our economy, our industry must be science, research, innovation and final production. And it's not just future generations. The budget must also think of today's burning problems. That is why it pursues and fulfils the long-term objective, I believe that all Members in this House, which is an improvement in the life situation of 2.5 million. seniors living in our country. From 1 January 2019 the old-age pension will increase by CZK 918 on average. A further CZK 1,000 per month is approved for pensioners over 85 years of age. The average old-age pension will thus amount to CZK 13 286 after the increase. The path proposed by the government, i.e. the valorisation of old-age pensions by CZK 918, means almost twice as much valorization as in 2018, it was CZK 475, three times more valorization than it was on 1 January 2017, it was CZK 308, and, to remind you, more than twenty times as much valorization as the Nečasův government approached in 2014, it was CZK 45. Annual pension spending is growing at a record rate of 38.1 billion. CZK 472.5 billion. CZK, which the anticipated proposal provides. That's almost a third of our budget expenditure. Supporting this budget means supporting the more dignified lives of seniors for their lifelong work and care for their families and loved ones. The government also wants to improve the standard of living economically active by this budget. Expenditure on the salaries of employees paid from the state budget will increase by almost 30 billion. Kč. Salary growth will not be across the board, but will range from 7.3 to 15.9 per cent per profession. And regional education is a priority for us, which is why there will be an increase in salaries for teachers by 15 per cent and 10 per cent in regional education and non-teaching workers. For other employees, the highest percentage increase will concern civil servants of the state prosecutors' offices 15.9 and 13.9 courts. The tariff salaries of other employees paid from the state budget will rise by 5%. I do not want to talk further about the budget and its main revenue and expenditure items. Certainly the Minister of Finance, who has worked very hard on the budget and reduced the deficit from 50 billion. At 40 against the plan, he'll be introduced. I would just argue once again that one thing is a plan, and the other thing is a result. Since 2016, when we have had a significant surplus budget, we have de facto balanced the budget. And 22. 10th of this year, the surplus was 6.3 billion, even if the plan is minus 50. The result is important, and we, of course, budget includes European money and, of course, mainly Czech money, so it is very difficult to plan European money for various reasons. 'Cause we've got these programs that the D.O.D.'s guessing something, but it's often different in the finals. Sometimes we have problems with programmes, with the European Union, so if we were planning especially Czech money and European money in this regard, we would certainly plan very precisely. A little summary. Record investment, mostly in education, science, research. And I think that's what everyone in this House wants, all the political parties and the movement. I'm sure we'll all agree that this is an investment in the future. The important thing is that our government is following up on the past government, which is trying to present and present the budget economically, the government's debt is low and stable. I have my favorite tablet with me. [[It shows the table to ministers and Members.]] I'll show it to you again. If anyone wants to say so, it's clear here that state debt has been falling ever since 2014. And this year, 32.2% will drop from last year to 30.6 percent. We are one of the best in Europe. By the way, ratings are also important within the rankings when we keep climbing. We are 11th place in Europe with regard to ratings. The countries - Denmark, Germany, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Sweden, Austria, Finland, France, United Kingdom, Belgium, but behind us are Estonia, Ireland, Slovakia, Malta, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovenia, Spain, Italy, Bulgaria, Hungary, Portugal, Romania, Cyprus, Croatia, Greece. We are clearly the best in our region and we are still rising in those rankings. Recently, we have been evaluated as one of the most stable economies in Europe. We were in third place. [[9.30 hours]] So I really think the results are very good. We have a clear vision, we have a clear programming statement from the government. I'm sure the budget will be criticised. Personally, I'm not saying we don't have reserves. Yes, we have the legacy that the President spoke of, renewable resources. We're trying to figure this out. But we have some laws, some obligations, and it's complicated. I'm sure we have information systems sometimes that we have 20 years there, too. But we're also reducing the number of officials, and I don't think we're saying there are no reserves, there are certainly reserves. And I firmly believe that our ministers will try to reduce the operating costs of their ministries. So, in conclusion, I would like to ask you to support the draft budget, which I'm sure the Secretary of Finance will be commenting all day. And unfortunately, I have to apologize from the debate. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u5	I thank the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Andrea Babiš. [[Let's hear it.]] Let me make some progress. I have an application from my colleague Michálek, who has been filed for a factual remark. I couldn't give it to him because we're out of the debate. But the priority right, if you ask him, Mr President, of course you will be given outside the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u6	Thank you. Since the point hasn't started yet, if I'm not mistaken, so we're off the agenda, I just wanted to say one sentence: thank you to the President for his performance. I listened carefully, he was consistent. He basically gave a very similar speech to last time. However, I wanted to invite him to a debate with us by Members who are not doing so. I am convinced that the debate is about dialogue, not a series of monologues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u7	Thank you. We have 9.32 hours, thus exceeding the time under the Rules of Procedure Act, when it is possible to change the order of the approved points. So if anyone is interested, of course I can open the debate. Unless, of course, there is an objection to the President's procedure. So, please, if there's no objection, I'll give you room to read any changes to the agenda. [[Mr Bartoň reporting from the position]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. I was registered in writing before nine o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you again with a request for a fixed inclusion of paragraph 175. This is a review of the implementation of the resolution on the increase in salaries that we voted on yesterday. However, the vote then did not go by one vote, and subsequently one Member said that she wanted to vote in favour. I'd like to propose a solid inclusion for Thursday 25. 10. as the second point after the fixed point number 177. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u9	Yes, I would remind you that my colleague, Lukáš Bartoň, submitted this application to change the agenda at 9.07 a.m. So it was presented in time, but I knew I had to ask any objections to the President's procedure. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Hello. I have no objection to your procedure, I object to your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. It is simply not true that if priority rights have been exercised since 9 pm, that at 9.32 we can argue that changes to the program are being loaded. Next time, anyone with priority rights could come up with that, speak for 30 minutes, and none of the Members would have the right to propose a change to the programme. So you're doing the right thing, just the interpretation that 9.32, when the prior rights were that it's past the legal time, it just isn't right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-24-ps2017-020-02-000-000.u11	Okay, thank you. We have one suggestion for a change that we're going to be making, and then I'm going to open point one. On request from the O.R., I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your identification cards and we will vote on the proposal by Lukáš Bartoň to reschedule the approved item number 175 Checking the performance of the increase in teacher salaries as second item after item 177, Thursday 25. 10. Yes? Did everyone understand the proposal? The number of entries is stable. I've started the vote on order number 46 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 46 of 149 present for 64, against 50. The motion was not accepted. So we'll continue on the agenda, and I'll open item number
