ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government. With the replacement card number 7, Mr Bartoš votes, with the replacement card number 2, Mr Ondřej Polanský votes. I'd rather say it right from the start than forget it. Initiating the next day of the adjourned 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm going to ask you to settle down in your seats, sign up with your ID cards, or tell me, as colleagues, who votes with the replacement card. Let's start with apologies. I declare that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence: Petr Dolínek within 15 hours - working reasons, František Elfmark - family reasons, Petr Gazdík - working reasons, Tomáš Hanzel from 15.30 to 16.30 - working reasons, Milan Hnilička - working reasons, Milan Chovanec - health reasons, Ivan Jáč - foreign trip, Jiří Kobza - foreign trip, Patrik Nacher from 17.00 to 20.00 - working reasons, Ivo Pojezný - working reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg - health reasons, Lubomír Španěl - health reasons, Helena Válková - health reasons. The members of the government apologize Andrej Babiš - foreign trip, Jan Kněžínek - health reasons, Jana Maláčová from 16:00 - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - foreign trip, Miroslav Toman - foreign trip. I'm going to ask you really to calm down in the hall so we know what we're going to vote on for the changes to the agenda. First of all, I want to introduce you to the suggestions on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose to exclude from the approved agenda: item 3 already firmly assigned to 13. 11. and paragraph 118, House printing 170, Internet accessibility, 2nd and 3rd reading. Furthermore, paragraph 115, House printing 138, on personal data, 3rd reading, and point 116, House printing 139, personal data and related laws, 3rd reading. The points were firmly placed on Wednesday 14. 11. Furthermore, paragraph 117 of the House press 136, criminal record, 3rd reading. That was for elimination. We also propose Wednesday 14. 11. discuss the 3rd reading in this order: paragraph 121, House press 183, paragraph 124, House press 263, paragraph 120, House press 169, paragraph 123, House press 175, paragraph 119, House press 188. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes a firm inclusion of the election point 181, which was included on Wednesday 14. 11, before lunch break at 1:10 p.m. This is all information from the Gremium and after discussing the fixed points for today's meeting we would continue points from the 1st reading block - laws or other items approved by the program. An overview of the remaining points has been distributed to you on the bench. [[There's noise in the room.]] I have two applications on the agenda at this time, with priority rights, President Faltýnek, then President Okamura, then President Kováčik - three. So once again, I'm going to ask you to calm down in the hall and ask President Faltýnek to present his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Mr President. Allow me to make the following proposal on behalf of our parliamentary club. I tried to find some consensus on the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, unfortunately I managed only 95 percent and did not pass as a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies. So I would like to make the following proposal, which concerns Tuesday 13 today. 11, 2:00 p.m. This means, as the first point number 18, it is a bill on social services, second reading, it is a press 160. As second item number 12, print 50, free access to information, second reading, so-called contract register. And as the third item in point 56, print 217, amendment to the Act on Elections, first reading, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, the so-called correspondence option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u3	Thank you. Another with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Okamura. With the replacement card number 10, Mr Munzar votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose as an extraordinary item a government meeting report on its position on the so-called global pact on migration. The discussion and information of the government on the long-term strategy on these issues on the international stage, i.e. in the UN and Brussels, should be included. As we know, the Czech governments have been discussing these issues abroad for years and in truth, our representatives often behave differently outside than at home. Global then about migration and refugees is based directly on the so-called New York Declaration, which was approved by representatives of the Czech Government 19. 9. 2016 and then, with the participation of our representatives, the forthcoming text of the migration pact was prepared. I would like to quote a few of the key points to which the Czech Government has already committed us in New York 2016: Ensure that all children, regardless of whether they are refugees or migrants, will have access to education within a few months of arrival in the host country. Furthermore, to find a home for all the refugees designated by the UN High Commissioner's Office as necessary for resettlement and expansion of opportunities. Furthermore, to provide support to the countries that rescue, receive and provide refuge in their territory for a large number of refugees and migrants. Furthermore, condemn xenophobia against refugees and migrants and support the UN's global campaign, which is aimed at xenophobia and racism. I would just like to point out that these fundamental theories, to which the government of the ANO, the CSSD and the KDU-ČSL committed us, or the representatives discussed them in 2016, are indeed, I must say, a very serious matter. And the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Pan mun- after accepting these commitments, means basically legalising illegal migration, the statesmen in 2016, sincerely and honestly congratulated, and I quote: "Today's summit is a breakthrough in our joint efforts to respond to the challenges of human mobility." And I add, thanks to the adoption of the New York Declaration, more children will go to school, more workers will be able to legally look for work abroad. So this is basically what the Czech government agreed to. The movement YES, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL committed themselves to this in New York in 2016. In simple words, the aim of all these treaties is to strengthen migration, to legalise it. These are clearly invitations to hundreds of millions of poor people on the planet. It is seemingly touching when schools guarantee the children of the entire planet, but in practice it means only one thing: the parents of millions of Afričan, arab, and Asiat have been informed that their children are provided with education in our countries and their parents work. And who doesn't like it from rich countries is an ugly xenophobe with whom the UN and all the signatories have started a fight. And the Czech governments, the governments of the ANO, the ČSSD and the people's movement, have happily agreed on the international scene in the recent past. [[Strong noise in the hall. The President is asking for peace.]] Of course, the remarkable Czech government's domestic highs are astonished, both at home and abroad. Tomáš Jungwirth, of the Association for International Affairs, recently remarked with these words: "The whole time the Czech Republic has been cooperating with other countries without problems." That means legalizing illegal migration. "It's a little startling for me that, after the final text of the compact has been negotiated, the statement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has appeared, which actually challenges this whole two-year process." End of quote. Of course, I would also be surprised when the government is essentially promoting the legalisation of migration, and suddenly after two years, it's like verbally starting to say something else. [[14.10 hours]] Prime Minister Andrej Babiš refused to sign the global migration pact a few days ago. We thank him both for the SPD and for the citizens of the Czech Republic and wish him and the government to maintain their opinional highshow as long as possible. Not only in the European elections, for which government parties are now correcting their long-term, truly anti-national and Brussels positions. In this respect, it should be noted that European elections will be very important. Although the Czech government today suddenly rejects the immigration conventions, it is possible that this is just a political tactic to calm Czech citizens before the elections. As we know, Brusel, if it doesn't go through the door, they'll try to push migrants through the window. And if it doesn't go through the window, it puts it in the chimney. This brings us not only a global pact on UN migration, but also a new Dublin, i.e. a change in asylum rules, and, of course, Brussels is looking for other, far more hidden paths. One of them is the effort not to allow those unpleasant promotional agreements to be approved by national governments, because it really undermines the electoral results important for maintaining the EU's promotional leadership. Therefore, the European Commission has long sought to become a Contracting Party to both pacts throughout the EU. It was supported by the European Parliament in this intention. In paragraph 2 of Resolution 2018/2642, MEPs called on the governments of the Member States - I quote - 'to unite in the name of the EU's single position and to actively defend and support negotiations on the important issue of the UN's global pacts on safe, managed and legal migration and refugees'. End of quote. The European Union as a whole could become a contracting party to both documents if Member States gave the European Commission a mandate to sign. Under the official rules laid down by the Treaty of Lisbon, such a step should be carried out within the framework of the so-called 'the Treaty'. a common foreign and security policy, i.e. at the Council of Foreign Ministers or at the European Council, which is the summit of the Heads of State or Government of the EU. We should not be comforted that the mandate should be agreed by all votes unanimously. Brussels has missed this condition a few times in the past. For example, the EU signed the rámcový Convention on Tobacco Control for us despite the veto in the Czech Senate. And she officially justified this as the first trial use of the then-established common foreign and security policy. Simply put, with the preparation of the Pact on Migration for Refugees, Brussels is preparing alternative solutions to circumvent national governments' decisions. In Brussels, the Czech Republic has representatives who not only know about this tactic, but most likely prepare these tactics because they are invented for us. More specifically, against us. They are not only MEPs but our people who work in the European Commission. I apologize, my fellow Members, for an inaccurate term. They are not our people, but the people who are governed and tasked by the Czech government. Sorry. Again, an inaccurate term. They are being tasked today by the government movement YES and ČSSD. Last year, they were human beings. Two months ago, September 19, we were discussing our proposal to withdraw from the UN Global Pact on Migration, and this withdrawal was rejected by all parties except the SPD. As I have already said, I thank some government politicians for having changed their minds. On the other hand, the entire history of negotiations around all international agreements, which in some way undermine our sovereignty and go clearly against the interest of our country and our nation, shows that Czech governments and most Czech representatives in Brussels have never properly defended Czech interests. If the views of the members of the ANO and the ČSSD have indeed changed and have joined the SPD honestly, I am grateful for that. And I will be grateful if my colleagues convince us of their sincerity with real deeds. That is why I am asking you to put an extraordinary item on the agenda of this House meeting, just as we put it in September. And let me just remind you that in September we set up the government of the ANO movement, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, to introduce us to the Chamber of Deputies by 15 November with the Government's position on the UN global pact. So November 15th is this week. I don't know if any of the other parties have received any government opinion. We didn't get it. But as the House, we have committed the government to introduce us to the position by 15 November. So basically from this point of view, I would like to ask you to support the inclusion of this extraordinary point in order to give the government the opportunity to introduce us to the position that we, as the House, have committed the government to by majority vote. So I'm suggesting we put this as the fifth point today, because we have four fixed points already. And let me make this clear - it would be an extraordinary point called the Government Report on its position on so-called. a global pact on migration, in accordance with the House resolution, which we... we set up the government in September. And the result would be that we really need the government to withdraw from the UN's global migration pact, like the US, Hungary, or Austria did. And, of course, I wish that all Members in the House would really change their previous immigration positions here at home and abroad, in Brussels and the UN. And now I'd like to specify when I'd like to include it. I'd have two suggestions. First, to make it the fifth point today, because we already have four points firmly placed. But since I know that the chairman of the ANO Faltýnek movement here has suggested that they put points first, and I assume they have 78 votes, it could pass, and there are some suggestions from the Gremia, so as a second proposal, it would be - after all the firmly placed points that the House will approve today, so let's put it there, so no one will mind, so that no one can make excuses for having any more important points. Once again, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support this point, because we ourselves, the Chamber of Deputies, have determined to give us a report by 15 November. And we didn't get it. I don't suppose anybody got it. So it is necessary to discuss this briefly in order for the government to introduce us to vote for the House of Resolutions so that the Government can comply with the House's resolution in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u5	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. Then Prime Minister Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Government, Madames and gentlemen. Three minor announcements to the program. One suggestion. The first one is please nice, if I have heard wrong, so excuse me, but I object to the designation of the pro-migration party from the mouth of my colleague Okamura, because everyone, except for the SPD, calls them pro-migration. We're not a pro-migration party. And I want it to be said here. Not just towards you, but towards the public. Two. The proposal Mr. Faltýnek made, so I say yes, of course. However, as the fourth point for Mr Faltýnek's proposals, I propose to include paragraph 10, print 38. It is the completion of the interrupted point, which we called the taxation of church restitutions. We're interrupting before the end of the second reading, so we can finish today. And the third thing. This is a minor comment on the proposal for the inclusion of paragraph 12, press 50, at the 19th meeting of 19 September. Mr Koten, President of the Security Committee, has proposed, and I will quote him from the screen record: "Dear ladies, gentlemen, Mr President, on the ground that the Constitutional Court's finding to the House press is not yet available. 50 on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of certain contracts and the register of contracts, as amended, amending the laws of 106/1999 Coll. and Act 340/2015 Coll., I propose that this item be removed from the agenda until the position of the Constitutional Court is known." I feel like this proposal has been approved, but please, if I misunderstood, I'm sorry. It voted in favour of this motion, if you want to know how much... the proposal was accepted. 52 Members, 15 Members of the ODS, none of the Pirates, 17 Members of the SPD, 11 Members of the CSSD, 14 Members of the KSČM, 7 Members of the KDU-ČSL, and that is all. 116 Members voted in total. So I'm not making it seem like I'm having some kind of doubt. It's just that we're actually putting something here, and we don't have, as far as I know, the Constitutional Court's position so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u7	Thank you. Before I give the floor to President Chvojka - according to the information I have at my disposal, we finally voted on the elimination of second and third readings. Well, not on that condition. Furthermore, we voted on exclusion from a specific meeting and did not vote on exclusion from other meetings. I think that is why Mr Faltýnek's proposal is possible and voteable. Then maybe more personally, so we don't have to go over the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u8	I'm sorry, I just expressed some doubt that the condition of the delivery of the Constitutional Court's findings was not met. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u9	Yes. We eliminated him from the meeting, we fulfilled that, plus the condition of the vote itself - it is not so recorded that it was there, but it is possible to discuss it at the next meeting. It's an interpretation I've checked with the relevant union. Furthermore, President Chvojka, then President Kalousek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to veto on behalf of two MPs, that is to say the CSSD Club and the ANO Movement Club, a proposal from my colleague, Vice-President Okamura, to include the report on migration. As my colleague Kováčik said, I think there is no immigrant party, but we, that means both the CSSD and the ANO movement, think that we need to discuss more important points in these two days of a proper meeting, e.g. increasing the care allowance in third and fourth grade or teacher's salaries. That means we don't want to place this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u11	Thank you. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. I have a great request through the President to the Vice-President Okamura. He said that our diplomacy, our workers never defended Czech national interests. Since we have never been able to define it across the political spectrum of Czech national interests, we simply cannot say it like that and please do not say it. Let us admit with a great deal of tolerance, which is owned by Members of TOP 09, that I and Vice-President Okamura are both Čech, members of the Czech nation. Nevertheless, I believe that our priorities for national interests are very different. So we can say whether diplomacy fulfils or does not fulfil the foreign policy of the Czech government, which is responsible for this, or you or those priorities, but none of us can afford to say whether or not they are promoting Czech national interests, if we rely exclusively on our own program, because our programs are somewhat different in this, for example. in our case and in the case of SPD diametrically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-13-ps2017-020-09-000-000.u13	Thank you. I don't see anyone else with priority rights logged in. Mr Koníček withdrew his application because his proposal was identical to that made by President Kováčik. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking on the agenda. If this is not the case, then we will deal with the individual proposals as they were made. First of all, we will vote on the proposals from the Gremium, as I have put them, that is to say, elimination of points 3, 115, 117 and discussion on Wednesdays, paragraphs 121, 124, 120, 123, 119 and the fixed classification of Election Point 181 to 13.10 before midday break 14. 11. One more time. Voting on aGremial proposal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 201, registered 183, for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on President Faltýnek's proposals for the inclusion of points 18, 12 and 56 for the introduction today, on Tuesday 13. 11. I'm asking if anyone's objecting. [[Response to the comment from the surroundings:]] So, we will vote on each proposal separately. First of all, paragraph 18, House press 160, on social services, as the first item in today's negotiations. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 202, registered is 184, for 179, versus 2. This proposal was adopted. We will also vote on the inclusion of the second item in today's meeting, paragraph 12, register of treaties, House press 50. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point. Who's against it? Voting number 203, registered 184, for 114, versus 49. This proposal was adopted. Next, we will vote on the inclusion of paragraph 56, House press 217, on the elections following paragraph 12. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 204, to which 183 is logged in, for 159, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We cannot vote on the proposal from Vice-President Okamura because of the veto of two parliamentary clubs. And now we will vote on the inclusion of item number 10, House press 38, the church restitution which should follow according to President Kováčik's proposal after these three points, which we have just agreed to. That means point 56 would be followed by point 10. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 205, registered is 184, for 115, against 53. This proposal was adopted. We have dealt with all the proposals that have been made here today. Thank you. Let me read again the apology of Mr Jiří Běhounek, who apologizes from 15.00 to 17.30 for the reasons of work for today's meeting, and from 16.00 to the end of the day, Minister Dan Ťok apologizes for the reasons of work. We'll continue with the approved agenda, and I'm opening item number 18, which is
