ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u1	18. Draft of the Pardubice Region's representative for the Act amending Act No. 500/2004 Sb., Administrative Code, as amended / House print 54/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 54/1. I welcome Mr. Governor of the Pardubice Region, Martin Netolický, among us. Hello, Mr. Governor. It shall also state this proposal under the authority of the council. And thank you, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, who is rapporteur for the first reading, has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table, and I can begin the point. Mr. Governor, as soon as the situation in the hall calms down and colleagues discussing the issue of Act No. 500, they'll transfer to the foyer... [[There's still noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace so that the Governor of Netolický can bring about a change in the administrative order in a dignified atmosphere. Thank you. Mr. Governor, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, very briefly after such an important point, to mention our rather simple but extremely important amendment to the administrative order, namely, Section 14, which concerns bias. This problem, which is experienced by our public administration throughout the period when the combined model of local government is applied to us, is in practice called the problem of so-called systemic bias, when local authorities decide on the matters of the municipality where they are employees of the municipal authority, i.e. the municipal authority. Because this problem is really very complex and is often discussed at the level of the courts - we have several Supreme Administrative Court judicatures, and even the Supreme Administrative Court had an opinion on this issue when it first claimed in its enlarged Senate in 2004 that it was no bias and law, virtually. At the same time, the legislator based the territorial administration on the so-called "public administration." The combined model, where the local authorities exercise a delegated and separate scope, had to assume that such cases would occur. On the other hand, in 2012, however, he had already corrected his position and expressed his bias de facto. [[11.40 hours]] We, as local authorities, have spoken to the Ministry of the Interior on this subject as the Gesture Ministry and we have come to the view that it is necessary to open this debate once and for all, and we are opening it with this very proposal that we have tabled. I want to say that this proposal has been discussed at the level of the Association of Regions and in this individual council adopted a resolution that supports our proposal, namely the proposal of the Pardubice Region. I think that's enough for the opening word. The amendment is quite simple, but I stress that it is extremely important for the entire system of functioning of territorial public administration in our country, i.e. for municipalities and regions. And, of course, I beg all of you to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u3	I thank the Governor Martin Netolický and ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, to present her news report. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u5	Not yet. I will interrupt you, colleague, before you begin. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to have the rapporteur present her intelligence report. If you are discussing a subject other than the rules of procedure, please be in the foyer. If you want to discuss the issue of the Administrative Rules, sign up for the debate. Thank you. You can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, the proposer has already discussed the reasons for the proposal. The proposed amendment seeks to resolve the neglected adjustment of systemic bias. It responds to the practice and current case law of the Supreme Administrative Court, specifying the prerequisites for expressing the bias of an official. In the proceedings, it is argued that the employer is interested in the outcome of the procedure, as the fine is the income of his budget. It is also argued, for example, that the competent official receives a salary from the municipality, the state and the like, which is why he is biased. According to the submitted proposal of bias, there is no service or employment relationship or any other similar relationship with the State or regional self-governing body. The adoption of the proposed adjustment should result in a significant decrease in the objections of bias, in particular the objections of systemic bias, which will result in a more efficient and faster decision-making by the administrative authorities. The Government's position on this proposal is neutral. In its opinion, the Government draws attention to the facts that should be taken into account and considers the proposed adjustment to be insufficient. Despite the Government's neutral position, I recommend that the proposal be submitted for further reading, with the possibility of finding an adjustment that would reflect the difficulties set out in the Government's position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u7	I thank the rapporteur for her intelligence report. I'm opening the debate. Mrs Vildumetzová is the first to be logged in, and I am giving her the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, Mr Governor, fellow Members, dear colleagues, allow me to comment on House press number 54, on the issue of so-called systemic bias, which is the representative of the Pardubice Region. The aim of this amendment is to resolve the problem of so-called systemic bias, so that this institute is no longer a frequent reason for the emergence of procedural obstructions, as is the case so far, most often in building procedures and environmental management. The submitted amendment to the Administrative Rules and the solution to the problem of systemic bias, which should result in a reduction in the number of cases of transfer to the competent authorities other than those originally locally, which will result in a more efficient and faster decision-making by the administrative authorities. The Government, as has been said, has taken a neutral position on the proposal, but identifies with the aim of addressing the issue of so-called systemic bias within the administrative order, but does not consider the text to be sufficient. The Ministry of the Interior, which has this law in its competence, supports the proposal that the objections raised can be dealt with in the course of the legislative process. This position has been confirmed according to the information I have, as well as at the meeting with Mr. Governor Netolický at the Ministry of Interior on 12 February 2018. Dear colleagues, the text of the bill was approved unanimously by the Council of the Association of Regions, as has been said. The majority of the regions have joined this legislative initiative with the resolution of their representatives and have the support of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. Finally, let me say that we certainly all wish that the administrative procedure should be swift and effective, and I am convinced that this is what our citizens want. The lengthy procedures are incomprehensible to them and inexplicable to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u9	Thank you, Mrs Vildumetzová. And we continue the debate, Mr Adamec reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u10	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I welcome this initiative by the regions and the Pardubice Region, of course, because it may not look like that at first sight, but the systemic bias has become such a problem I would say. And what my colleague Vildumetzová said here is absolutely not true that some citizens want these controls to be quick, effective. Just because they don't want it, that's how they act, let's face it. Let me give you an example. The city of Dvůr Králové nad Labem, and I hope that I can speak freely here, asked the city of Trutnov, the environmental department, to decide instead of their environmental department that the city could cut down the alley of trees, which simply hindered, were in an inadequate state, just because it feared systemic bias. So it's really about the fact that we have types of citizens in our cities, in our regions, who just don't want these administrative proceedings to take place in a legally short time, because they are fighting against those decisions, often very unsystemically, for me incomprehensiblely, for a number of of of us who are in communal politics, incomprehensible, but unfortunately, we have them here and need to remove this once and for all. I have to say, it's really a problem. But the other situation is, and I want to point out, it happened in one unnamed county town, so take it away where the city, the magistrate wanted to reconstruct his big square. Well, of course, not everyone's a proponent of the reconstruction. We citizens do, because when you get there, you feel that in some places you can break your leg, in the evening, when you come from visiting some restaurant facility, it's really about life and health. Well, unfortunately, the systemic bias fell there, and the court ruled that it was okay, because unfortunately the official in question, maybe he was an elected deputy, maybe he was the mayor, maybe he was the mayor, I don't want to make him look bad, he wrote to the head of the building office, and he said they needed it, something in this spirit, that it's beautiful, that it would be necessary, but, of course, the court decided against the magistrate, because, of course, the mayor, the mayor can't do this at all. As far as legal proceedings go, forget it, local politicians, you can say something about it. Forget it! As you do, you're putting yourself out not only on trial, but even criminal penalties! That's completely different! And precisely because these cases were multiplying, the first type, where it doesn't really have any logic, because years ago we said here that we wanted a mixed model of public administration, that is, self-government, the performance of the government is in one office, whether it's the authority of the city or whether it's the county, his office. [[11.50 hours]] So this needs to be treated, because I really think it's unsystemic, it's expensive, unnecessary tedious. And then we could also look forward to one such model that our administrative offices located in the building of our office, whether the city or the region, will process the problems of other regions, other municipalities. And ladies and gentlemen, let's face it, do either of us want this? I don't think so. Let's back it up and move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u11	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc for his speech, and I ask who else is joining the debate. I see no one, so I can end the debate. [[Votes from the diaper indicate that MP Michalek is reporting.]] aha, sorry, Mr. Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I applied in writing, but apparently it didn't bubble up on the board. [[I don't have it here.]] So I signed up with my hand. To me, this solution to the problem of systemic bias, which the Constitutional Court points out, seems like we're going to pretend that there is no bias. Many of you have been sitting in those offices of the city, regional and all of you know very well that whoever is at the head of the community is also tasked with the secretary, or whoever is at the head of the magistrate, the mayor, is tasked with the director of the city or the regional office, the captain is tasked. And then this man is at the head of the office itself, which he is in charge of. Of course, it cannot be tasked in the area of separate competence. But how does it work really? When he sets him a reward? [[Mrs Vildumetz disagrees with the gesture.]] Well, I'm sorry, it can't be the task of delegation in the area of state administration, it's obviously forbidden, but sometimes it's not even necessary in real life, and many of you sitting there know that you just have to look at it properly, and officials often do it even more eagerly than when you don't do it at all. So the very fact that the clerk is being paid to a total self-governing person who also decides in his own cause is absolutely unacceptable. There they even quote in the explanatory memorandum cases that the Office is in charge of criminal proceedings, the municipal authority is in charge of criminal proceedings in which the municipality itself is accused. And other cases, which I read, of course, are the most important ones for which it is done, are those construction procedures where the municipality wants to build something and decides in the construction process, in which there are other participants, of course, the so-called normal citizens. So, of course, the equality of the parties is not maintained there at all if there is such concentration. I think that this really is not a matter that complicates administrative proceedings if it is handled properly, as it should be handled. That means, the moment that the village is performing there, it's going to be passed on to the superior authority, and it's going to order another, let's say, regional authority, and it's going to be dealt with by the other regional authority. And yet it's unacceptable to deny it here with the fact that you don't want to do it because you don't get the money for it. It seems to me that we cannot laugh at those citizens who then appear in proceedings in which another party has a privileged position, because he is also a judge and a party to the proceedings. And that is the basic principle that no one can be a judge or an arbitrator on his own. I think so, I would really like to warn you about this, and I would like to ask that this be explained here. Because I understand that the regions agree that they want to make their own decisions in quotation marks, even if they concern the government, but I am not convinced that this would be in the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u13	So that was Mr Jakub Michálek, and we have five factual points ahead of us. I am asking the rapporteur whether she wants factual or preferential rights. [[Really.]] Mr. Governor Non-tolic: factual or regular? [[Something.]] To the point, well, in that case, the first entry is with the factual remark of the rapporteur Zuzana Ožanová, then Mr Adamec, Stanjura, Krejza, Kupka, Langšádlová, Baxa. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, when you go to court, the judge also takes a salary. He is paid out of state money and can decide on matters where, for example, the state is represented in a case. In essence, the fact that an official takes a salary, that he should be biased for this reason? I'm sorry, this idea seems really absurd to me. For the next one. If my colleague Michálek mentioned misdemeanor proceedings, it would be good to read the new law on offences related to proceedings. There is already an adjustment that in infringement proceedings, if a party to the proceedings is a local authority, is automatically biased and dealt with by someone else. So this legislation does not fall under criminal proceedings. They have special regulations in the representation of local authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, Mr Ivan Adamec. [[Hetman Netolický reporting for word.]] I didn't understand you, Mr. Governor. Did you want the facts as well? Well, in that case, I'll make a point if my colleague Adamec agrees. So, Mr. Governor of Netolický, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely about the fact that I have indicated that a rather simple amendment, but we are touching the very nature of the functioning of the territorial public administration in the Czech Republic. If, after 1848, we basically had this combined model established in our territory and throughout the period of the first Republic until 1949 and then after 1990, we are probably following up on some traditions. The problem of systemic bias has emerged as an interpretational problem arising from several specific cases. The first was in the town of Jičín, I believe in 2001, then in the Nové Město nad Metují. And notice that this is all the Hradec Králové Region. And when I remember Mr. Adamec's performance here, he reminded you of another reason. Because the Regional Court in Hradec Králové then had a very unique interpretation of bias as such, then even under the old administrative order, and then according to the new, now valid administrative order. If we have agreed that the reform of public administration is based on the fact that municipalities and regions also carry out the transferred scope in addition to each other, and the legislator was thinking about this when the law was passed, or all the laws de facto about municipalities, about regions, about the capital city of Prague. It is based on the fact that, in Article 105 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the exercise of the delegation, i.e. the exercise of state administration under the authority of the State, is assumed, that is, constitutionally assumed according to Title VII, where the functioning of the local authorities is precisely defined, so, of course, the legislator had to assume that such matters would occur. And that is why we have raised this battalion, because, by the way, this is a problem with which not only the regions are facing, my colleague, because we as regions decide the dominant part, please, in the second degree, that is already in the context of the appeals procedure. But this is a problem involving 6,250 mayors -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u17	Mr. Governor, I must draw your attention to the facts. So all you have to do is end your speech. [[I'm sorry.]] You can sign up again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u18	I'm sorry, but I think I said the whole thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u19	I will make a point of fact to Mr Ivan Adamc, and then we will interrupt this point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u20	So thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Governor, colleagues, well, I've already said that in my opening speech. I think if we're seriously concerned that this is how it works, whether it's written or not, then let's consider changing the public administration model to separate the state power from the self-governing power. It's the only cleanest way. But you should have yelled at the time it was set up here when there was a reform of the public administration. I understand you weren't here at the time. But there were others who had their experience with it. And this is where the model of the merged public administration really won. And I have one thing to say. Overtaking the authority of a public official is no fun at all. If any of this charges you, as mayor, for affecting the secretary, God forbid... And I would never do that, because when do you know when that secretary will have a crush on you? I would never do that! Because I'd be an idiot, not a mayor! So let's face it, it doesn't work that way. Wherever they do it, that's where they're gonna find out, and then they're hard-core! Let's not be illusioned. [[12.00 hours]] And by the way, the decision-making at the authorities, those in charge of administrative proceedings, isn't a final instance. Another instance is on the verge. And you're telling me that the Hradec Králové Region can't decide in the second instance the problem of misdemeanor proceedings in Trutnov? Of course he can. He sometimes does it in Solomon, but that's for a different debate. So let's pour some pure wine and let's say that there may be some hiccups here, but that's everywhere, in every human activity you always find it but. And it's pretty obvious here. All administrative proceedings, infringement proceedings - mayors, councillors, representatives know very well what awaits them if they were found to have influenced the official responsible for the exercise of state authority, the state administration. Let's not get dramatic. This really is an obstacle to the surrounding communities that have state-type authorities like us, because it's just stalling. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Last sentence. The construction process always takes a year and a half, so it's gonna take two years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-002-018.u21	Do not force me, Mr Member, to violate the Rules of Procedure and the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. It's 12 o'clock. I left you two minutes in one piece, Mr. Colleague. I am interrupting item 18, the period of interruption I basically want to know from the President of the Election Commission, whom I invite to the negotiating table. We will discuss the second round of the second election of the chair of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of GIBS.
