ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u1	196. Oral inhalation Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00. To other members of the government then from 16.00 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I draw attention to all Members of the Government and to those who are intersected, that if the interpelling of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is exhausted, the intersecting of other members of the Government will immediately begin. I now give the floor to Přemysl Mališ, who was drawn in the first place to give an interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. Mr. Lukáš Bartoň will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr President of the Government, in view of the wording of the amendment to the Act on Investment Incentives approved by the Government, and the first reading is prepared in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, I would like to ask you about the main benefits of this proposed amendment for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u3	I, too, thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u4	Thank you for the floor. Hello. The investment incentives, of course, it all has some history. We all remember the Czech route after the revolution, which destroyed our state commercial banks, which then ended up in the Czech Consolidation Agency, and they did not return many entrepreneurs who borrowed money. Then came a foreign trip, which of course is positive, except maybe, I, under the previous government as Minister of Finance, approved one incentive for one company in South Bohemia, and I pointed out that it was not necessary at the time. However, the investment incentive system in the Czech Republic has been operating for 20 years and has undergone a number of changes, such as setting, that remains linked to the need to reduce unemployment, and in the current economic situation, when our country is experiencing a period of economic prosperity and record-low unemployment, we can call such a setup obsolete, and it is therefore necessary to change this existing policy of investment incentives substantially. The current government has already approved the draft amendment to the Investment Incentives Act, which was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in October in the form of a government bill. [[Unintelligible]] It was too late. It was supposed to be done in the past government. It took a long time. Since 2000, we have provided 62.6 billion incentives. Kroner, we've forgiven taxes. The main aim of the proposed regulation is to limit the wide availability of investment incentives and to provide them only in exceptional and justified cases. In particular, quality projects with high added value, accompanied by the creation of qualified jobs, should be supported, ensuring a well-supported establishment with a pre-established wage level. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has made considerable efforts to define precisely this higher added value of supported projects, with practical contributions from the general public. These investments should thus be newly linked to research and development activities carried out either by their own activities or in cooperation with universities or public research institutions. This is the strategy of our economy - science, research, final production. However, due to the need to ensure balanced development throughout the Czech Republic, investment incentives will continue to be available under more moderate conditions for investment projects aimed at economically troubled regions whose development needs to continue to be actively supported. However, at the current level of employment, we are also proposing in these regions to limit the provision of financial contributions to jobs in production due to the reduction of the negative impact on the relocation of workers. The aim of the government bill is also to support Czech companies more. For smaller businesses, which are the domain of domestic entrepreneurs, investment incentives should be better accessible by reducing entry requirements by half compared to the requirements for investment by large enterprises. By reducing accessible entry limits, this support programme should be more open to domestic investors, which will, moreover, continue to be granted a higher level of public support. In order to better respond to the development of the economy, we propose setting specific parameters for supported investment projects under the law, which can respond more flexibly to dynamically changing conditions in the economy. This technical adjustment will improve the flexibility of the investment incentive system and speed up the possibility of adjusting its settings. This sub-legal standard will, for example, provide for a way of demonstrating the already mentioned higher added value at the outset, which is to be linked to the qualification of the work carried out and the use of advanced technologies that respond to the emerging trends in technological innovation and the development of Industry 4.0. The prepared government bill, which is now to be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies, presents a new way of setting investment incentives, which should also be able to respond adequately in the long term to the changing conditions of the economy. Currently prepared setting the conditions clearly aims to promote qualitative sources of sustainable economic growth. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time, Prime Minister.]] It improves the conditions for support for domestic investors and facilitates the conditions for staffing investments by removing requirements to increase pressure on job creation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u5	Thank you. I will ask the Member, he is not interested in an additional question. Let's move on. Mr Lukáš Bartoň, who was drawn in the second place, will be prepared by Mrs Langšádlová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the NSA, the National Sports Agency, and sports promotion laws. As I read in your programming statement on the last page, so the law on promoting sport here you have, you want to change it, you also have the creation of a National Sports Agency. So my question is: why, if this is in the government's programming statement, it is a government priority, it is a government agenda, why is the law on promoting sport being presented as an MP bill, why is it not a government bill? Why is that change? It is a concern that, in this context, you wanted to, or the government wanted to avoid processing the analysis of the RIA in this law, in order to avoid the entire legislative process, including the assessment of this law by the Government Legislative Council. That is why my question is: What about this law, why isn't it a government bill? Alternatively, can we look forward to the fact that other matters to be put forward by the government will be put forward as parliamentary proposals to avoid the legislative process?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u7	Thank you. And I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u8	I'm sure it's not like that. We are the first government to assess all draft laws and opposition objectively, and we do not say a priori that we are opposed if it is proposed by someone from the opposition. I think you've already noticed that. Well, why is that an MP proposal? Because we really gave sport priority. It's a shame we haven't done this since the revolution, that if they know us in the world, they know us through the names of athletes. And unfortunately, sport wasn't given that kind of attention. And we've created the position of the government's sports agent since March 1, 2018, which means during that government that was only supposed to shine and drown. This means that we have committed ourselves to ensuring that the government's sports agent subordinate to the Prime Minister, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, will coordinate the area of State aid for sport and define institutional, financial and legislative parameters for the emergence of a new central authority to which the National Sports Agency is to be the National Sports Agency. The National Sports Agency will comprehensively ensure the implementation of state policy in the area of promoting sport and the movement activities of the population. The reason for the election of the parliamentary amendment was the fact that MŠMT started preparation for the new Act on Sport. Its preparation of admission would certainly take a long time, even a few years. And the technical amendment to the current aid law responded much faster, more efficiently and more flexibly to the situation in sport, taking into account the corruption cases directly at the Ministry of Education and at the same time the very lengthy and criticized writing of individual programmes to promote sport. The SAO's findings also showed that the issue of promoting sport is not addressed correctly at the Ministry of Education, and therefore the government supported the parliamentary initiative of the Government Commissioner for Sport and, at the same time, Milana Hnilička to create an independent entity with its own budget chapter and legal personality independent of the Ministry of Education, which will be fully and completely responsible for the issue of sport. All these circumstances support the chosen path of the technical amendment to the Sport Support Act, whose main objective is the creation of the National Sports Agency and the allocation of sport from the Ministry of Education. The sport budget for 2019 is 8.4 billion, with 7 billion. He's at M.S.A., 600 miles. MMR, 800 miles. to the Ministry of Interior, Defense, to support the resort sports centers. We remember the period when we joined the former coalition government, when the Czech Olympic Committee actually lobbied a de facto levy on one gambling tax and actually created a second power centre next to the Ministry of Education. That's what I canceled back then as Treasury Secretary, with a one-time raise from 4.3, as I recall, to 6 billion. And clearly, we need to have a center. And now we've turned that into the National Sports Agency. The new budget chapter has been created since January 2019 with a zero budget. When the National Sports Agency is established, the funds to promote sport will be transferred from the Ministry of Education to the Agency by budgetary measures. I don't know why you're asking this when, for example, we were doing 40-sixteen, the MP here, Mr. Kolovratník, you all agreed here, and we didn't say the Ministry of Transport would do it. I don't see anything wrong with it. When the Members agree, that's all the better. That's better. We will now address you with lex brexit, for example, which should be completed on January 7. And we're going to invite all the parliamentary parties and the movement and the Senate to prepare and discuss ahead so that we don't waste any time here, because, for example, these are the things that we need to deal with together. So the proposal was submitted 16. 7. by the group of Members. As far as I know, Mr. Hnilička here has informed me that he has spoken to everyone several times. [[Attention on time.]] And the first reading was 31. 10.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u9	There you go. The Member is interested in an additional question. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u10	Thank you for your answer. I take it from here that this is like a parliamentary proposal, because the Ministry of Education would not be able to prepare a similar proposal at an adequate time. That's why you avoided the legislative process through a government proposal. And a follow-up question, please. Since the National Sports Agency will be fully digitized, it will receive applications electronically, issue all decisions electronically, doesn't depend on where it has its registered office - do you support the idea that it should not have its registered office in Prague, but perhaps strengthen some poorer region of the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u11	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, if he answers an additional question. Looks like it will. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u12	I'm always fascinated by the pirát digitalizing, and when you're supposed to deliver us people, you're putting an ad in, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Ferjenčík really showed us today. It brought 10 billion to the EET, otherwise it wouldn't have been in the budget if it hadn't been... I wasn't here then. So we can definitely, we can talk about it. I don't know what it's supposed to be, but a government agent isn't worth a penny. The government doesn't give him anything. And I'm sure we'll be saving. We'll be transparent. And if it's digitized, well, fine, then we can talk about it. And, of course, about the headquarters of the institutions, there was a proposal from STAN, so it's a question of the debate which institutions they can be, because it's about canceling some office in Prague to get that new office somewhere... We can talk about, I don't know, now I think the ERU is in Jihlava and everyone is in Prague. So the mansion is in Jihlava, everyone is in Prague, so it really has some effect. But all we can do is help those regions when we get those highways, which has been hard since the revolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u13	Thank you. And now Mrs Langšádlová will intersect on media literacy. Mr Luzar will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, Monday 4. 12. the annual report of the Security Information Service for 2017 has been published. The report clearly confirms the existence of Czech written disinformation websites, which are used to spread fear, conspiracy theories and disinformation. You know that many of these reports are directed against the government or our membership of the EU and NATO. I believe we agree that many of these false reports have a destructive effect on our society. I consider this situation to be a fundamental strengthening of media literacy and critical thinking. Children must be taught, not only children and young people, but also older generations, how to work with information, with resources, and how to verify information. In this context, it is essential to have a good concept of civil education, including media literacy and education for critical thinking. After all, they accepted this, for example. in Germany, after experience with totalitarian regimes. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you identify with the information that the annual report that talks about the use of disinformation websites is alarming, and you see it as a security risk to our society. And I also wanted to ask why the government still did not discuss in the summer the basic document on the creation of the concept of civil education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Before the Prime Minister gets to the microphone, I'll read the apologies. Mrs Kozlová apologises to us from 14.30 to 18.00, Mrs Maxová also apologizes from 14.30, Mr Koten apologizes from the whole day, Mr Kolářík apologizes from 14.30 for personal reasons, Mr Pošvář apologizes from 15.00 for working reasons and Mr Černohorský apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day due to attending the meeting of the committee of inquiry of OKD. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u16	I'm sure I agree with the Member that misinformation campaigns are a problem. Media education is part of the framework education programmes for basic and gymnasial education. Schools must include it in their school education programmes and implement it in teaching. This is a so-called cross-cutting topic which does not have its separate hourly grant at the level of the framework curriculum. So schools do not need to teach media education as a separate subject, but they can include it in other subjects such as the foundations of social sciences, Czech language, literature, arts, history, etc. Media education can also be carried out in the form of project teaching. Media education offers elementary knowledge and skills related to media communication and media work and will equip pupils with basic levels of media literacy. In particular, it is the ability to analyse the communications offered, assess their credibility and evaluate their communication plan or, where appropriate, link them to other information. Cross-cutting topics represent circles of current problems in the current world. They have a highly overdisciplinary, transdisciplinary character. Their aim is to develop not only the skills and knowledge of pupils, but also to shape their attitudes and values and to understand the issue in the wider context of fields and everyday practice. In addition to media education, existing framework education programmes include, for example, environmental education, the training of a democratic citizen or thinking in a European and global context. The rules for teaching media education are fully within the competence of the school in which the years and how it will be taught as a cross-cutting topic. However, schools must ensure that pupils of a given type and grade will be familiar with their content as defined in the framework education programme, but that certain content of individual topics can be accentuated. It is possible to implement integration into other subjects in the form of a project or a separate subject. The best way is to combine all these forms. An example of methodological support for the teaching of media education can be given in a publication entitled The Integration of Media Education, which was created with the support of the Ministry of Education. Teachers will also find methodological support on the www.rvp.cz portal, where methodological materials are offered to teachers with outputs to achieve, specific subjects etc. There are also recommendations for access to the evaluation of media education and examples of how to integrate media education into the school education programme. As part of the work on the revision of the framework education programmes, a study was published this year, which names the fundamental directions for future development of media education. This year an expert team has also been set up to update the content of media education. Civic education is also a compulsory part of teaching in schools under the framework education programmes. Civil competence is one of the key competences that pupils must take from school. As a competent citizen, the pupil is to be tolerant, upholding laws and social standards, making responsible decisions, defending his rights and helping others in need and respecting and protecting our traditions and natural, cultural and historical heritage. Civic education is directly included in the education fields of man and his world at the first level of primary schools, citizenship education at the second stage of primary schools, the civic and social science basis at grammar schools and social science education and the civil education basis at secondary vocational schools. It is also included in cross-cutting topics such as the education of a democratic citizen, media education, education for thinking in European and global contexts or multicultural education, which can be applied in specific individual subjects or cross-cutting in more general subjects according to the decisions of individual schools. The framework education programmes are currently being reviewed by the National Institute for Education as a professional organisation subordinate to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The aim of the revision - and by the way, we had it on the government, we did not approve it and we returned it to recast - is to adapt the content of education to current social needs and prepare pupils for life in contemporary society with its changes and their effects. Civic education is intended to cover the new education area of man and society and the cross-cutting theme of the education of a democratic citizen to develop the civil competence of pupils. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u17	The honourable Member will ask an additional question, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for reading this to me so nicely about media literacy and critical thinking, but I asked you something else. Prime Minister, please, I asked if you really consider this a security risk, what the BIS mentions. Please ask your colleagues in the Baltic countries, Finland. They really do a lot more than we do. I asked why the concept of civil education, which is really in many countries, was not approved, and it is not just about schools. There, for example, in Germany, is the concept of civil education, which includes all the elements of society, from universities to retirement clubs, so that people know that they can participate in decisions in society and understand how politics works, how laws are passed, so that they simply navigate in society. It's not just a concept for schools. That's really a concept we haven't made yet. I wanted to ask you when you'd approve it and if you really thought it was a risk. [[Time warning]] If that's the way it is in the BIS, you consider it a risk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u19	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u20	Well, of course, we have services here that tell us something, and for example, we now have a de facto SACCIB's call to a specific firm on the table, and I also called the Security Council of the State for this tomorrow morning, because, of course, if we are talking about the risks, it is necessary to prove them in some way, so that there are no problems. So the fact that we have all kinds of misinformation in the area, we've been struggling with it since Monday, when somebody was trying to force and disinform citizens that we signed something, we didn't sign anything, and that we actually betrayed it, and this nonsense that was in that media space from the point of view of refugees, but I saw that there was an interpellation, so I'm not going to talk about it. As for the education, the government and the members of the government, they just didn't like the MŠMT material, so the MŠMT got it to rework, and now I have to ask Mr Plaga when he's due, but I'm going to try to push him forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u21	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Luzar, to have another interview with Mr Luzar. Mr Berkovec will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, my question is very short. I'd be very happy to answer that question. Recently, we were dealing here at an emergency meeting of the ArcelorMittal Ostrava situation and its forced sale to a new acquirer. You promised to try to find out information from the European Commission on things that would explain this situation or delay the problems or concerns that workers have. I would like to ask if you have managed to find out anything about the European Commission, or if there is any information, such as an investment plan and other matters, because information about the acquirer that raised doubts remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u23	Thank you for the short and specific question and respect for the time, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u24	I'll apologize to Mrs Langšádlová first. I messed up, you're right. The education is with Mrs. Štěpánková, human rights at the Office of the Government, so I know. We didn't like what she did, so it's up to me now, so I'm gonna rush myself. So I'm sorry I gave you the wrong information. [[15.00 hours]] About ArcelorMittal, it's probably a good start to remember a little bit of history. ArcelorMittal bought the majority share of New Huti in 2002 for 9 miles. dollars. For 52 percent he gave 6 million. dollars, which the then government considered to be a great success. At that time, this investor was named LMN Holding when registering at the Ancient Curacao and was considered a Dutch company. He made a commitment to certain investments, but he paid them all off from the company's profits, not as he promised it would come from his capital from abroad. And that's why his investments in ecology were delayed after the agreed timetable. Around his work there were many other uncertainties and strange events, such as the entrepreneur Mastný and PETRČÍLE company, the lawsuit against the Czech Republic. On the other hand, the media was eating out of his hand because they wrote admirable articles about him that he was one of the richest people in the world. Reading some of the things from that time is really an experience. From the outset, the minority shareholders also complained that the company does not pay dividends, although it has a profit and provides intra-group loans at lower interest rates than usual. According to the data provided in the annual reports, the group's short-term claims amounted to approximately 25 billion already in 2007-2009. The volume was increasing, the peak was in 2012, it was 42 billion. After payment of dividends then around 5 to 8 billion. By 2012, the company generated profit by balance sheet under undistributed profit of the previous years of 42.94 billion, so 43 billion. The first dividend payment was 8,38 billion in 2013, of the same amount of 8,24 billion. In 2014, 23 billion were paid for 2015. dividends, which, according to the statement, is cash flow. By then, ArcelorMittal had the whole company, so he took total dividends for 40 billion. To the fact that Mittal paid 9 miles to buy the New Huti. $35/dollar at the time, that was 315 miles. Kroner, so that's a pretty decent return. So it's just to remember how it worked out here. About the question. I've dealt with unionists several times. On this basis, I also wrote a letter to Mrs Vestager on 28 September 2018, where I ask her to take a responsible stand for the acquisition, because we were a little concerned about whether the investor would be some other investor who would forget to invest. On this basis, I received an answer from the Commissioner on 7 November 2018. Then I dealt with the Commissioner in person, and I dealt with the candidate, so we're giving it away. Now I've just received a letter from Mrs. Sobolová, I think her name is, if I'm not mistaken. I had it analysed by the Minister of Industry and Trade Nováková to tell us, and now I was also approached by the Governor Mr Vondrák, that they would like to sign de facto such a tripartite contract, the Region, ArcelorMittal and the new investor, to make it clear from the outset that we need to invest not only in the amount of depreciation, but to invest significantly more, because in the past the owner did not invest, mainly in Poland. In our country he only let it operate, but the expected investments did not show up. At this point, we are trying to prepare and address these participants in this acquisition, where, of course, it is not a problem to consult with you, too, if you are interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u25	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u26	Thank you for your answer. Only briefly. Of course, I'm interested in consulting because I'm interested in the development. But the specific question is, did the Commissioner's answer satisfy you? If, as they say, she helped you understand the situation of the European Commission and distracted the concerns that were raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u27	Thank you. Prime Minister, if he responds? He'll respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u28	I was very pleasantly surprised that her team really knew what they were talking about. We talked in the categories of depreciation, investment, because the new investor claims that he will actually use the only raw material that he wants to invest in energy. So I've been pointing out things that we didn't think or think. They wrote it down, and I think her team is professional, they understand. And I think the Commissioner was glad to see you. Now that I've met her again in Brussels, she's come back to it. I think that Mrs Vestager is indeed one of the very good commissioners, that he is doing his job very well, and I personally have confidence that he will see to it that something does not happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u29	I also thank Mr Berkovec, who will interpel in the matter of measures to combat drought. Deputy Vice-President Fiala will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u30	Dear Prime Minister, Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, I wish you a good day. You know, I come from the royal town of Salty. And Slánsko is one of the most dry areas in the Czech Republic. In addition, it is such an agricultural region along with Litoměřick. And I am getting more and more questions from our citizens, and they are not just farmers who are concerned with water loss in the countryside. That's a problem we've known about for many years. It is not only agricultural production or forestry. Of course, and of course, it results in the loss and decrease of the lower water levels and the loss of springs and drinking water. I would therefore like to know what measures are being taken and what the government will be doing in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u31	Thank you for keeping the time, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u32	Thank you for the floor. For us water, and here sits Minister Brabec, is indeed a strategic raw material that we should never have privatized and that we should have dealt with before. Now we're trying to take precautions in the fight against drought. One of our government's key priorities is the solution to the drought problem, which unfortunately has deepened again this year, and we must be prepared for its possible further deterioration in the coming years. Providing sufficient drinking water for citizens and greater water retention in the countryside is the country's highest public interest. The government will further intensify the efforts made by the Ministry of Environment in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. From European and national sources it is prepared at least 7 billion more. CZK to build hundreds of new pools, marshes, ponds or revitalization of watercourses to help our landscape. In many of the smaller villages in particular, we have already helped find new sources of drinking water and for hundreds of other municipalities we have prepared money for new wells or wells. We will continue with the successful Dešťovka programme for citizens, where we will support thousands of projects for better management of rainwater in households. We also have a similar programme for municipalities that, with our help, can develop rainwater management systems to improve the quality of life of their inhabitants. The amendment to the Water Act will also be submitted to Parliament next year, which will enable the State to respond to the risk of drought, including increasing the necessary competences. We have created and launched a unique system HAMR, combining weather forecast with the development of surface and underground waters and balance of water resources and water needs in individual regions. The Ministry of the Environment implements thousands of projects from its grant programmes, which aim primarily to improve water balance in the landscape. It is mainly about the return of water to the landscape in the form of natural water spills in watercourses, the restoration of ponds, marshlands and pools, planting of greenery into the landscape, limits, draws, alleys, improving the structure of forest crops and greenery in the settlements, the management of precipitation water or the provision of drinking water resources. [[15.10 hours]] For measures against drought, both European and national money is allocated to 2020 - a total of over 14 billion. Crowns. It's been approved for over 9,000 so far. specific projects for 7.6 billion. CZK, of which approximately 5 300 projects per 2.4 billion have already been implemented or are implemented. Crowns. Thanks to subsidies, municipalities and cities can solve their situation and prepare ahead for potential drought risks, build new sources of drinking water, or make existing ones available, build water supply and distribution and so on. From European and national sources, almost 3.9 billion are allocated to these projects. CZK, 444 projects have already been approved for 3.8 billion. CZK and already 360 projects implemented in 1.2 billion. Crowns. The Minister's programme of Dešťovka intended for both municipalities and individuals aims to combat drought. In Rainbow for individuals there were two challenges with a total allocation of 440 miles. Kroner, the final challenge is still running, approved for 3,000. projects in about 142 million. Crowns. In Dešťovka we register 24 approved projects with a total subsidy of 74 mil. Crowns. Last but not least, the Ministry, together with the Research Institute of Water Management, is already implementing projects called artificial infiltration. These consist of building underground reservoirs of water usable at the time of the threat of the territory by hydrological drought. Specifically, it is a sealing underground barrier in the village of Meziboří and a bank infiltration from the upcoming Jordan meander near Týniště nad Orlicí. The sealing wall system is designed for local combat with a lack of groundwater. The underground barrier is located across the direction of the flow of groundwater, which thus interrupts and accumulates. This leads to a local increase in groundwater and a possible return of water to the wells. In February 2019 the National Coalition will meet again to fight the drought, which the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec founded this autumn to evaluate the tasks set out and propose an action plan for the coming months. In addition, a top scientific team led by the Czech Technical University is meeting under the National Coalition to fight drought, preparing specific innovative projects to solve drought problems. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] The HARR system is the first example of good cooperation between physical organisations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u33	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional answer? He doesn't, in which case, please ask Vice-President Fiala to prepare for his intervention. By the time he gets to the microphone, Mr Kasal has apologized to us since 14.30 for business reasons. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u34	Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to comment on the problems that are building up at the Ministry of Transport under the direction of Minister Ťok and which culminated in this week's collapse on the most important transport communications in the Czech Republic. Just to remind you, it's not a single failure, it's a single failure. Since 2017, a new supplier of tolling system was to operate - shifted to 2020. The minulý government, too, had in the programme the Act on Line Buildings. So far, neither the government has approved the substantive purpose of this law. Three years ago, Minister Ťok announced that he would prepare to change the point system. Last year and this year, he declared this target again - the result is zero. During the last government, a little over 40 km of new highways were put into operation together. I remind you, in four years, 40 kilometers. The tender for construction of the D35 motorway was cancelled this year by the Antimonopoly Office because ŘSD issued a wrong form of contract. D1 was to be completely upgraded in 2018 - postponed to 2021. Current problems with the section around Humpolec appeared this spring, and in July ŘSD informed that the work would not be done in time. The Department of Transport didn't react at all. According to Minister Ťok, it was not expected to appear on D1 and Vysočina's snow by mid-December. Now a supplier has been fired and a new contractor will be selected for half a year and D1 is standing again. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister - you are constantly defending Minister Tooka, but isn't it time for you to admit his misconduct so that you can start dealing with this situation so that the situation at the Ministry of Transport can somehow be resolved, including personnel changes, so that the Ministry of Transport can actually work?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u35	I thank the Prime Minister for his exact time, and I ask the Prime Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u36	I agree that the Department of Transport is really complicated. I'm sure the ODS knows something about it. Historically, you had six transport ministers plus one non-pageist proposed by the ODS and their average life span was one and a quarter years. This really does not indicate that the ODS has any transport experts. One of the ODS's longest transport ministers was Aleš Řebíček, a symbol of clientelism in the Czech Republic, today he certainly enjoys the luxury of his limousines, yachts and resorts in Tuscany and Dubai, and this politician, whom they called the ODS treasurer, has miraculously become rich at the Ministry of Transport, otherwise there is nothing left of him. It also applies to other ministers. We've been almost 30 years since the revolution, and we still haven't gotten the spinal highway network, high-speed lines have been talked about for years, but nothing's happened. Now you want us to do everything you haven't done in twenty-one years in four years. So we were actually starting out when the land wasn't bought out at all. We came up with the law that finally started. Most of all, of course, Mr. Bárta did it in 2010 and we moved it after years of lethargy, doing nothing. Of course, a moloch like ŘSD isn't easy. Today, 200 km of new highways and first-class roads are being built, so if you're building highways at this rate, we're already done. We have 1,250 km of highways, from which we inherited after the former 400 regime. In Morocco, they built 1,800 km in 27 years. You didn't build, you let it fall apart. Here's the table, Mr. Chairman. [[He's pointing.]] There's that Took, there's Bendl - almost nothing, there's Mr. Stanjura. Those are real numbers. And to D1. Of course I don't like it. I criticized the Minister that he was soft on ŘSD, that the real situation on D1 should have been resolved two months ago when they knew the supplier wasn't working, and now he has left the building. I will ask ŘSD if they had signed the contract in such a way that when they end, and it is legally possible, the existing supplier was unfortunately chosen only on the basis of the price, the Slovák have the same problem, bypass Bratislava, it is of course their problem and they should think about the law where there will not be just the price. Today finally the section Humpolec - Windy Jenikov was narrowed down, there are two lanes. Columns - I apologize for this, of course, for the ŘSD, but it is their responsibility, and I will, of course, want to know clearly what consequences it has drawn for the responsible people. He was supposed to go to that place, and now we've made a deal with Minister Hamáček, yesterday, that he'll be at the police station, that he'll deal with it. I'm definitely not defending it here. On the other hand, D1, with which you did nothing at all, and you also forgot to build the D35 motorway from Hradec to Olomouc, which would lighten D1, so we do again 130 km, de facto new. Criticizing us is fine, it hasn't happened since the arrival of the previous coalition government that there was no money that was an argument in the past, so we're building it. He built Řebíček for you. Why? Because his firm was building, no one was yelling about a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u37	Thank you. Please, Mr President, he is interested in an additional question. Please, follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u38	I'm just here for all citizens who are struggling in the motorcades and driving on roads that can't be driven, for five years there is an ANO transport resort. When we look at the highways, in 2017, you were able to build 17 km, while an average year before the economic crisis, 56 km of motorways were built. Those are facts that anyone can look at. [[15.20 hours]] But now that you've made your point about the D1 situation, as you're concerned about it, you said in iDNES today that the Minister of Transport was not responsible for the D1's problems, but for the ŘSD and the bad law on public procurement. So you had in mind the responsibility of Mr. Kroupa's director, appointed by Minister Dan Ťok in 2014? Or did you mean the Public Procurement Act that Karla Šlechtová drafted two years ago and approved by the government that you were, Prime Minister, then a vice prime minister? And am I to understand that you are preparing a new law on public procurement? Or how do you actually understand your words? And what responsibility and who will be attributed to this situation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u39	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u40	If I hadn't been told by the ODS who forgot to go to Bavaria for an internship in January 1990 to learn to build a market economy or capitalism, I would have taken it seriously. The responsibility is to the ŘSD. Yes. I suppose Mr. Ťok will ask Mr. Kroupa what he's done, how he's supposed to do it. And that's the current situation. But the inheritance that we actually inherited from you, it's not easy to change. We are now mainly working on a construction law which should de facto fundamentally change and speed up construction time. Yes. And the laws? When we did $46 together, there's no problem with us making other laws together. We won't be in government forever. And it's a shame you didn't do them in front of us. I think that's what all the numbers are for. And we have a clear plan. I forced Ťok to open the Prague - Ústí motorway in January 2016. She's been building for 32 years. And we went to Hradec for 37 years. You could have built everything. From the revolution to the accession of the European Union, everything could have been built into the emergence of regions. Unfortunately, it isn't. We're trying, but we're in a different structure of state and self-government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u41	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka will now intersect on the warning of the National Cyber and Information Security Office. Mr Kopřiva will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u42	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the National Cyber and Information Security Office issued a warning on Monday that the use of Huawei and ZTE software and hardware is a security threat. You then replied to the public that the Authority could not handle this warning completely. And the day after that, you said that the Government Office would fire all Huawei's cell phones. But I want to ask you how you really take the National Cyber and Information Security Authority's warning seriously. I also ask that in the context that the Senate of the Czech Republic has today adopted a resolution in which it calls on all constitutional actors to approach the content of reports drawn up by security services and similar institutions in the Czech Republic in all seriousness. I take the National Authority for Cyber and Information Security for the relevant and respected office, and I would therefore like to know how the Government of the Czech Republic will actually deal with this warning. And I would also like to point out that this appears in several places in the warning report itself, as well as in other outputs of the Office itself, that this warning is aimed not at end-users of mobile phones mentioned by the brands, but from the point of view of state security it is critical information infrastructure, important information systems and operators of basic services, and the law defines exactly how serious places, how serious the elements are, because it is directly stated that such an element of critical infrastructure is meant by a point, which may even mean the deaths of 250 people, possibly their health threats in a number of 2,500 or more. [[Attention on time.]] So that's exactly how it's defined. What does the government really do with that warning?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u43	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u44	I'd like to say that the government was on 17. 12. 2018 means on Monday, by the director of the SAOKIB additionally informed that a warning was issued by the SAOKIB on the same day under the Cyber Security Act against the use of the software and hardware of Huawei Technologies and ZTE Corporation. And the NÚKIB told us that the use of these funds is to pose a security threat, and the NÚKIB came to this conclusion on the basis of its own knowledge and knowledge of security partners. The main problem according to the núkib is seen in the legal and political environment of the People's Republic of China, in which these companies primarily operate. China's laws require private companies to cooperate in intelligence activities in China, among other things, thus allowing them to enter a system that is crucial to the operation of the state may pose a threat. The SAOKIB also proceeded to issue a warning because the Republic of China actively promotes its interests in the Czech Republic, including the implementation of intelligence activities of both an influential and a different nature, as evidenced by the annual security service reports for 2017. We discussed in the government the convention of this decision, which we lacked comprehensive legal analysis and the establishment of a further procedure for entities who have to follow this warning by law. A methodological procedure should be laid down as to how, for example, individual ministries as contracting entities should follow the Public Procurement Act. When I asked the director, on what grounds, and if he had various impact analyses, he didn't have them. And he basically got the task of working it out instead of getting it worked out in advance. And of course he came to the government and the warning was already out, so it wasn't about us either. We didn't decide anything. We've been made aware of that. I called for tomorrow in connection with the NUKIB warning of the State Security Council, because, of course, we got information about cell phones, now the NÚKIB says they're not cell phones, that cell phones are okay, that there's no problem. So even the office, the independent office, somehow provides information, and we need to know exactly to prove it, to show us, because such a decision is, of course, essential. As far as the Office of the Government is concerned, we do not use the technology of these brands in internal networks within the framework of important information systems under the Cyber Security Act, and in the future, the recommendations of the SAKIB have to be taken into account in the acquisition of new technologies. This statement of the SAOKIB was created to protect the critical information infrastructure of the Czech Republic, a system without which the state could not function properly. If the NÚKIB finds that these systems are in any way at risk, it must act immediately under the Cyber Security Act, so it issued a warning. It was used for the first time in the history of the effectiveness of the Cyber Security Act. And the NÚKIB warns that there is a threat. But that's all we know. This will primarily affect critical information infrastructure, important information systems and providers of basic services, i.e. those affected by the Cyber Security Act. It will primarily affect critical information infrastructure, important information systems and providers of basic services, i.e. those affected by the Cyber Security Act. Managers of critical information infrastructure, important information systems and providers of basic services have an obligation under the Cyber Security Act to reflect current threats in the adoption of security measures, including the setting up of contracts with suppliers. We haven't learned from the Bureau how individual ministries should proceed. Therefore, the warning does not in itself give any obligation to anyone, it merely becomes a basis on which critical information infrastructure bodies, significant information systems and providers of basic services assess the risks on which they must then take adequate security measures. The security measure defines the cybersecurity decree. In general, the risk can be defined as the possibility or probability that a threat will exploit the asset's vulnerability and cause damage. The question is: How will the warning manifest itself in future ICT supplies? I've already remembered the reasons, that's what I'm talking about. [[Attention on time.]] Sure. So I just... Can I finish?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u45	If the Member has an additional question, you will have the opportunity to complete the reply. So, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u46	I have read in detail the warning from the Office, where it actually gives instructions on how the authorities can stand up to it. And it says that it has a direct impact on the form of public procurement, because the decommissioning of these companies cannot then be regarded as illegally discriminatory. This is one of the specific points that appear there. And I am interested in this because, of course, this impact concerns energy companies, a whole range of companies that are not directly owned by the state, so I want to ask how this government evaluates, how it stands, and whether the Ministry itself has dealt with this warning at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u47	Thank you. Please now, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u48	All I would say is that the warning, and the Bureau is no longer talking about cell phones, as he originally spoke, is about state information systems. Auction of ČTÚ on frequencies 5G, further to state systems, Police of the Czech Republic, Minister of Interior. And the Bureau didn't give us any analysis. The Bureau has notified us of the risk without any impact analysis on the ongoing competitions or... So, actually, we've called on the NÚKIB to do it. And now, of course, the individual ministries are analyzing how they should proceed, and given that there are various uncertainties and the office instead of informing us first and presenting us with his analyses, so he actually announced it, so for that reason, since several of the government's colleagues are asking how to proceed, we didn't learn that in the government, so that's why we're going to deal with it tomorrow at the BRS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u49	Thank you and we will move on to the next interview where Mr Kopřiva will intersect on Istanbul - promises and reality. Mrs Maříková will be ready. Before the MP arrives, I'll read the note. Minister Staněk apologizes to us from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Prime Minister, unfortunately, I have noticed a change in your view of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, so-called. The Istanbul Convention. On 19 March this year, you stated in your Facebook account: "Today, the Czech Women's lobby came to coffee. I promised them that we would ratify the Istanbul Convention, improve the protection of victims of violence against women." The urgent ratification of the Istanbul Convention was also mentioned in its resolution of 22 October by the Government Council on Gender Equality. The board you're chairing, by the way, Prime Minister. In the diary However, last Saturday, 15 December, you made a very negative comment on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. You said the Czech laws were enough and we don't need the treaty. You also repeated that when international pacts are non-binding, they are unnecessary. Unfortunately, there are many misinformations and misinterpretations about the Istanbul Convention. In such an atmosphere, it is necessary to listen to experts, for example. The above-mentioned council of government, not to fear traders, or to join them, God forbid. So I am interested: Do you intend to keep your promise of March 19 and will you take up ratification of the Istanbul Convention? What specific steps will you take? Above all, when will the government submit the Istanbul Convention to the Chamber of Deputies for ratification? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u51	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u52	Well, we live in the Czech Republic, here we have laws, we have European laws. And, of course, the Istanbul Convention, there are different opinions about that. I can read them to you here. President Miloš Zeman called the Istanbul Convention harmless and unnecessary for the Czech Republic. I haven't done anything else since Monday. I'm just saying out the fake news about the High Commissioner's report on refugees. That'll be another interpellation. Fake news, somebody's spreading. That we allegedly betrayed someone, which, of course, is a lie. A global pact, like that, mak. That's what I asked last time about the enforcement of these various conventions. So the fact that I said something, because then others came back, they had a different opinion. And believe me, the Istanbul Convention is not my priority. My priority is building law. Or D1 now, which has finally started. So the Istanbul Convention was discussed by the government in February 1216 by the former government. And a lot of people have a lot of opinions about it. Even as part of our movement. Juchelka, Válková is fundamentally against. Maxová, Charanzová is a major pro. Against them are the SPD, where the majority of Members of the ODS, for them ČSSD, Pirates, STAN, TOP. So leave it to the House, you'll have time here again. But for me, I can say, I was assured that under Czech law we have laws that sufficiently protect against domestic violence and violence against women. Of course, there are some things that might have meaning. But I suppose this convention will be a big debate in the House. And I'd leave it to the MPs. Because even within the movement, everyone has an opinion about it. I've made my point. Then other people came to me again who argued. And then you have 50 opinions - half is for, half against. And all I'm saying is that these conventions, different pacts, people said they voted there. What impact does this have on the Czech Republic, on Czech citizens? What is the enforcement of these non-binding contracts? Well, none. None. They are merely political proclamations, which, of course, are then used differently, used and enforced, of course, that is, as the Minister of Justice says, the Convention will have no legislative impact and that it does not see anything that goes against traditional values. At the same time, it states that their main value is symbolic, which is some kind of symbol. So politicians will be able to talk about it. It's really not a priority for me. To me, priorities are different within our country. So I'd leave it to the House, and I'm pretty sure they'll all be talking about it for hours and hours. And I'd be happy to leave it to the MPs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u53	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u54	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I can't thank the Prime Minister because of my three questions he answered exactly zero. I understand that we all have different priorities in our agenda and within our parties, but today we have interpelations, and I would like to see a priority for at least this moment being the answer to at least one of those questions, to the most important one. I mean, I agree that the House will, of course, decide, that's true, let's leave it to the MPs, which I agree with. But first, the government must present it to the House. Otherwise, we can't discuss this here, let alone vote on it. So I've come to terms with the fact that I don't get an answer to the Prime Minister's opinion right now, because apparently he doesn't, or maybe he changes it as needed. But I wonder when the government will bring the Istanbul Convention to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u55	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u56	I'll ask Mr. Kněžínek. I'm assuming he won't make it by Christmas, so I'm assuming next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u57	Thank you, and I'd like to interpelise Mrs. Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, the Czech Republic supported the UN Global Pact on Refugees on Monday. Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček refuses to be a surprise. According to him, the government decided to vote for this pact on Monday. In doing so, you are in the role of rejecting this document. On Monday, you stated: My opinion is that we should not commit to this pact either. The reason for this is that the decision on migration and the reception of refugees must be the supreme law of our country. It is not possible for international institutions to decide this, for which the Government was also called upon by its May resolution by the Chamber of Deputies. The government's Monday resolution is in conflict with your previous statement for the law diary. Does that mean, Prime Minister, that your opinion is not consistent with your government's position? Don't you think your government is a little contradicted when it didn't support the migration pact and, despite promises, supported the refugee pact when these pacts are very similar? The UN refugee pact aims to transfer refugees to other host countries or facilitate family unification. Why did the Czech Republic not oppose, as did Hungary and the USA? Hungary was opposed because the pact is completely against the country's security interests. Do you have control over this state's foreign policy when you and the Minister are disunited and you say different things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u59	Thank you, too. Before the Prime Minister, whom I beg for an answer, arrives at the microphone, I will read the note. Mr Válek apologizes to us between 16 and 19 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Strýček apologizes to us from 15.45 to the end of the day for working reasons, Minister Hamáček apologises to us from 17.30 for working reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u60	I'm so sorry you're continuing to spread the fake news, the untruths. You're actually here to mysticize people that we voted for something. We didn't vote for anything. We have made it clear that we will vote against the so-called 'no'. The Marrakesh global pact against which we voted and which still has no impact on the Czech Republic. We have clearly expressed our disagreement, because the pact we voted against on Wednesday - and the media did not report much - was mainly the first one - because the document highlighted the positive benefits of migration and neglected the negative consequences of uncontrolled migration, which is the clashes of newcomers and old-timers, increased crime, financial intensity of the asylum system or the threat of terrorism, and it wipes out the difference between legal and illegal migration, which is totally unacceptable for the Czech Republic. This aspect was also criticised by Austria. So we were fundamentally against it, it is for the Government's resolution and what we promised - and I mainly promised the citizens that I would cancel the quotas within six months, and I did, in June at four in the morning, we pushed for it. And today we are proposing within Europe how to tackle illegal migration. What you're saying, so-called. The global refugee pact is only the Commissioner's annual report, yes, which is approved by the Supreme Authority. And it doesn't really affect us. It's just you guys here trying to tell people it's the same thing. And what does the message say? Well, we want to deal with refugees outside the European Union. Yes, we are helping them not to go to the European Union to stay in Africa. That's what we discussed on Monday. So it's just a treatise in the Geneva Convention. It is true that we had quite an exciting debate about this in the government, and on the basis of the arguments put forward, it was written that the report is in line with the 1951 Geneva Convention and has no impact on the migration policy of the Czech Republic. None of these pacts have any influence. And we haven't accepted any migrants or refugees since 2017, okay? So we follow the Geneva Convention, that is clear, and on the contrary we try when foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic commit crimes after a final conviction for a deliberate crime, can be aliens canceled residence and must travel, directly by a criminal court in case of a sentence of expulsion or by the Ministry of the Interior in administrative proceedings. At the same time, foreigners may commit infractions related to the residence regime, illegal residence, illegal work, followed by administrative expulsion proceedings and the imposition of a ban on entry into the EU, this is addressed by the police. Yes? So we have agreed with the Minister of the Interior, Hamáček, about an amendment that addresses the situation of criminal offences so that a decision is made to cancel the stay and travel as quickly as possible. At the same time, administrative expulsion also accelerates. So they're headed for both situations. In addition to the acceleration of the proceedings, it also tightens the criteria for easier cancellation of the stay. All it takes is three final crimes, regardless of the level of the rate. Furthermore, it is cancelled in the case of a three-year penalty rate, automatically allowing better use of classified information. So we want to strengthen the process, the return policy, yes, and of course we have a problem now, because the senators have turned to the Constitutional Court, which unfortunately granted them the title that when they are expelled by the court, they often come up with a date within a week and that they want to get married here. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So we're doing specific things, and there's not gonna be a single fugitive coming. And don't mysticize these people. We did what we promised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u61	I'd like to ask you a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You, Prime Minister, stated on your Facebook profile: Personally, I have a completely different opinion from the Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček. - Can you tell us which member of the government voted in favour and who voted against the adoption of the UN Global Pact on Refugees, including how you voted? Since the vote was binding The State Department will instruct the vote on the Global Pact on Refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u63	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister to answer the supplementary question if he's interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u64	It's true I had a different opinion about it. But after a rather excited debate, when I was assured that it had no influence, and it had no influence, it was said that we simply would not vote on the Commissioner's report because it has no influence. Because those migrants are affecting us. That's where we made our point. So the government votes in the choir. I think people saw clearly that we promised what we said that no illegal migrant was coming. We're holding this strategy. We tighten up even if someone wants to come work with us. And I think the public saw that the main pact that we said we were against for the reasons I read, we kept it. And what was on Monday is the Commissioner's report, which, once again, has no influence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u65	Thank you and I now ask Mrs Majerová Zahradníková to interpel in the matter of contradiction in her statements. Mr Michálek apologizes to us between 16 and 17 for work reasons. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u66	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask about the fundamental contradiction and contradiction of the positions of the government coalition in foreign policy of the Czech Republic. On Monday, the UN General Assembly adopted a global pact on refugees, and the Czech Republic supported this document. On Monday's interview, which was quoted here a moment ago, you made it clear that on your Facebook profile, even on Tuesday, he repeatedly assured us that we would not accept a global pact about refugees who voted on Monday, nor the global pact on migration, which was voted on Wednesday. Can you tell us why you changed your mind at the last minute and the Czech Republic accepted this global pact about refugees in New York on Monday?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u67	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Before arriving at the microphone, Mrs Červíčková apologizes to us between 16.15 and 18.00 hours due to a doctor's visit. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u68	I don't know, so I can do it again. I just said that, so I don't know why you're not making a deal. You can interpelate together so that we don't repeat things unnecessarily. What you are saying is a legally non-binding resolution of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees, which is in line with the 1951 Geneva Convention and has no influence on the Government's migration policy. So stop telling people we signed something. We didn't sign anything. It doesn't affect anything. It doesn't have any influence! We can talk about the effect the UN has on today when the UN Security Council is still blocked, and all those conferences, all the challenges that actually follow them in the finals, okay? And this document is clearly against illegal migration and consistently says that the Czech Republic will decide who will live and work with us. I keep saying that over and over and we do, and that's why no one comes to us and that's why we're 6. the safest country in the world and the seventh most peaceful, okay? So I've already talked about it. The important thing is that we voted against the Marrakesh pact, which we did not like, the 19th vote, when we gave a negative opinion, and we did not participate in the conference, and we also followed the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 233 of 24 May 2018, where the Chamber of Deputies says: It insists that in the field of legal economic migration - the status quo must be maintained, i.e. that powers, including decisions on the selection of source countries, the number of migrants, their professional qualifications and the possibility of rejection of applicants remain in the competence of the competent authorities of the Czech Republic. And that's it, and that doesn't change anything. So we lived here for three days in total disinformation, where people were actually confused, because someone told them that we agreed to migration, and it was all mixed together, and it's nonsense, and I can repeat it over and over again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u69	Thank you. Please, the follow-up question will be, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u70	That's not what I asked. Well, I'm not really confused, and I read both of those pacts. I have them here in the original version, and if you want, I can give them to you. I really don't need to read translations. And what you mentioned here is the contents of the refugee pact, it's not the contents. The content clearly refers to the participation, responsibility and acceptance of solidarity. I might as well cut those passages for you. But my question focused mainly on why you changed your mind. Why did you have another one on Monday, on Facebook probably Mr. Prchal held this position for you on Tuesday, but now you have another one. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u71	Thank you. The Prime Minister might want to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u72	Please, I haven't read the pacts or read them. I don't have time for this. And in six months' time, I've made it clear that there won't be quotas in Europe, and that's important. And now I'm dealing with illegal migration to Europe. And me in the finals, because the pacts have no influence, they are a political declaration, and the Czech Republic, Mrs Novotná, director at the Ministry of the Interior, we have such a strategy that no one will actually come to us illegally or come to us and we can set an example for other countries in Europe. And we're also talking about it, and we're also explaining to our colleagues that their approach is a way to hell. We have 700 thousand. illegal migrants in Europe who should leave Europe. We are fighting for Europe's security today as well. We fought our security, and this debate about global pacts makes no sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u73	Thank you and we will continue with another interpellation where Mr Polanský will interpel in the matter of the National Sports Agency. I would just like to point out that the format does not allow Members to interpelate together. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u74	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to address you on the issue of the emerging National Sports Agency. Let us leave aside the position and activity of the Agency and focus on one factor, namely its location. We've already talked about this today. As a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region, I have positively acknowledged Mr Lukáš Bartoň's amendments, which propose the transfer of the Agency's headquarters to Bruntál. It is a House document 1949. And my question is, what is your opinion on this and whether you will support this proposal. Bruntál is a city in the economically weakest region of the Czech Republic. There are long-term lowest average wages, highest unemployment, neglected infrastructure, and several other unflattering ones. By placing the agency in Bruntál, we will inject new blood into the veins, including starting the pressure to improve the infrastructure. On the contrary, if the Agency remained in Prague, no secondary investment or development of the services provided will be encouraged. Given that this is a completely new institution, we will avoid problems associated with the relocation of the seat, such as the relocation of the Ministry, which is also proposed here, and since the Agency's core is just a register and all requests and other communications will be dealt with electronically, there is no need for the Agency to be a priori accessible to the public. Savings on operating and wage spending alone, if it is established in Bruntál, I may not have to mention it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u75	Thank you for the short and precise question and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u76	I don't know how many people work at that agency. I think it's a few dozen, so it's not really crucial, and I can't imagine all athletes going to Bruntál, even if the connection is catastrophic. So I take it, and I understand that you'd like to have everything digitized, that's fine, we have a government attorney for that, too, but I'm going to discuss it with Mr. Hnilička. I don't know if you guys talked about this, but it's, I don't have an exact number right now, but a few people. So the question is, if we could actually get the right people into that place, and if this strategic agency, if we want to fundamentally promote sport, should be sitting right in Bruntál. But I'm sure I'll interpret it to Mr. Hnilička.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u77	Thank you. The Member wants an additional question, so please. We can still make it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u78	Thank you. I'm just saying. I know the situation in Bruntál, as well as the city and there really the agency of a few dozen people will mean a significant shift. Infrastructure's really bad there. One of the reasons to put the agency there is the pressure to improve. And athletes don't really have to go there. As I say, all requests, all communications should be made electronically. That was just a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u79	Thank you. I don't know if the Prime Minister wants to respond to an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u80	Well, then he doesn't have to sit anywhere if it's all electronically. I don't know. But maybe we can find some other office that could be better suited. I know Bruntál, I know entrepreneurs there, and of course the main problem is infrastructure. But I understand what you're proposing, and we're going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u81	I thank you, and given the time we have, I do not know if Mrs Richterová would be able to bring forward her interpellation in the matter of the cross-spectrum definition of endangerment, so I am afraid that we will move on. So I'll hand over the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u82	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. We conclude the interview with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and proceed to the interpellings of the Members to the various ministers. I call on Mr Jan zahradník to give an interview to the Minister of Transport, Mr Dan Ťok, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u83	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing Mr Took with my interpellation to the Minister of Transport. Minister, it won't be about D1, I'll give you a break today, and I'm not much of a South Boy, I'm more of a north-facing driver, so I'm interested in the D3 motorway. There were some pretty unpleasant things where the land, which had already been expropriated and priced, was not paid to the owner by a ŘSD official. He just forgot about it, or he didn't, the owner asked to return the property. He got it back. Second round, second proposal for expropriation, which is already accompanied by difficulties. The owner appealed against the expropriation decision, it is not known what price he was offered. Now it seems that if there were no agreement with the owner, the section D3 between Ševětín and Bork near České Budějovice would be operational only for certain parts, without the disputed section. The cars will have to slow down, there will be a roadblock, there will be about 50 meters of highway missing, which is like a message from another world for us. That is why I ask you, Minister, what will you do about it, what will you give your subordinates to ŘSD to make amends, but for God's sake, not to repeat themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u84	Thank you for your time, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u85	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, Mr Zahradník, through Mr President, in this case this is a private property owned by Mr Zevl under the construction of the D3 motorway, which has not yet been properly settled, as you said. For this reason, traffic flows from the newly built half of the motorway to the parallel road 1/3, which has historically been built as the future half of the D3 motorway, are managed in a short section. The owner's property settlement was provided by the contractual partner Valbek for the DSD. His dealings with the owner for the purchase of the land did not lead to an agreement, so the claim for the expropriation of the land was made and the expropriation decision was issued. In view of the disproportionate price, ŘSD appealed against that part of the operative part concerning the amount of the refund. Subsequently, the Regional Authority of the South Bohemia Region issued a decision in which it reduced the amount of compensation to about one fifth of the original amount. Unfortunately, the contractual partner did not deliver this decision after the acquisition of its legal power and therefore the deadline for payment of the expropriation was expired in vain. The expropriated person therefore exercised the legal option and, following his request, the expropriation authority decided that the expropriation carried out would be abolished. In the following period a number of negotiations took place with the owner, but unfortunately we did not get to the agreement, so ŘSD therefore requested the expropriation of the necessary land on the basis of a new expert opinion. The new expropriation decision was issued in November 2018. The owner of the land appealed again against the expropriation decision. The Regional Authority of the South Bohemia Region is now discussing this appeal. The ŘSD assumes that the appeal procedure will take place in the winter months and, in case of a favourable result, the motorway will be completed and put into operation by May 2019, which means that the overall construction schedule will be followed and the whole profile will be driven there. Let me add - we've been dealing with the situation, we have to see that this thing doesn't happen systemically. She wouldn't happen systemically, there was an individual error, which is what happens in the thousands of procedures that happen there. I've recommended that Valbek discuss this with Valbek and that he come up with a generous offer and settle it quickly, because we'll still apply contractual sanctions against them. So maybe this would be the easier way to solve it. On the other hand, according to the new 48th, we can use the interim decision and finish it and negotiate it later. So I firmly believe that there's going to be riding on this section the way we're supposed to ride, that we're finally gonna make a deal. I was ready to do it myself, if there was any problem. And I'm going to insist that the ŘSD is going to present to me really such things that there will be a futile deadline, that such things will not be repeated, because it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u86	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? I see you do, so please, Congressman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u87	Thank you, Minister, for the effective hope you gave us the Southmen. It's probably also because Valbek, if he's not from Liberec, corresponds with those people across the republic, they don't go there, they don't even have the option. Everything is handled in writing for a long time. If perhaps it would not be better if you had such sensitive things, and it is known that ŘSD is not a land-buying champion, they are constantly having trouble with this sensitive thing, if you would not have situated these sensitive things and entrusted them to the ŘSD Directorate in that region. To do so by the people of ŘSD in Budějovice, who would have a much better opportunity to deal directly with these perhaps troubled people, so as not to do such crazy things that a normal person cannot understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u88	Thank you. The Minister is interested in an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u89	You're right that dealing with owners is generally a problem. It's not just that we're not willing to act. I know that the director of the area was dealing with the gentleman, offering him even a generous price increase, but they didn't make a deal. Maybe there were some old reminiscences. Today we are in trouble, because although here in this House it often bows down that we are not building, we are really preparing and building so many buildings that today there are no capacity for ŘSD, nor for those design companies to have to do these works. Not to mention, by putting it on the designers, I have to admit, they do it by putting the most experienced people on the projects, but the best people aren't, so maybe that's what happens. It's a long-term pain detected by me, too. [[16.10 hours]] I'm sure we're looking for ways to solve this systemically, because, in my opinion, there's still another moment, and we're going to put it in a new 40-sixth, in a government proposal, to give them the opportunity, first, to buy a larger part of the land, because we usually buy some noodles and he doesn't like that we don't give him compensation for the whole, which he's right. But you can't do it in the law. And then the second thing, so we can do more generously to compensate these people. I think that would help, because it's not that we can't talk to these people. The point is, the law doesn't allow us to give them the conditions that they and maybe even the worker who's discussing it with them would have imagined. But they're bound by the law, and they're bound by the fact that if they break it, the NKÚ will come to them and say they've wrongly paid off state funds here. So it has a few planes that need to be solved together and it's not quite easy. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u90	The next interviewer will be Mr. Vít Rakušan for Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u91	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam absent Minister of Finance Schillerová, my question relates to what we all registered in the media last week, which means the European Parliament resolution in relation to the European Commission in the case of possible conflict of interests of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. At the same time, we have registered information that the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic has announced that it will temporarily not ask the European Commission to repay funds that are linked to Agrofert. As we all know, prefinancing of European projects takes place from Czech sources, i.e. from the national budget. My question is quite simple - whether the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic has already provided any funds in the prefinancing of the projects associated with Agrofert holding. How high these funds from our state budget have been so far. Then I also ask how many specific grant projects were involved at the time. And as head of the state register, I'm also asking you if another ministry has done so, in this case most likely the Ministry of Agriculture. The question is quite simple. We know that Agrofert holding is a accumulater of large amounts of subsidy funds, and we ask whether these funds were paid out of the Czech national budget, i.e. from the money of Czech taxpayers. I ask whether the Czech State will possibly require the recovery of these funds from Agrofert. At the same time, I wonder if you can assure us with your answer that Agrofert projects will not really be paid out of Czech finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u92	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing to the interview. The next in line is Mr. Ondřej Polanský for Minister Dan Ťok. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u93	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, on the repaired section of the D1 motorway between Humpolec and Větrný Jeníkov, several-hour columns have been created since Wednesday 12 December due to delays in construction work and expected impaired climatic conditions. The contractor, this is the TGS Joint Venture association, was originally to hand over the construction three weeks ago. Monday 17. 12. Announces the termination of the contract with Geosan Group, which informed of its withdrawal from the contract on Tuesday. Now working on the repair of the motorway, the company selected by ŘSD without competition in the form of a negotiated procedure without publication. Work on moving concrete rails means that traffic is downloaded into one lane and collapses again. They're forming columns - that's the information you need from this morning. From your statement, the state will enforce a penalty from Geosan. First, I ask: From the Geosan Group contract, the penalty was 1.5 million. crowns a day. How much penalty will it cost after the company to enforce? Second: Since it is now necessary to write a new contract immediately so that another company can start working on the section in spring, what is the expected delay of the construction and the real goal of completion of the works? According to my estimates, it's going to be about the second half of 2020. And thirdly, were there check days in the Geosan Group contract? How was the failure to comply with the partial terms addressed? On what basis has the CSD allowed a delay in the termination of work? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u94	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u95	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will try to answer all this from start to finish. The fact that we moved the guardrails so that two full lanes would be created was a decision made on Monday. And, of course, during this move, especially in a situation where the guardrails were frozen and covered in snow, so even though I suggested that it be done from one side, it was not possible in terms of safety. So that narrowing down was basically a fundamental necessity for the slides to shift. However, we had six groups of workers there, and they only did it, closing it in one lane only in the part where they worked. So you're right that there were motorcades. But the passage was pretty well secured. I agree, there was about an hour delay in peaks. However, I would like to inform everyone that the work is done. The guardrails are shifted, driven in two full lanes, and maintenance is done as it is. So at this point, or two or three hours of work is good. There are some motorcades on the highway, but they're due to the increased movement of vehicles near Brno. And there's another accident, I think, towards Vyskov. So much for that. As far as the relationship with this consortium is concerned, I'll take it from the top. Of course, milestones are given in such a contract and periodic penalty payments are given. Maybe I'm not gonna tell you the numbers right now, so we can fill you in in writing. I just want to say one thing. Of course, since the beginning of this construction there have been all control mechanisms, there have been check days. We dealt regularly with the company or the Road and Motorway Directorate with the company and warned them that they have a relatively low number of employees and techniques deployed and that this means that they are getting late. The problem is that the deal under the Commercial Code and under the terms and conditions that ŘSD has so allows has certain mechanisms in which you can notify the company. First, warning of non-compliance with milestones is one thing. Then you have to give them an alternate milestone. So they got the final milestone to finish the construction by the end of November. Unfortunately, they didn't meet the deadline, although it was still viable at the time we talked to them. Unfortunately, the company, like I said, started, or the consortium started to fall apart. Even paradoxical things happened to us there, or paradoxical things happened to them, that by not paying each other, they even stole technology. So that's where the police were investigating bagra theft. It is simply a lesson that here in this competition, which was quite standard, I would even say from the point of view of the debates here, we were pushed not only to give orders to construction companies of Czech and proven, but to give in open competition those chances and others. They were made up of me, I wouldn't say any fundamentals, but also the pressure to choose who succeeds in the competition will prove the qualification criteria and then give the lowest price, so here it turned out this way. I'll be back. When they didn't meet the deadline on the 30th, we had to give them a spare, according to the contract. That was the 16th of December. There's been a beautiful mistake here that I said we expected it not to snow. No. We were forced to extend the term. By extending it, we were really hoping the snow wouldn't be. But we didn't stand a chance. After this deadline expired, we had the opportunity to withdraw from the contract. That's what we did. Of courseGeosan their lawyers immediately advised Geosana to resign, and thus to get into a better position in terms of enforcing the commitment. So, about the first things. Geosan, or the whole consortium gave us bank guarantees. So, of course, we're gonna pull the whole thing off of them. And we'll enforce all penalties. But I'm afraid it's gonna be some kind of lawsuit because they're not gonna keep it and defend themselves. [[Time warning]] But that's unfortunately the color of all construction contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u96	There is an interest in an additional question. Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u97	Thank you for your detailed answer. I will add one more question, which actually comes from a lot of citizens, and that is actually for a reason. The reason for the withdrawal of the contract is because the question from the citizens is so that if I understand correctly, the Ministry of Transport will withdraw from the contract, which actually brings a penalty of 1.5 million. CZK daily, and actually by accepting withdrawal from the construction company, both the delayed construction and the entitlement to periodic penalty payments will actually stop. [[16.20 hours]] The future development will probably be such that a competition will be announced for a new contractor. If none of the companies so to speak fit the pitchfork, then theoretically, a new contract could be signed in the summer, if I correctly estimate it, hand over the construction site in the autumn, I don't think it will be possible to build over the winter, start in 2020 in spring and end date, that is one of the questions I asked before, about the second half of 2020 according to my estimates. That's about it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u98	Thank you. The Minister is interested in an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u99	Yes, you're right, I haven't answered this question yet. Today we're looking for a way to continue this construction not to compete, but to find a way to choose from three offers directly. We will have an opinion on whether this type of assignment can be used sometime in early January, so there is a really real chance, I believe that we will not lose the entire construction season of 2019 and we will be able to continue this construction period. I don't want to be late tonight. It is, of course, necessary to say that the construction was supposed to be elsewhere today, so the delay is there, but in my opinion it can not be greatly increased or maybe even partially eliminated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u100	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Karla Maříková on behalf of Minister Miroslav Toman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, we have a winter here and there is a connection between skiing, but it cannot be done without technical snow due to gradual warming. No larger ski area and even skiers could enjoy the white slopes during mild winters without technical snow. And we're used to the fact that artificial snowing is winter. Although snow cannons and technical snow are taken for granted, they have a negative impact on the environment. A lot of water is wasted on artificial snow. Up to 1 million litres of water is needed per hectare of slope; for approach, the water consumption of one person per day is 106 liters. Draining more water is unnatural and has an impact on the environment, not to mention added additives to artificial snow due to increasing days when the temperature does not reach even the freezing point. According to the law, anyone who takes more than 6,000 m3 of water per year must pay for surface water collection. The exception, however, is currently the collection of artificial snow. Your ministry has an overview of the amount of surface water taken and whether it is contaminated by added additives, most often produced by Pseudomonas syringae bacteria, in the production of snow. This bacteria has an anti-mushroom effect and may also have a negative effect on fungal fibres and lead to a disruption of the symbiotic connections between plants and fungi and thus lead to the possible disappearance of certain species of plants from that territory. Does your ministry consider the regulated use of artificial snowfall or the taxation of surface water collection when we repeatedly address the lack of water in the landscape and its pollution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u102	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u103	Hello, Mr President, Madam. Within the Czech Republic water collection is currently allowed for snowing up to a maximum of 5.6 million m3 per year and last season, i.e. 2016-2017, a quantity of 3.1 million m3 of water was actually collected for this purpose. The collections shall be subject to the authorisation of the water authorities. We at the Ministry realize that there may be cases where the quantity of water taken exceeds the quantity permitted. However, water authorities carry out checks in cooperation with the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority and may grant fines of up to CZK 500 000 for such non-respect of water permits. For example, the question of water supply for skiareals during hydrologically below average periods in the future can be addressed by building their own retention tanks in which they would accumulate water at the time of its excess, and some have already agreed to do so. In the spring of last year, a substance, so-called modified heptamethyltrisiloxan, was discovered in a test sample taken in the ski resort near Monín by the state enterprise Povodí. Based on this experience, the laboratories of state-owned enterprises focused on artificial snow testing and further samples will be taken during the winter season 2018-2019. The Ministry of Agriculture is aware of the gravity of the situation. We will continue to deal with this matter and will try to eliminate snowing in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u104	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? I see you do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, is your ministry considering limiting added additives to technical snow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u106	We're gonna be taking samples, like I said, all through the season. If the quantity allowed is exceeded, we'll think about it and we'll regulate it. It is not possible to regulate at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u107	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Jakub Janda for Minister Robert Plaga. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u108	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, my intervention concerns the current Ministry's programmes, namely the challenges to support the material technical base of sport. Your Ministry currently announces two calls for reconstruction of sports infrastructure. For sports clubs or physical unity and the second, in which outside the clubs can still the municipalities ask. As far as the second challenge is concerned, it can be argued with certain conditions, especially with the fact that the sport centre of small municipalities will not again touch the repairs, even if it needs it most. However, I understand that the challenge was intended primarily for the reconstruction of urban stadiums. This is essential in the second challenge, which is intended exclusively for clubs. In this challenge, a minimum of CZK 4 million can be requested, with a participation of 30%. This means that the sports club must have secured at least CZK 1.2 million from its own resources. That's huge money for clubs that don't even have some thriving clubs. Having over a million saved is a really high amount. I understand 4 million, the intention was to fix big things and support more conceptual purchases, although I personally think it is set to make applications as little as possible, because that volume is not able to be administered by officials. But the 30 percent is really deadly. It is a lot and a number of clubs, especially the small ones again, are not really able to touch such a subsidy. Minister, that is why I am asking you if you are going to reconsider these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u109	Thank you. As the Minister is not present at today's interpellations, he will be answered in writing to your interpelation. The next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová on behalf of Minister Klára Dostálová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u110	Madam Secretary, yesterday, unfortunately, the amendment of the Mayors and Independents, which added CZK 310 million to municipalities and cities up to 10,000 inhabitants for reconstruction of local roads, failed. The state of these roads is very bad and these smaller municipalities and cities cannot afford to repair them. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development stated that there was no need to increase the budget in this subsidy programme, but you admitted that it would be possible within the next year and the state budget, respectively. Your department's budget, add some funds. So I wonder if this promise of yours still stands and whether you stand by it and how much money you are going to add to the repair of these communications. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u111	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, he will also be answered in writing. Next in line is Mr. Petr Pávek for Minister Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government. Minister of the Interior, I would like to take a complaint at this point about the procedure of your officials, which was submitted to me by a close person, regarding the identification of the address or residence of the person who disappeared from our sight. I would like to say that I am not going to read the entire complaint here because it is quite extensive, but I would reduce it in substance to the essentials. The first is that the application can be made to the Ministry of the Interior, among other things. That's what it says on your Home Office website. And what must be presented? Among other things, an application in paper form, which must contain an officially certified signature of the citizen, which is not the case where the citizen signs the application before the authority responsible for submitting the application, which was therefore the case. It also states that, in the case of a personal application to the competent authority, prove the identity of the identity card or, where appropriate, a travel document. On the day of 8. 11. 2018 So a close person at the Central Postal Office of the Ministry of the Interior at Letná handed over a completed application without a copy, submitted a citizen's ID, signed the application in front of the clerk, received the application, and a confirmed request was made by a close person to prove the surrender by a mobile phone. About 20 minutes later, another clerk, Mrs. Heřmanová, called the applicant, stating that the colleague who took over the application was new and did not know that the signature had to be verified. [[Time warning]] When... [[Time's up.]] So you think I can ask you one more time? No? Well, in that case, I'll get back to it on the second question. [[Minister Hamáček is coming to the speaker's desk.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u113	Please, Minister, if you know what to answer, then -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u114	We will resolve this by giving the Member the floor, and then I will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u115	Thank you, Minister, I take that as a helpful gesture. Because the nature of the problem only begins now. The clerk told him to erase the photo of the application from the cell phone, that the clerk was new and that they didn't accept any applications there, which is directly contrary to the statement on the Ministry's website, and she returned the application to the applicant with a stamp of receipt. It means, it doesn't actually make any sense. He could have erased the photo, but he left with a request for which he had the receipt stamp of the mailroom, which is the first thing. And the second thing, and that is the main absurdity that I see: Mrs Heřmanová said that, thanks to GDPR, she must not see the identity card of a person whose identity is to be verified. And it seems very absurd to me, of course, because the Czech version of GDPR is not yet in force, we know that, and especially officials at the Ministry of the Interior should not be overzealous and should know what the reality of the matter is and that this does not apply. I'm adding a second complaint because this happened a month and a half ago. Although the complaint was sent to the Ministry of the Interior that day, it has not yet been answered. Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u116	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u117	vážený Vice-President. Mr. Ambassador, I am very sorry that you have a trial with me, or that my person is close to you with this experience with my office. Please, by your means, I apologize to the person close to you, and believe me, I will have this matter investigated. I think you'll understand that I'm unable to make a specific assessment of exactly what happened there. I have verified how this is going, it has been confirmed to me that I.D.'s verification is, of course, part of the process at the Ministry of the Interior, and it certainly hasn't changed anything about it. So, if these workers went the way you described it, it's clearly wrong. It's a mistake, I'll have it checked out and, of course, I'll keep you informed about how the clearance went. Please, once again, by your apology to a person close to you, such a regrettable case becomes at most every ten years in our workplace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u118	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u119	I would just like to thank the Minister for his helpful and humorous approach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u120	Thank you. The next is Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, on behalf of Minister Alena Schillerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u121	Thank you. Dear Minister Schillerová, I would like to respond to the worrying article that was published on 12 October. 12. 2018 on the website of the Economic Journal with the title Šlachta Customs used military specialists from Prostějov. Someone broke the law. The article says: In June, the Customs Department followed several people suspected of organizing and managing crime in Moravia. The customs officers used 601. groups of special forces from Prostějov. The so-called cooperation of the army was requested by the Deputy Customs Officers Robert Šlachta, respectively his subordinate. But the law doesn't allow it. The sharp action then became a paper exercise on the side of the soldiers. In order to avoid too much attention and fuss, the operation became on the same day on the part of the soldiers the so-called cooperative exercises of customs officers and Prostejov specials. The reporter further stated that the aim of the event was to carry out cooperative training outside military premises aimed at conducting a special survey with emphasis on the operation of units in conducting discrete operations. The problem is that the members of the 601 Special Forces group are not, from the perspective of the law, a so-called police body, so they must not participate in the surveillance of persons and matters under the Criminal Code at all. In view of the fact that we only have information about this alleged action from this journal, I ask the Minister to answer the following questions: Does the article describe a real event? If so, why did the Customs Administration not use files that are directly intended for such activities, namely the Police of the Czech Republic? Has the Police of the Czech Republic been requested to cooperate with the Customs Administration before the Army of the Czech Republic was requested and the Police of the Czech Republic refused this cooperation? [[Attention on time.]] If it was an exercise... [[Your time, Madame!]] I would like to be assured that the information obtained by the soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic is not used in any criminal case carried out by you subordinates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u122	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing for an interview. Next in line is Mrs Olga Richterová for Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u123	Thank you so much for the floor. Greetings, ladies and gentlemen who are here, to the Minister. My interpelation is for such a very practical thing, something very specific, namely the possibility of obtaining a driving licence if you have a certain diagnosis. We've been approached by pirát by people with a diagnosis of various kinds of autism, autistic spectrum disorders. The point is that it is not even possible for them today to undergo an examination, a detailed expert examination, which would say whether the person concerned with a particular disorder is or is not fit to drive. This is a disease or a disorder, a problem that has very different manifestations and forms, and often the ability to drive does not have to be affected at all. In our country, of course, a lot of people with some sort of autistic spectrum disorder have this driving licence simply because it is a small prodiagnostic. A lot of people don't even know about themselves that they have some form of PAS. Moreover, such restrictions are not common even abroad. [[16.40 hours]] So this comment was made by organizations of people with autism when the decrees were mentioned. This is specifically the decree 72/2011 Coll. and I am interested in whether these so-called pervasive developmental disorders will be moved from Group 1 to Group 2 so that an individual examination will be possible. This is a practical thing about the normal life of people with certain not entirely normal but also not entirely exceptional problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u124	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, an initiative that I am, I confess, hearing for the first time. After all, even today, the Government Committee on Disabled Citizens operates an expert group on conceptual solutions to the issue of life of people with autistic spectrum disorder. I checked. The complaint has not yet been made within this expert group, so it has not been dealt with. The truth is that today these conditions are set out in Decree No. 277/2004 Coll., on the medical fitness to drive motor vehicles. It works by being examined by a general practitioner and may request an expert's opinion, in this case a psychiatrist or a clinical psychologist. The information I have is actually under way today regarding the amendment of the Decree, when Annex 3, point 7, group 1, point. (g) pervasive developmental disturbances have been discharged and in the same Annex No. 3, Group 2 added new pervasive developmental disorders. That's something that's technical, but I think the content is pretty clear. It is simply assessed within the competence of a physician or with the expression of an expert. But if there is a major problem with this, I would recommend that this be dealt with within that group in the Government Committee on Disabled Citizens, which deals systematically with the issue of autistic spectrum disorders and rights of these people, and that is probably a forum where there could possibly be some suggestions that should be improved. I confess that I have no further information in this regard. We, of course, work with autists differently, now we have completed the issue of a special license for autistics, who will be able to prove that they are suffering from autistic spectrum disorder, which is something that was required across representatives of autistics, so these cards are already printed today and we will now be working on their distribution, so that is also something that they can also use to prove that they are suffering from this health disability at all. But as far as this particular matter is concerned, I do not have complete detailed information about it, and I recommend that we deal with it through that particular expert group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u126	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u127	Thank you so much for your answer. Just very briefly. Just because I know that the Ministry is dealing with people with autism, I was surprised that the complaint was actually that it didn't happen. So I'm just wondering what a person should do when there's a group that deals with their issues, turns to the Ministry and nothing. So what's the right e-mail? I understand that there are working groups. But what's the sorting mechanism? What is the universal point of contact that people have to turn to so that they know that they will then gradually work towards the right working group?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u128	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u129	Thank you. I was talking about the government group in this regard, because, without a doubt, the issue of people with autistic spectrum disorder is an interresory matter, it is not only a matter of the Ministry of Health, it may also interfere with the Ministry of Transport, so it is one of the options within this group at the government level. And if anyone has a particular problem, let them write to me, e-mail adam.vojtech@mzcr.cz, and there they can contact me and I will definitely pass it on to where it belongs. It is clear that, of course, sometimes within the administrative apparatus, things are more complicated, and I also struggle with it myself as a minister, that sometimes there is something lost in the official apparatus, so if anyone has a specific problem, let them turn to me and then I will pass it on to the right place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u130	The next in line is Mr Marian Bojko for Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, Minister, dear colleagues, the pre-Christmas period brings not only joyous expectations and moments of happiness, but rather fears, stress and tears for those citizens who experience feelings of certain injustices that have experienced traumatic experiences, and the current system has failed to provide them with adequate satisfaction in both spiritual, mental and material terms. And it's Christmas that can be twice as hard for these people. I am saying all this because Mrs. Andrea Konopková and her family, who died on 7 October 2018 at the Havířov Hospital with a police clinic, have turned to me for their help under unexplained circumstances, a member of her family, who she and her mother regularly took care of there. The Konopkův family on a fateful day pointed repeatedly in the hospital according to their many years of experience during the care of the hospitalized severely ill to problems during the chosen treatment procedure. Moreover, there was a very regrettable situation after the death. The Konopkův family was expelled from a dead family member from the hospital first by security and then by local police members. In short, the rodina of Konopkův was not allowed a dignified farewell to the deceased, and I am not aware that it would be provided with professional, sensitive mental and, indeed, spiritual help in a difficult situation. According to Konopkův family's comments, unfortunately, there were also unethical, contemptible and very unprofessional remarks on the address of the survivors. The situation has resulted in a criminal complaint and has been investigated by the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps and other bodies. After studying the comprehensive and truly deeply disturbing documentation from the Konopkův family, I ask you to examine the matter carefully and let the surviving family know what conclusion you have come to. All documentation is available on request on my parliamentary e-mail. If there has been an error, please provide the Konopkův family with an appropriate apology, including an early proposal for an out-of-court settlement, in order not to shock the good reputation of the Czech health system. I have a quote from the e-mail. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'll see you next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u132	In the supplementary question, you can. The Minister will answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, let me begin by expressing my condolences on the death of Mr Lumír Konopka. Regarding the issue of dissatisfaction with care in the particular hospital, it must be said first of all that this is a hospital which is not established by the Ministry of Health, which means that we do not have direct management powers in relation to this hospital. It's a county hospital, so maybe the county can make amends. But of course, if anyone is unhappy with the provision of health services, there is a Health Services Act, which has a clearly set complaint mechanism, which must be settled first of all with the provider, if the complainant is not satisfied, then he will contact the Regional Authority, if he is not satisfied even in this case, then of course he must turn to the court. The Department of Health does not have the legal competence to interfere in any way, nor does it have the ability to control this hospital. We control hospitals that are under the Ministry of Health. This is the competence of the Regional Authority. [[16.50 hours]] If I have understood that there are still problems and the results of the judicial autopsy are being challenged in this regard, which has therefore been carried out in the Institute of Judicial Medicine of the University Hospital in Ostrava, which is thus directly managed by the hospital of the Ministry of Health, it must be said that the judicial autopsy is being ordered, and it is under a special regime, it is being ordered by law enforcement authorities. Probably there is a criminal trial conducted by the Police of the Czech Republic and supervised by the local district attorney. Therefore, while the Institute of Medical Medicine of Ostrava University Hospital is part of the provider of health services, these judicial autopsies are not in the department of health care, but it is necessary to contact the competent authorities active in criminal proceedings, the relevant part of the Police of the Czech Republic, or the supervising public prosecutor, who are in fact only entitled to take appropriate action on this matter. The Ministry of Health has no competence in criminal proceedings and has no authority in this regard and cannot order a new judicial autopsy or review of the judicial autopsy carried out at the Ostrava University Hospital. So that's what I'm afraid of. I'd very much like to meet you. Of course, I'm ready to mediate, host something, some meetings. But I repeat once again, when it comes to care in a particular hospital, in this regard in the hospital in Havířov, it is necessary to follow the law, file a complaint, which must be settled by the county office, or then turn to the court. If there is dissatisfaction with the execution of a judicial autopsy, then it must be dealt with by law enforcement authorities that ordered this autopsy, respectively. They should keep an eye on it. And it's a question that's in the Ministry of the Interior, virtually. The Justice Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u134	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u135	It's not so much a question as a thank you to the Minister, because we've already discussed the hospital in Eagle once, and it's not really in the Ministry of Health. But I just want to read what the lady wrote to me. "I thank you immeasurably and appreciate your help. We already have the results of the autopsy, but there are signs of manipulation. That's why I had to attack the autopsy and my request. I'm sending you in an annex with all the issues in the autopsy. The autopsy indicates on the periphery that a brother suffered physical violence prior to his death by hospital staff and found that the brain was swollen and found blood spatter on the liver, spleen and lungs. In addition, he was overdosed with medicines that he did not take at all and were not mentioned in the medication on the day of death or the day before. These were Tisercin and Theophyllin as active substances found in the body and blood, which appeared to have higher signs of medication than normal. Therefore, I rightly believe that it is necessary to investigate everything properly and that is why I am asking for your help." I understand you may not be able to intervene on this, but for me, it felt really suspicious, so that's why I wanted to interpel you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u136	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u137	Thank you for the floor. I repeat, if there is a suspicion that the judicial autopsy has been tampered with somehow or has not been done well, Mrs Andrea Konopková should refer to the law enforcement authorities that are likely to conduct criminal proceedings, because that is why the judicial autopsy was ordered. And they have the authority to deal with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u138	Thank you. Mr. Jakub Michálek is next in line for Minister Jan Hamáček. As he is not present in the Chamber, his application is terminated. Mr Martin Kupka is next in line for Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u139	Thank you so much for the floor. I would like to ask the Minister about the circumstances of the appeal of the Director of the General Faculty Hospital, because from her appearance just after her visit to the Minister and according to the responses of the Chief of Staff of the various departments it seemed as if she had received the famous offer that could not be rejected, and we also experienced it once in the Czech political environment that either she would leave alone or a criminal complaint would be filed. That's kind of how some of the general faculty hospital chiefs noticed it. I would like to ask about other circumstances relating to the reasons when it should be a breach of the right procedure in public procurement for companies of Horáček, an entrepreneur, but for example at the Ministry of Health, respectively. his companies also had contracts, and even during the time of the Minister, amendments to those contracts were signed, so I would like to ask whether he would propose an appeal to himself or how he would deal with Dana Jurásková for the same thing or for the same misconduct. I would also like to ask another question as to how he will deal with his party colleagues from the Central Bohemia Region, who directly advocated that Horáček's companies conclude contracts with Central Bohemia hospitals, how it all comes together and whether they measure the same metro for themselves and their colleagues, and whether they measure the same metro for Dana Jurásková, or whether it was all just an excuse to get rid of the uncomfortable director, virtually. The principal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u140	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Member, I will try to structure the answer as well as your question or interpelation has been structured. I actually took this step on the basis of a series of information. Some are information that I can't even fully publicly discuss and present. But I must say that the negotiations with Director Jurásková certainly did not take place as you presented or as she presented. I'm sure there's nothing at the hearing that says she's going to be charged with criminal charges. We did a public administrative check at the hospital, just like we're standardized to do. I told you I'd be checking hospitals more, so they're in the department of health. It is not the first public administrative control and a number of them continue to run. And in this public administrative control, yes, we have focused on the companies associated with Mr. Horáček, the first protected workshop. It was found that for some of this company's contracts - I stress for some, it is not so, it is not fundamentally wrong that there are contracts first protected workshops, indeed this company, as far as I know, has contracts almost everywhere, the police - that is not the problem, the problem is, if we see in the contract that there have been errors, relatively serious errors, violations of budgetary discipline, which have been established by administrative control, and some manipulation. And on that basis, we filed the criminal complaint against the unsub, not the principal. And once again, we would file this one way or another based on the fact that there are some cases going on today, criminal proceedings within the Na Bulovka Hospital. We think that if there's any suspicion that there might have been some kind of misconduct, it's also my duty to have the police here investigate. And if it shows that it was not a problem, it was not criminal, but, on the other hand, a breach of budgetary discipline was stated there, there was a breach of the Public Procurement Act. This is what I told the former principal. The debate was, of course, conducted in the sense that we would agree that she would simply end. And she said she wouldn't quit, that she was convinced that she had done everything right. And I said I didn't have confidence in her based on a lot of information, and that I would call her off. But there's never been anything about a criminal report, or that's how it was built. I absolutely refuse to do that. Even a witness was there. So there's evidence of that. But I don't think it's relevant. What matters is the material. And I think that it is within my jurisdiction, if I simply have no confidence in the director of the hospital that I direct, on the basis of certain information that is also confirmed, and on the basis of, for example, public administrative control, it is not something that is somehow beyond the edges or was not legitimate. [[17,00 hours]] As regards contracts at the Ministry of Health, respectively. One job, a cleaning order, so I must say that it was already competing for my predecessor. The company worked there. And I say again, it's not that any contract is a priori wrong, unless there's been an error. But I decided to end my cooperation with the company because there were quite a lot of complaints about it in terms of the quality of its services. However, it is clear that someone has to clean up and that it takes time to write a contract and compete. So it's clear that there must have been a transitional period for a few months when this company was still there. But then we competed and we competed with another supplier of these services. I don't see anything wrong with that. It was perfectly in accordance with the law and originally the company was competed with my predecessor and we only needed to resolve it during some transitional period so that we could compete with a new supplier who is now supplying cleaning services. So there's really no reason for anyone to be called off. Or that there'd be something illegal. And as for those Central Bohemia hospitals, yes, I overheard the information, too. I'm not happy about this, but I have no competence in this regard to intervene. [[Time warning]] And it has to be handled by the police, which I think is investigating.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u142	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u143	The way I understand it, the interview took place, you pronounced the suspicions, and you took them as grounds for appeal. Then I want to ask how you will do this in the case of your colleagues in the government, where it is not only a suspicion, but also a prosecution or a real interest of the Police of the Czech Republic. If you're as consistent in this direction as you are. Because that's what I would expect and expect. And as for my colleagues in the Central Bohemia Region, then I accept the answer you mentioned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u144	Thank you. The Minister is interested in answering. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u145	So, as far as my colleagues in the government are concerned, I think this is not in principle related. I'm responsible here for direct hospital management, virtually. an organization at all. There are about 70 of them under the Ministry of Health. And this is a management question. If the control finds fault, and it doesn't have to be criminal at all, this isn't about the level of criminal law, this is about the level of violation of budgetary discipline, the error in the award of a public contract, a contract that wasn't completely small, it was about cleaning services for about CZK 230 million, so I'm just doing it. And I have to say, there was a lot of that information. Again, not all of them can be presented publicly. And it's about trust. And if I'm responsible for these hospitals and I'm supposed to run them and it's in my jurisdiction, then I just want to have confidence in the directors who run them. I don't see anything wrong with that. This has nothing to do with politics or any political plane. That's really just a management question. So that's it. And as far as Central Bohemia hospitals are concerned, I don't appreciate it. Of course, I have some information that may have been in the media. But someone else has to check them out. I don't even run Central Bohemia Hospitals. Again, just like I said in the previous interpellation, there are hospitals that have regions under them, these hospitals run the regions, and they have to check out what was going on in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u146	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Dana Balcarová for Minister Dan Ťok. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the demolition of the station building of the High-Chan Railway Station and the flooding of the old historic tunnel. As part of the optimization of the Mstětice-Vysočany track section, an old railway building will be demolished due to reconstruction, which at the moment offers people who travel and spend quite a lot of time in this building while waiting for their train. [[He's showing a photograph.]] In fact, this railway station is also serviced for the Central Bohemia Region, where people then transfer to the Vysočanská metro station. The building currently offers a large railway station hall, there is a restaurant, there is a social background, there are about a hundred seats. It's an old building, but it offers some comfort. There's a tunnel under the station. The tunnel is quite famous not only for Vysočany, but for the whole of Prague, it is absolutely unique. [[It's pointing the tunnel to the frame.]] We see it sometimes in contemporary or even in contemporary films when they want to bring about the atmosphere of the past century. It is from 1870 about and is one of the oldest which are in Prague. And it's also very beautiful and has a specific atmosphere. And this tunnel is supposed to be buried as part of the reconstruction, and toilets are to be built in its place. It seems very ruthless to me, and I don't understand why this is even happening when the building is operational at the moment. And instead, there's only gonna be a built-in little hall where there's only cashiers and about ten seats, which is totally inadequate. So I'm interested in your opinion on this solution to the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u148	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u149	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, to that station. The issue of this railway station Prague-Vysočany is solved in the construction of the optimization of the line section Mstětice - Praha-Vysočany including. The intention for this construction was approved by the Central Commission of the Ministry of Transport on 12. 7. 2016. For the sake of completeness, I'll give you the basic data of this construction. Investor is SŽDC, designer of SUDOP Praha, expected implementation year 2019 to 2022. The total investment costs approved according to the documentation for the zoning decision amount to CZK 4 000 434 128 excluding VAT. And now closer to your interpellation. The railway station Prague-Vysočany will be modernised in the extent of the current state. The station's shipping building is in a detachable state. The current operating situation on the railway does not require maintaining the scope of the station building in its current state. Reduction and adaptation to current conditions is necessary. The transport of lump consignments is not carried out, traffic has been carried out in such a way as to reduce waiting for trains, etc. During the reconstruction of the railway yard, construction modifications are necessary to reach the part of the existing underpass. Therefore, the investor of SŽDC proceeded to a major reconstruction to the following extent: The existing passenger building will be demolished, replaced by a new check-in building situated in the area of entry from the existing subway from the streets of Podnádražní, Paříkova. The platforms will be divided into three, of which two islands with a length of 300 metres, one outer one with a length of 200 metres, including a roofing of at least one third of their length. The platforms will be connected by a reconstructed extended underpass in a new position in the mile 6.533, which will also create a pedestrian link between the streets of Paříkov, Podnádražní and U wine cellars. In addition, both island platforms will be connected by a new underpass in 6,726 kilometer, for access by passengers from Krátkého street. Handicap access to the underpass in mile 6.533 will be provided by escalators and elevators and underpass in kilometer 6,726 will be connected to the street network of pavements. And just in principle, you asked for my own opinion. We have a problem at the stations in general today, in that every station has built not only the main passenger building, but a lot of buildings around it. And I asked, and I want the SŽDC, and now they're setting me up with conceptual material, a strategy for how we're gonna treat it. Because we've mostly preserved all the stations in the current state, renovated and got ourselves into an absurd situation where the building is renovated, new, and empty and unused. Ninety percent of buildings end like this. [[17.10 hours]] It's even going into such absurd situations that I've been dealing with interpelations here - e.g. in Luhačovice, where we fixed the whole station, but since there is no service and it is experience that if we leave the building unattended, it begins to destroy and vandals simply damage it in an inadequate way, so it is simply a problem that we have repaired the station and no one there. The municipalities don't want to go there, and the passengers' service ends with them coming to the same locked building. So she won't demolish herself. So, in principle, I want us to leave at the railway station or at the railway line the railway station capacity that will be needed for the operation, which will be used, and that there is not something that will be left empty and will not be used in a reasonable way. What you were showing are things, I agree with you, who have such nostalgia then traffic, but here is simply a mix of economy and enough money to keep that network and station operational and dignified, with the fact that the money is not, and then it has an impact on the operation of the entire line, especially regional lines. There may be another situation with the Vysočany, but here I tried to explain the reasons that led the Central Commission and the Bureau to the step that led him to. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u150	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u151	I would just like to say briefly that we have dealt with the representatives of both the investor and the designer several times and we have tried to convince them that the building is also urban, given that it closes the central Vysočany towards greenery, to the green slope of Jetelka, which is right above it. And if there's no building, there's only gonna be open pens, there's a lot of wind. I just think it's gonna bring down comfort for the passengers, even from the point of view of the background. I don't know about this building being in a demolition state. It is not only used for transport to Prague, i.e. The Central Bohemian Region is serving on the metro, but it is also available on weekends, there are Pražans heading north towards Mácha Lake and in that direction, to Bakov nad Jizerou and to other places. So I don't really know what to imagine under a demolition state, under an evaluation like this. But I was gonna say, there's a branch of the City Library right next door, one small room where people can't fit in. [[Time warning]] And I imagine the local government would be able to use that space for some civic amenities that are very lacking in that area. [[The President Thanks]] So I just wanted to fill it in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u152	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u153	Madam President, as he sometimes sounds here, because I am a friend myself, so I will invite you to a meeting, or I will invite you to a meeting. I'll invite Mr. CEO of SŽDC to do it. I don't know what stage it's at, because if it's supposed to start in 2019 and if we're gonna change the project, it's gonna be a big complication. But if you're saying that the city section would be ready to really use the building and commit to it, it could change the situation. But let's get together and see what the reasons are. I have no reason not to believe that this building has its static problems or even qualitative problems, because otherwise, I believe, SŽDC wouldn't have written me into the files. But let's talk about it. And you're invited either to SŽDC or to my place, and I'm happy to attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u154	Thank you. Next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová to the Minister Jan Kněžínek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u155	Dear Minister, firstly, the conflict of interest law forces public officials in the smallest municipalities, where they receive minimum remuneration for their work for the municipality, to reveal their property. Those who fail to fulfil complex administrative duties are already prosecuted for offense. Secondly, on 20 November, the government decided not to publish the amount of remuneration paid by ministerial advisers who could receive CZK 100 000 in their work, and they could significantly, in extreme cases, influence the distribution of public funds in the order of many billions of crowns in the interests of third parties. The reasoning is very brief - GDPR. Thirdly, there is a dispute about the publication of the payrolls of the castle Chancellor Mynář. In this dispute, the court decided that their publication was in the public interest. However, the mynář continues to refuse publication and opposes the decision of the court. I didn't hear it was a matter of criticism from the government. These three examples are paradoxical. I see a tendency that says that the greater the amount of resources you decide or co-decision, the smaller the interferences to your privacy. Yes, I admit that the case of the castle chancellor is specific when he opposes a court decision. But the signal that's sending it to the public is pretty awful. What do you say about this tendency, and what do you say about its impact on the principle of equality before the law, which, in my opinion, violates both Mynářův's disregard of the judicial decision and the selection between quotes equal, as is the case with government advisors? Wouldn't it be worth considering the whole concept of transparency? It's hard not to seek purpose in some phenomena. We're scaring somebody, not somebody. What about it, Minister? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u156	Thank you for keeping the time to interpel, and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kovářová, honourable Members, on this issue, there is, of course, a difference between those other situations, because the conflict of interest law quite clearly defines who is a public official, and then the legislation contained in the law affects him, and the contrario cannot be viewed as a public official. At the same time, it must be said that, as far as municipal policies are concerned, here this year, on the basis of a rather extensive debate and considering some balance between transparency and privacy protection, an amendment to the law on conflicts of interest has been adopted, limiting the scope of data publicly available through that register of notices of municipal politicians. Moreover, the law is now being reviewed by the Constitutional Court, but that is a chapter for itself and I do not want to go into it. However, what is essential is the obligation arising from the law, and therefore the GDPR regulation cannot be applied in this case, or may be some kind of guide when considering some regulation in the future. On the contrary, in the case of advisers of central administrative authorities, members of the government, a similar law which explicitly states that their income is subject to a similar transparency regime as in the case of public officials under the Conflict of Interest Act. This is also why it was necessary to revise the methodological documents, government documents relating to the disclosure of data, in order not to violate the data protection regulation, namely the GDPR Regulation, and in accordance with this Regulation, it is not possible to disclose these data automatically on the Internet without the consent of the person concerned. On the other hand, even in the case of advisers, it will apply that, if they receive funds paid from a budget chapter of the State, they are the beneficiaries of public funds within the meaning of the Court's caselaw and therefore information on their name, surname, community of residence and the amount paid to them would be subject to publication under the Free Access to Information Act. It means there's no point really in any way to conceal information about which advisor, or possibly. even for what, he got what reward, but the point is it's not happening in the automated way. However, such information shall be provided upon request. And as soon as they're provided, the Free Access Act also states that it's only then that they're supposed to get on the Internet. [[17.20 hours]] At the same time, I can say for myself that I currently have no advisors, so there is nothing to publish. However, if I were to accept someone as an advisor, I would certainly want that part of the agreement between me and him is that he will agree to the disclosure of these data and that would not be the problem in terms of GDPR regulation. As far as the case is concerned, the dispute between the Office of the President of the Republic and the applicant for information concerning the salary of the Castle Chancellor. I don't want to comment on a specific case. However, I don't even know if the proceedings have already taken place in the light of the review before the Supreme Administrative Court. I feel that the Municipal Court has decided there and maybe there will still be an appeal. However, for myself in general - I have always taken the rule for myself, and it is one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law that judicial decisions are to be respected. But for myself, I add that the party to the lawsuit is not actually the chancellor here, but the Office of the President of the Republic as an organizational branch of the state itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u158	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u159	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You mentioned that you did, if you had a consultant, that you would want to make part of the agreement that their income would be made public. And will you recommend that to the other ministers? Because I think that's a pretty good idea. First of all. Secondly, I would like to ask whether you are considering unification of the legislation so that it applies to the advisers, if the ministers did not do so voluntarily in agreement with their advisers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u160	Thank you. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u161	Thank you. I feel that perhaps even this question was discussed just as the government discussed the point. Of course, I can give such a recommendation. It is a question of how much my authority will impress that such a recommendation should be respected. But I suppose there are a number of other members of the government who view the matter in a similar way. With regard to some authoritarian unification, this would, of course, only be possible through legal regulation, because obligations can only be imposed on the basis of law and within its limits. Here I can say that, in the course of the next year, there is a presumption that a government proposal - which will be submitted by the Ministry of the Interior - will be submitted to a law on free access to information that may address this issue. I don't know. I'm not saying it. However, there will be, where appropriate, room for debate on this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, if the law is open. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u162	Thank you. I'll read the apologies before we proceed to the next interview. The first is from Mr Radek Rozvoral, who apologizes today from 16.15 to the end of the day for working reasons and Mrs Ivana Nevludová from today's session of the Chamber of Deputies from 17.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mrs Olga Richterová is next in line for Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u163	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Dear Minister, I would like to ask about the Ministry of Health's plans to promote a kind of humanization of the Czech obstetrics, or to approach trends that are often quite common, namely whether the Ministry intends to in some way support the possibility of continuous care of midwifes for a healthy woman, a healthy child during childbirth. Continuous care provided by one person at the time of birth, childbirth and postpartum. Ideally, whether there is a plan to support the birthing of birthing houses, even in the hospital premises. That's one question. I'm asking because there's a new public petition going on right now. It is clear that this is what is needed in our country. The second thing is to support breast-feeding. Unfortunately, according to recent research, the number of fully breast-fed children leaving the hospital has fallen in the long term. Since 2003, their number has decreased by almost 10 percent. It's a pretty big problem, because breast-feeding is basically the basis for supporting the relationship between a mother and a newborn baby. It is important for the good health of the child and last but not least it is much cheaper than artificial nutrition. It follows that our obstetrics do not observe different kinds of important to promote successful breastfeeding, various types of counseling, on the other hand, artificial diet is offered. Sometimes feeding is 18 percent of the cases according to the survey and without the informed consent of the parents. On the contrary, 64 percent of women have not been informed that they should breast -feed according to the needs of the child. That's one important thing. And finally. Standards of quality of care in our country, in the field of obstetrics lack standards of quality of care. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you. I'm curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u164	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Richterová. Indeed, this is a very important subject and I think we are paying special attention to it. I devote myself to him, and even the government, virtually. a government council that discussed the issue of birth homes as well. We discussed this, so if I start with the birthing houses, quite intensively with the professional company without a doubt. I myself have talked to a number of supporters and opposers of the birthing houses on this subject, and we have finally come to a compromise solution when we want to create something we call today, professionally, but it will probably also be in the future, a birthing assistance center, where such a centre would actually meet the standards that are called for, in terms of some background, in terms of approach, from the point of view of the birthing of the midwife. But this birthing center would really be within the hospital. The reason is that we perceive these voices, on the other hand we perceive the need to ensure and guarantee the appropriate quality of care. And yet, and I think that a number of experts will confirm that, even though childbirth is physiological, and it seems to be without complications, sometimes it is impossible to avoid the complications. Hypoxia, the various problems that may arise are simply unpredictable, and in such a case it is necessary that a doctor is available if the fetus or mother is threatened, who will really be very close. It won't be disproportionate at some point, but it will actually be within the hospital. This is what we have come to, and we want to introduce these centres gradually. We are the first to agree with the Hospital Na Bulovka, which is actually the furthest ready to provide these specific services so far. Today, I have even read the report that it is already declaring a small-scale contract, for some modifications within its maternity home, and therefore has an interest in building a similar facility. I suppose next year might be a good time to open it. He'd be like the first pilot of that delivery center at the Hospital on Bulovka. The General Faculty Hospital expressed the same interest within the hospital U Apolinařa, which is also currently working on the project of the facility. So it's something we really think has meaning. And if this demand is, it could satisfy those who call for a certain other approach, after the birth should therefore be led by a midwife. Of course, that's probably what is supposed to happen, but it's a question of the agreement of the particular maternity wards that births would possibly be led by the midwife associated with the parent. She's a community midwife, but of course she has to meet certain quality standards again. We just assume that's how it's gonna work. We are currently discussing this, and I think we are already on a very specific level within the framework of the pilot project in the hospital in Bulovka. [[17.30 hours]] As far as the standards are concerned, we have translated the WHO standards, the World Health Organization that we want to apply now, so I think that, as you said, it is missing today, so we would just like to inspire WHO. And as far as breastfeeding is concerned, I have to say here that breast-feeding is absolutely essential, and I also use this opportunity to appeal to him to really pay attention to nursing, because it is very important in terms of disease prevention, not only in the child, but also in the mother herself in terms of preventing breast cancer, etc., the prevention of obesity in young children. There have been huge studies in America that show this clearly. We also want to work on this from the point of view of education and guidance in these centres to ensure that the parents breast-feed properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u166	Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u167	Thank you very much. It is very comforting to know that, in cooperation with Bulovka and apolinář, such a new option is about to be missed by our country. I'm very glad for that. I am also very happy for the specific dates that it could be possible to give birth in this way in Bulovka next year. That's great. At the same time, I am also interested in whether you will actually support some transformations, so that there is a chance in existing maternity houses to have floors led by midwifes, that there may not be separate objects, but that it is possible to support even methodically such developments, even in regions outside Prague. Then I want to ask if for those WHO standards, where I very much acknowledge that you had them translated, you have actually translated the complete material, which contains relatively detailed references to resources, to scientific studies proving individual things, or whether it has been translated completely. [[Time warning]] The last question - what are you going to do specifically to support breast-feeding? Maybe I'm trying to ask these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u168	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u169	Thank you for the floor. When it comes to the birth centers, she's really gonna be part of the maternity centers. We don't expect to create new birth homes, virtually. new buildings, but we really want to divide part of the maternity wards into the possibility of providing these services to the midwife and leading the birthing. Undoubtedly, some methodological support for the future is possible. I agree, though I think that our obstetrics is at a very good level, and in terms of results it is confirmed, newborn mortality, etc. is one of the lowest in the world, but it is clear that there is always something to improve in terms of access to parents, and on this I think we also agree with the various representatives of the maternity centers. It's about some communication, etc. That's a thing that might be a little bit longer, but I'm sure we'll be working on it. The standards have been translated, now I don't know exactly how much, we can still talk about what you mean, but as far as I know, the WHO standards that have been translated are simply so that we can apply them. If it's completely complete, I can't say right now, I'd have to ask my colleagues. As far as breast-feeding is concerned, I cooperate and communicate with the National Lactation Center, which works at Thomayerův Hospital, which seeks this support. I think it's about some kind of education, about having to work with mothers, for example, birth assistants, who have to be educated in it. I think it should be their role, but, of course, some education about the fact that breastfeeding makes sense, that it is important in terms of prevention, we will certainly be working on this with the National Lactation Center, for example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u170	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Marian Bojko, who will interpel Mr. Adam Vojtěch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u171	Mr President, honourable members of the government, Minister, colleagues, my interpellation concerns a poor system setting where employees of OKD occupational disease or after the consequences of accidents at work must submit to a review committee only at the Karvinská Mining Hospital, a.s. hospital, which is a private entity, in my opinion, in an objective and in a manner of conflict of interest. I have a fundamental suspicion that there is a condition that, due to the private ownership of the hospital, which is owned by the employer of the affected miners, reports are issued that do not correspond to the real health status of individual employees. According to me, the information provided is to the detriment of the employees and the employer. I have a specific case of Mr. Kryštofík, a mining paramedic who suffered an occupational injury at the mine, but was released from a general illness unspecified. I have doctors' names at my disposal. On the other hand, where a medical error and an incorrect assessment were evidently made due to the interest of both the third party and the owners of the OKD. The affected miners receive rents, are released for general diseases, even if their health is destroyed by work in the mine or they are at risk of occupational disease. All you can do is defend yourself in a court of law, which is costly and time-consuming. And KHN lawyers are counting on a lot of OKD employees to endure this financial and psychological pressure. What a terrible thing it is that a worker who destroys his health in the mine is released without being adequately financially rewarded and has the chance to make a call at all in such cases. I can document this information on request. My question is what can be done about this, Minister, in order to ensure that the assessments are actually made objectively and impartially. I understand that these comments are probably part of the Gesture of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but since they are happening in the hospital, I have turned to you, Minister Vojtěch. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u172	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u173	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, it is very difficult to respond to this. Of course, I'd have to know the specific case. Generally, medical assessments are, of course, regulated by the Act on specific health services, which allows or describes the method of filing appeals, the obligation of providers, etc. So there are obligations in the law. If they are not followed, then, of course, the specific case needs to be dealt with. I'm willing, if you'll give me the specific case, to have it checked. Maybe I can talk to my colleagues at the OKD because I've been in touch with them since I worked at the Ministry of Finance. I don't know what the problem may be, but I repeat, in the law, the demands and obligations are quite clearly specified. I cannot, of course, rule out any particular failure of a particular individual to expose any opinions that are incorrect. Yes, anything is possible, of course. We can never rule out the human factor completely. That's what the legal mechanisms are for. I'm offering if you give me the background, I'd be happy to look at it and see if everything was okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u174	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u175	I would like to say in particular that Mr Kryštofík gave me the documentation completely with everything. There is also a statement from the Regional Authority, which has completely challenged the medical opinion of Mr.Knybel, I will name him, who simply eliminated Mr.Kryštofík for some unspecified general illness. In this report from the county office, it's obvious that it was the result of an accident at work. County officials will tell you, not officially, of course, but when I talked to them about it, it happens all the time, that these people don't have a defense. You don't get a chance to make any calls, only by court, and the trial is so long, these people are just gonna give up. They don't have a chance to mentally endure it. I can speak from my experience when I actually got sick on my spine after many years of mining work as a mining paramedic, unfortunately I got sick of disease and was eliminated from general illness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u176	Thank you. The Minister is interested in responding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u177	Thank you. So, of course, it's very complex, the fact that it's happening, I can't rule it out. We may even take this as an incentive to change the law. Although it is necessary to distinguish between the medical opinions that are in the field of occupational medicine and the medical assessment service that concerns the Social Security Act, when it is assessed whether the person, for example, is qualified to be granted an invalidity pension and the like. That's a bit of a different area. We as the Department of Health, for my part, can deal with the specific health services law, which deals with medical advice and the so-called medical opinions that are being issued. Medical assessment service from the point of view of disability assessment, etc., is then at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But I'm sure I'll look into it and have it checked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u178	Thank you. The next interview is Mrs Karla Maříková to the Minister Richard Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was approached by the inhabitants of Jenišov in Karlovy Vary, where the company Sedlecký kaolín mining of kaolin should take place. Locals are rightly concerned about health, as large amounts of deadly arsenic were found in the laboratory in samples of water flowing from the quarry towards the village, and a large amount of ash (?) would be released during extraction. dust that causes asthma and cancer. The mining company is benefiting from outdated technology, even though the European Union's obligation to use the latest mining technology available is to minimise damage to human health and the environment. In this context, I ask you to answer the following questions: When should mining take place and for how long is it planned? And does the company have the necessary permits? Is the Ministry aware of the negative impact of the potential extraction of kaolin on human health and the environment, and what possible steps will it take to minimise damage? Any mining can affect the quality of air in nearby Karlovy Vary, which is a world spa and strive to register on the prestigious UNESCO list. Were any impacts on air quality considered and the management of the city of Karlovy Vary also informed about this? How will the drainage of large amounts of water containing the mentioned arsenic by the Chodov brook to Ohře in Karlovy Vary be prevented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u180	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, thank you for the interview, my colleague, through Mr President, allow me to address you all, my fellow survivors, because you have not been left behind much, and that you have endured it to the end. I know the situation there, and my colleague knows it, quite well, because I have been there, even twice, to talk to the inhabitants of Jenišov. The introduction is very short. I find it unfortunate that someone could have allowed the construction so close to the protected bearing, because the bearing is protected there, as I learned with some closer interest in the location, for a very long time, and certainly longer than it was decided to build in the immediate vicinity. The question is, did anyone ever tell those people during construction or before construction that there is a protected bearing area on the deposits of kaolin, and, of course, in that area, kaolin has been mining for decades. So I wouldn't understand it as some kind of failure of the community, and that's the thing I know they were dealing with themselves. First of all, I would like to point out that the Ministry of the Environment does not issue any mining permits, which is solely the responsibility of the Mining Authority, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The Ministry of the Environment issues, like dozens of other authorities, only one of the documents necessary for the issuance of a permit or non-approval of intent. This basis is in this case the opinion of the EIA, i.e. the impact of the project on the environment, which is the result of a technical process which is also reviewed under clearly defined conditions, or by a court within the framework of subsequent authorisations. In this case, it would be a mining permit. This process is really purely professional, it takes place completely under the law of clearly defined conditions and from the position of minister, and I have said this here several times in several other cases, I cannot enter it in any way, even though a number of people, associations, associations and municipalities are turning to me and they are reaching out to the Ministry for that intention to stop or, on the contrary, to allow it. Of course, everyone can only be told that logically, it is not possible to enter it in any way. Even a number of petitions can play no role there. The intention of expanding the conquering space of the Peace area, the conquest of the Kaolín Kaolína Božičany - Smolnice, which concerns your interpelation, was subjected to the EIA process in 2014. The Ministry issued the agreed opinion on 17. 10. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Ministry of the Environment issued a binding opinion on the verification of the compliance of the EIA 2014 opinion with the new text of the relevant European directive, thereby making this opinion binding and valid under the new European legislation. However, the investor has not yet issued the mining permit decision itself, so he cannot start mining. When or whether the Mining Authority will issue this decision, I cannot presume at this point. With regard to the length of mining, the investor seeks to exploit approximately 14 to 16 years. The second question concerning the negative effects of the production of kaolin on human health. I want to assure you that the influence of the intention on public health has been evaluated in the EIA process. According to the public health impact assessment, the implementation of the project in question will not substantially change the exposure scenario of noise and air pollution and therefore is not expected in connection with the implementation of the plan to increase the existing level of risk to public health. In the EIA process, effects on surface and groundwater have been assessed as moderate and acceptable in the hydrogeological assessment, provided that the proposed measures are complied with. The EIA opinion contains conditions for the protection of water. [[Attention on time.]] Sorry, just one last sentence. In the case of new facts currently identified, it is necessary to contact the Water Authority or the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority. If necessary, I will add the rest to your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u182	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The fourth question was how will the drain be prevented by a large amount of water containing the arsenic by the Chodov creek? My other questions are what are the risks of Jenišov being drained downstairs, Mountains, Peace and adjacent to a multi-mile belt of unstable spills reclaimed for billions of Sokolovská uhelná, and whether the locals will be offered some compensation for the complications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u184	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u185	I will add the third question, which concerned actually possible influence on the quality of air in Karlovy Vary. I didn't have the other questions at the moment, but I will answer them in writing in time. The third question. The impact of the intention on air was also assessed in the EIA process. At the end of the dispersal study, it is noted that mining in the expanded conquering area of the Peace area will not increase the ambient emission load due to the emission contributions of the project under consideration above the set limits. The dispersal studies did not identify facts that would prevent the implementation of the project in question from taking into account the impact on air quality. The negative impact of emissions from the operation of the project will not cause its surroundings to exceed binding emission limits. According to a dispersal study, on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the apparent impact on the air of the project in question, the applicable rules adopted for air protection in the environment are tolerable. The Municipality of Karlovy Vary is the administrative authority concerned with the EIA process, so it was informed about the individual steps relating to the EIA process. [[17.50 hours]] It should only be taken into account that the City of Karlovy Vary as a self-governing authority did not have the status of the local authority concerned in the EIA process, on the grounds that the intention does not lie on its territory or any influence according to expert evaluation on its territory at all. We will address your further questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u186	Thank you. Another is Mr Jan zahradník, who withdrew his interpelation. Mr Jakub Michálek is next in line. He's not present in the hall, which means his interpellation is failing. I'm going to ask Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková to interpel Minister Robert Plaga. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u187	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister of Education Robert Plaga about the free lunch issue. The proposal for free lunches for pupils under 15 years of age supports loudly both your Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and a colleague from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and the Education Minister Kateřina Valachová. While you yourself have called the proposal a godly one, the solution should be different from the whole world. Do you think you can handle this pressure you're going to be exposed to? And do you also realize that a non-elastic solution introduces inequality in conditions for children? Where do you want to stop with the free idea, in fact, of other people's money? Don't the seniors, the poor, the mothers and the singles need free lunches? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u188	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing for an interview. Furthermore, there is an enrollment in the order of Mrs Věra Kovářová to the Minister Jan Hamáček. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u189	Dear Minister, I have received a disturbing report from the Czech News Agency of 15. 10. 2018, which reveals to the eye the beating corruption taking place at Prague Castle. This is a corruption merry-go-round between the political party SOZ, Chancellor Mynář and entrepreneur Pechan. Mr. Pechan, through employees of his companies, gives money to the party of SPOZ and gets back lucrative contracts at Prague Castle. However, these gifts are often mediated through planted companies and so-called white horses. Their goal is tax evasion. The case is already under investigation by the police and the damage to tax evasion is estimated at CZK 3.5 million. This is not the first time this party has been associated with the machinations of the funding of political parties and electoral campaigns. For example, on the last presidential campaign of Miloš Zeman. Dear Minister, since your resort is in charge of political parties' affairs, I wonder how you view these cases connected with the court side of the head of state. Don't you consider changing the legislation for them? How do you view, as a member of the government, that the Office of the President of the Republic is likely to have a special-purpose overpriced public procurement, as revealed this week? Obviously, it cannot be demonstrated that these funds are to be used to finance political activities. Even so, this is an extremely serious act. What will you do to prevent it from happening both in this particular case and in general? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u190	Thank you. It will be answered in writing. Next in line is Mrs Olga Richterová for Minister Jana Maláčová. And it'll probably be the last of the interpelations, because the last of the interpelations is given at the latest at 17.55 hours, so you'll still be able to make it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u191	That's great, I'm glad I can have the last interpellation of today. Greetings not to the survivors, but to all of you who are here in the hall. I would like to comment on how our very overloaded bodies of social-law protection, the so-called OSPODs, work, and the file service on them. My point is that this is essentially a very important office, with which everyone who is divorcing in our country comes into contact, or anyone whose children may have some educational problem. Likewise, they are very important care authorities at risk, whose parents may have died or are not properly cared for. At the same time, these authorities suffer greatly from the overload of their workers, i.e. most of the workers, suffering from the fact that there is no good work in the writing service. And that's more closely related to my impulse today. I understand that the Minister is not here, but it's been a few times since he's absent, so I believe that the written answer will be complex. The point is that the files kept on the OSPOD in written, paper form, not electronically, are being disposed of very quickly today. And then those discarded files can't proceed, putting on another OSPOD according to the child's permanent residence. That means that the file must actually be requested from the archives, and if the family is moved, so that the child's permanent residence will change, he can no longer manipulate the file outside the office. So such writings can be best lent. This loan is not further adjusted and it is simply very complex from a methodical point of view. Everything is complicated, there is no continuity of social work with the family, so the procedures of the OSPOD are unpredictable, there are differences in the interpretation of the conditions for setting up the file. I'm wondering if the Ministry is planning a change. Instead of archiving, use some warehouse before archiving, some other way of storing files that OSPOD is currently not working with. So that's my question for the MPSV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-20-ps2017-024-07-003-196.u192	As the Minister is not present, he will be answered in writing to your interview. I am now of the opinion that we have ended the discussion of oral interventions for today's meeting day. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m., points from the third reading block. Thank you and I wish you the rest of the day. Goodbye.
