ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u1	41. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, namely the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the rankings of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been divided into benches for you. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. Before I give the floor to Mr Dominik Feri, the first elected Member, let me read a few apologies. Mr Milan chovanec apologizes for this afternoon's meeting for working reasons, Mrs Lucie Šafránková apologises from 14:30 on personal grounds, Mr Radek Rozvoral apologizes for the afternoon's meeting of the subcommittee on sport, which he is a member of, Mr Aleš Juchelka apologises from 14:30 to the end of the meeting for working reasons, Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologises for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 14.30 to the end of the meeting and tomorrow for the whole day, Mr Jiří Kohoutek apologises from 14.30 to the end of the meeting for working reasons, and Mrs Věra Adámková apologises today between 14.30 and 22.00 for working reasons. I am therefore now giving the floor to Mr Dominik Feri, who was drawn first to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš. Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u2	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's pro forma, the Prime Minister is excused. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use this space to open the problem of preparing an amendment to the Service Act. Unfortunately, neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister are here to explain why the law, which promised the stability and professionalism of the state administration, is changed by a government that did not gain the confidence of this House, in addition to a five-day commentary procedure with a narrowing of the number of comment points and, moreover, without carrying out an assessment of the impact of regulation. It is not customary to discuss draft laws that have not yet been consecrated by the government, but subjugating the State Secretary directly under the Prime Minister is not a thing that could leave us cold. Unfortunately, we live at a time when the government decides to fire professional deputy officers at early morning meetings without prior and visa. In addition, it happens to be the Deputys who do not have the party identifications of the YES movement. Naive is the idea that the establishment of a new directorate will not cost anything and that is why the RIA is not being implemented. Many of the problems of the Service Act referred to are not addressed at all in the amendment or are even deepened by the proposed changes. Other problems are addressed and will certainly be used as an argument as to why it is necessary to approve the amendment in the submitted version. From a broader point of view, the state service situation is also worrying in combination with cutting off external commentary proceedings and removing a number of up to now functional quality control tools of government legislation. I leave their assessment to the Rector, profesor Vladimír Smejkal, who described them as the dumbest legislative activity in 2017. And it's not quite easy to get into this selection when the government only has two weeks to do it. But she did it. For the context, it deserves to be mentioned in the galleys of the discussed replacement of the Legislative Council of the Government, which is currently not convened at all or is cancelled. Ladies and gentlemen, my questions may be premature, but this does not change their importance to the Czech public administration and the legislative process. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u3	The Prime Minister shall be excused and shall reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Markéta Pekarová Adamová, who was drawn in second place, will perform with the next interview. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister in resignation, the planned transfer of the drug policy agenda from the Office of the Government under the authority of the Ministry of Health is a risky move that may have a number of negative effects. Drug policy is an inter-ministerial matter. Coordination of several ministries dealing with the issue from a different point of view will be very difficult to deal with only one of them. It starts to happen exactly what you criticize so often. The issue will be reflected in the struggle between the ministries, and the resortism will then logically reflect on the quality of dealing with drug problems. The consequences in this case can indeed be very negative and fall on the whole of society. One of them may be to increase the risk of spreading infectious diseases. Under its responsibility, the DEA promotes all kinds of prevention, including, for example, the harm reduction principle, which aims to minimise, reduce or mitigate the risk of life and health-threatening infections including, for example, AIDS or hepatitis B and C. For example, if this part of the drug policy does not work properly, there is a risk of increased prevalence of used syringes in public spaces and associated risk of spread of infectious diseases. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to urge you not to pulsate a functional system that has been built here for over two decades. You are shielding yourself with efficiency, but the system is effective in its current form and fulfills its function well. I ask you to communicate how you will stand up to this issue and, if you are determined to do so, as you will ensure that the coordination of the ministries works, that the services will continue to be financed transparently and that the system will simply work well. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u5	The Prime Minister is excused, so he will also reply in writing to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak with the next interview and Mr Ivan Bartoš will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u6	Mr. Prime Minister, last Thursday, I asked you about your statement on the address of Mr. Mynář and Mr. Nejedlý, who, in your opinion, are doing business on President Zeman's head. I asked you what you would do with this as Prime Minister, but without an adequate answer, which is evident from the look back into the Chambers of Steno Recordings. Apparently there's been a lack of understanding of the nature of my question. In doing so, you rejected one possible measure, a disagreeable position with the proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Office of the President of the Republic. First of all, I wonder what the source of your information is about the fact that Mr Mynář and Mr Nejedlý are doing business on the head of President Zeman, and I also wonder exactly what kind of conduct these gentlemen are doing according to your information, virtually. they did. If this were to happen, the question arises whether, in their personal interest, they even affect some foreign policy or internal policy actions by President Zeman. This would be contrary to the interests of the Czech Republic and, of course, such a phenomenon should also be dealt with by the government, which is the supreme authority of executive power. In any case, it is imperative that you clarify what problematic actions the President's chancellor and advisor are committing according to your information. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. The Prime Minister, who is excused, will answer you in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ivan Bartoš will speak with the next interview and will be prepared with the last interview again by Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u8	I would also like to thank Mrs Pekarová Adamová for raising this issue with us. Dear Prime Minister, in recent weeks, we have had the opportunity to record some of the radical steps you and your cabinet have taken. The most visible example is the currently planned transfer of the Department of Drug Policy from the Office of the Government to the Ministry of Health. From the point of view of the operation of the department itself, but also from the point of view of a number of experts from the Czech and foreign environments it is completely counterproductive and according to the pirát even a special-purpose step which aims to degrade and completely weaken Czech drug policy. In addition to many others, there is a risk that there will be a significant reduction in funds that go into services that help people in the field every day. [[14.40 hours]] I contacted you with a letter in which I submitted relevant arguments in four areas. Thank you for your answer. However, the answer rather relativizes the problems, and from my point of view, your aim is rather to sweep the whole thing under the carpet. So I ask you in this way to answer my real questions. 1. Did you consult this proposal to move the department with independent experts from practice, outside your own team of people? If so, then with whom and what arguments did they make? Did you have time to meet with the head of the department and hear his arguments? 2. How do you imagine the functioning of this inter-ministerial department under a closely profiled Ministry of Health, especially in areas related to police, legislation, the creation of a network of services, cooperation with prisons or other issues with interference with international policy. The government's office today deals with a policy of gambling, tobacco, alcohol, along with illegal drugs. Do you think this will continue to be possible from the position of mere director of the department of the Czech Ministry, which the former director of Vobořil state has? 3. For what reason was my intervention followed by SAO control in the department when it was recently in the department and its conclusion was that the department works exemplaryly and is fully transparent? [[Attention on time.]] Please refrain from this step and reopen the debate over your original intention. Hear the real arguments of the experts. Thank you for your answer and your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with the last question of interpelling the Prime Minister, Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak. And I will only inform Mr Bartoš that the Prime Minister is excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, because of the constitutional change that took place five years ago, it is not possible for the head of state to decide to grant a so-called abolic pardon, which means the end of the prosecution, without countersigning the Prime Minister or his authorized member of the government. More clearly, President Zeman can no longer decide on his own that someone's prosecution will be stopped. He always needs the signature of a member of the government. It is practically a statement of responsibility, which the government takes over for stopping a criminal prosecution that has already begun. It is based on the fact that if the answer to the question of whether or not a crime has been committed is not to be learned from the court if it is to be swept away from the table of police and prosecutors' work, the government must agree with the President to stop the prosecution. In fact, such criminally prosecuted will stand outside the law, outside the law, above the law. And that's what we've been talking about lately, and that's what we're talking about in connection with the Chapi hnízdo case. You're close to President Zeman, that's no secret, and the risk of a pardon to you as a criminally prosecuted prime minister and his closest is no longer small. In such a case, however, the entire government would have to take responsibility for this act. And as you understand, that's not a small thing. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, how would you vote in such a case? Whether in the case of Capi's hnízdo, you would support or not your loved ones' grace for yourself and your loved ones. And I'm also interested in the reasons for taking over or not taking responsibility for granting such a pardon. The principle of equality before the law is in play. Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u11	I also thank the lady for keeping her time perfectly. The Prime Minister shall be excused and shall reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I hereby point out to the Chamber of Deputies that all applications have been exhausted for the Prime Minister in terms of intercession. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I therefore call on Mr Ondřej Profant to give an interview to the Minister of Health, Mr Vojtěch Adam, to launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mrs Olga Richterová and also Minister Jaroslava Němcová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u12	Dear Minister, I want to ask you about the open data. Open data is a phenomenon of modern times that contributes to the transparency of public administration. You reflected it in your government's programming statement, too. But it is also an element of internal control and cooperation between institutions, which is very important. It is important for feedback, for comparison of workplaces, for the work of journalists and so on. I know you personally dealt with open data in your past activity around health insurance companies. However, within your resort is the Institute of Health and Information Statistics of the Czech Republic, which lives somewhat in the last century. I think his statistical work is somewhat wrong. And they themselves admit that in many ways they have inaccurate data, which is one of the arguments why they do not publish it. I think it is appropriate that we have the exact dates for this institution to carry out its activities, that is, to collect accurate data and publish them in a given quality. That's why I want to ask you what your plans are in this area in your department and then in addition to taking into account the UHIS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u13	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. The Minister of Health, Minister Vojtěch, has the floor. Please, Minister, you have your five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u14	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I really must agree with the Member that the issue of open data is also very accentuated in the Government's programming statement. I think it's a very important area, and I'm doing everything I can to publish the open data. I think they need to be divided into several parts. There are data that really is not a problem to publish, and I have already started right after my work on doing it, and these are data on the management of the resort, ministries, data on meetings of various commissions, which are a number of instrument commission, which divides the instruments, so that it is clear on what basis, on which data it divides these instruments within the Republic and so on. I have worked for several years at the Ministry of Finance, where we have used the open data quite significantly or published it, and I want to inspire myself in cooperation with my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance to create it in a similar way. After all, the Ministry of Finance received several prizes for this as part of transparency. So I'm sure that's what I want to do at the Department of Health. Then there are data relating to different registers, different epidemiological data, data on the health of the population, performance and status of the network of providers, etc. These are the data that the IHIS administers, i.e. the Institute of Health Information and Statistics. In the past, some steps have already been taken to ensure that this data is also available, to serve citizens, or some subjects who are involved in research and assess health care in the Czech Republic. A number of portals have been created that have some validated data printed across the board, published. For example, I would like to introduce a new portal of the National Register of Health Providers, a new portal mapping palliative care and care data at the end of patients' lives, a portal that is prepared for every region of the Czech Republic publishing open data on the health of the population, the performance of health service providers and network status, an extensive portal on cancer epidemiology, and then issues of noise maps and so on. So something has been done, it is not entirely true that nothing has been done, those online platforms are currently more than ten, and with these UHIS platforms by the end of the year they will effectively replace the obsolete format of publications of various spreadsheets and yearbooks. In this regard, I agree with the Member that the previous activity was actually from the last century, it was very primitive data that could not be used too much for the purpose of the open data in order to be able to work with them. But here at this point, I can promise that by the end of the year, these online platforms with open data will actually replace the obsolete system of format publications of various spreadsheets and yearbooks, as I have already said. And then, of course, there are sensitive data, these are the primary data, which are actually based on statistical surveys of the resort and health registers, which unfortunately do not go public under applicable laws, especially the Data Protection Act or the State Statistical Service Act. But at this point, we are preparing a substantive bill on electronic health, as well as the thing that I started immediately after I joined the Health Department, because I think we need to electronize, we really need to share the data and share some data, if possible and corresponds to the law in particular for the protection of personal data, so we need to share it with the public. I think that, on the basis of this law, it will indeed be possible to publish this data safely, but there is a need for a change in legislation. [[14.50 hours]] So I guess it's not like we're doing anything. I'm at the resort briefly, you know that, but I want to inspire myself, I say, first of all, what other resorts have been doing over the past years, and secondly, I really want to push the UHIS to make those online platforms with open data available and accessible. They were open to the public as well as to various organisations dealing with research in health care, and this will be done by the end of 2018, with the fact that we are, of course, working on various other projects within the Open Data Working Group at the Information Society Council. For example, we will publish information contained in the register of registered medicinal products or in the national register of providers of health services and medical devices, which is managed by the State Institute for Drug Control and the like. So we're working on it and give us some time. But I hope we meet the expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u15	Well, Minister, thank you for keeping the time. And I am asking Mr Ondřej Profant if he is interested in an additional question. [[A deal off the mic.]] You're not interested in a follow-up question. So I call on another, second in line, Mrs Olga Richterová, who will interpel the Minister Jaroslava Němcová, and Mr Jakub Michálek will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask about the functioning of the Labour Office, so it is up to Minister Němcová, with the fact that it is an administrative office that has national competence, and how it works today, as we as the House are the only place that can actually contribute to improving that functioning. I'm a member of the Social Policy Committee, and I believe we'll be there to deal with it. But these things are happening right now, so I'm going to take this opportunity to ask if the Minister knows that today benefits are not paid in terms that, in a situation where we as people, as ordinary citizens, have to meet every deadline in relation to the state, the Office of Employment does not respect those deadlines very often, and then people have big problems. They have nothing to pay for. Today there was a big report on this on Radiožurnál, about how due to unpaid benefits from October last year, they actually owe their clients, for example, in shelters, and the asylum house gets into a lot of trouble. It's a system problem. It is not one branch in one part of Prague, it is all over the Republic. People from Liberec are calling me, people from Hradec Králové are calling me. Apparently, there's a system base all over the place. And they're the parents of little children waiting in the clock queues, often from early morning hours. These are foster parents, people with disabilities, people in material distress, as has already been said. So my question is, what's the reason? And the long-term base also has some root cause, it's not the cause in itself that no one wants to do it. There must be a reason no one wants to do this. How it's systemically set up, how those employees have a chance to communicate with the management of the communication. I believe that we will be dealing with this on the Social Policy Committee, but I also ask for an answer on what you, as Madam Secretary, are going to do about it. It's a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u17	Well, thank you, Madame. Jaroslava Němcová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, has the floor. Madam Secretary, please, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u18	Hello, Madam President, honourable Members. Thank you very much for asking, Madame. Yes, it's true, the labor authorities are in my line of work. To bring it closer to you, it's a total of 350 workplaces that pay, manage uninsurable benefits. There are 5 184 employees in these 350 workplaces throughout the Republic. Monthly, these employees administer one and a half million doses. For your information, it's about 300 doses a month on average - every employee who's on the counter, that means at least 14, 15 doses a day. That means the information I have so far from the Labor Office that some variable waiting time, the average waiting time is about half an hour, so the numbers are consistent so far. Otherwise, the benefits are CZK 6 billion a month. I am aware of possible problems in the context, now temporarily in connection with the entry into force of new legislative changes since the beginning of this year, especially in the area of, for example, the benefits of state social aid, housing allowances and child allowances, if any. The aim of these legislative changes was to respond to the current income of families and to their living situation, where, for example, in the field of child allowances, it is now crucial for the amount of the last quarter's contribution, not the whole calendar year, as has been the case so far. In this context, however, there may be an accumulation of clients particularly in some days at certain specific workplaces, as the Member said. We monitor the situation very closely. I've been in the field several times since the beginning of January, I've been in client work, I've been going through it with clients. Such fatal shortcomings - I have no information about them. I attend regularly, at the same time the Deputys, the Regional Director of Labour Offices, the Director General at my meeting every week. However, we are prepared to evaluate the impact of those legislative changes, which have been effective since 1 January, during the first quarter, and we will definitely take action if necessary. However, at this point, I do not think that these would be some sort of systemic flaws. I will ask the Member if she has specific experience or specific questions from the field, so I will ask a written question, if necessary, and I will certainly check it out, and we will certainly look into it on the Social Committee, where we meet and we will see each other very regularly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u19	So I thank the Minister and ask Mrs Olga Richterová if she has an additional question. In case you do, your one minute. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u20	I was still wondering if, in addition to evaluating how these legislative changes are now being reflected, if there is also going to be an evaluation of the routines that are being done now, type, something I know personally, when a request is being made for extension of parenting, which is only one signature, if it can be communicated electronically, so today it is at those overcrowded branches that means dozens of hours of waiting with those young children, so if the evaluation is going to be digitized, the state administration is electronized in this helpful direction, for example, so that the request for extension of parenting goes in a data box. Today, really, even though you're trying hard, you're really informed, they're gonna find out that you can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u21	Well, thank you, Madame. Madam Secretary wants to answer, about your two minutes. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u22	I'm sure I will. I'll answer the lady and all of you. Of course, I've commissioned such an analysis at the employment offices, and we're really going to do it. I know that legislation can only come at some point, another digitization may still be longer. However - and I know that it will not satisfy people - that is, after some initial evaluation we will try to be the first to introduce possibly at branches or at client workplaces where it will be necessary, even organizational changes, possibly, I don't know, extension of time reserved for clients and so on. So I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u23	Thank you, Minister. I am now calling on Mr Jakub Michálek to give an interview to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, and Mr Petr Gazdík will be prepared to interpel the absent Minister Robert Pelikán. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read one apology. From 15.05 to the end of the day, Mr Marek Výborný apologizes for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to address the issue of the digital economy in my interview. The digital economy is a phenomenon that has hit a lot of areas of human activity starting with accommodation. It also applies to so-called shared transportation, which means that people order transport via apps on their phone, for example. services such as Uber, Liftago, Taxifs. There are a lot of services and there is a relatively interesting new economic segment. I approached Prime Minister Sobotka and Minister of Transport Mr Ťok about a year ago with the government dealing with this area, prepared some new rules, because when we have a new phenomenon here, it would be absurd for us to try to push him into the old rules. It would be as if, after the invention of the car, the government was trying to apply the same rules to cars as to horse carriages. I just can't. New legislation needs to be prepared. And unfortunately, the government is working very slowly on this legislation. I asked the Minister. I received statements from him from ten business meetings that he had with the representatives of interest organizations, and there it is obvious that it is going round and round, because of course every interest group wants to assert its interests. So they repeat it over and over again, and it doesn't go for anything. I think that politicians who are elected in elections are responsible for the laws of the Czech Republic. I wanted to ask the Minister to create a working group to deal with the digital economy on the ground plan of this working group and put together a proposal for an amendment to the Road Transport Act, which would regulate these new phenomena and which would be approved as soon as possible, because every other day, which is not approved by good laws, means that here we are giving space to companies that are doing illegal and harmful to Czech entrepreneurs. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u25	There. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is not present and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. So now I call on Mr Petr Gazdík to intersect Minister Robert Pelikán. Mr. Jan Farský will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u26	Dear absent minister, my colleague Věra Kovářová applied a similar interpelation to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, but unfortunately because of his absence she did not receive an answer. I therefore ask at least in writing and in advance for that answer to be clear, yes or no. I'm asking you. Five years ago, the rules for granting an abolic pardon have changed, and the Head of State cannot now decide on the outcome of the prosecution itself, but only with the agreement of the Prime Minister or his appointed minister. Now some members of the government are talking about this possibility, which is why I am asking. If President Zeman had decided to do so, the accused Prime Minister would, paradoxically, have co-decided himself or whoever the accused Prime Minister would have entrusted him with, and the entire government would have taken responsibility for this act. In this case, how would you, please, vote specifically, Minister? To grant abolic grace? Pros or cons? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u27	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. And Minister Robert Pelikán, who is absent, will answer you in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. There. I now call on Mr Jan Farský to interpel Mr Robert Pelikán, and Mr Ivan Bartoš will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u28	Dear absent Minister of Justice with no confidence in demise, allow me to ask for the statement made by the accused Prime Minister on Friday 19 January at the Chamber of Deputies, when he announced that he could order prosecution in the Czech Republic, and thus not indirectly but directly accused the authorities involved in criminal proceedings, in his case at least police officers and supervising prosecutors even from the Supreme Prosecutor's office in that they may be controlled by the Mafia or the Mafia. I am convinced that you, too, were so surprised by that statement that you couldn't even respond, and we didn't get your statement on Friday. Since it's been six days since then, I hope you've already taken some steps to prevent this. So that either this disinformation, which should only be part of the defendant's defense speech, you can dement it, or you can rule out that something like this is happening in the Czech Republic. The basic reasons why you have to intervene from my point of view are two. One is national. At the moment when the second richest citizen of the Czech Republic says it is possible to pay for prosecution, it is clear who can pay best and who can order them and, at the same time, the ordinary citizens are denied justice. And it is important that you also give this answer from the position of the Czech Republic in Europe, because for the Czech Republic to have this sign, it is extremely harmful for the Czech Republic. [[Time warning]] Thank you for the answers in which you will sum up what steps you have taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u29	There. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is excused, so he will answer you in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I now call on Mr Ivan Bartoš, who will interpel Mr Adam Vojtěch, and Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová will be ready again for Minister Vojtěch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u30	Dear Minister, I am addressing you directly on the planned step of the government in which you are a minister. This is an entirely unprofessional intervention in the functioning of the DEA, respectively. his transfer from the Office of the Government to the Ministry of Health. In the opinion of both the professional public and the pirát, this step is dangerous. I've been communicating with Prime Minister Ing in the past few weeks. Andrej Babiš, I am now addressing you as well. I sent a letter to the government, and there I mentioned four relevant areas, which are fundamentally threatened by this planned and, above all, already launched step. I therefore believe that my letter has been consulted with you and you are already familiar with the reservations and risks of impact. I therefore ask you to respond to my following questions on this matter. One. How this restructuring was planned and who was the originator and whether there was a record of any action or explanatory note to this decision. Two. If there were to be a move in the end, is there any plan to include the entire agenda under the Ministry? It is possible to make this document available to opposition Members in a specific regime or, where appropriate, in a specific regime. to disprove our fears? Three. In addition to the budget of the department, which will be moved by this step from the ÚV to the Ministry of Health, and thus the optical need to save on the government, can you convey specific problems in the current positively evaluated settings that address the transfers, and the real benefits that this restructuring will bring? And four. It is known that a draft of a new national strategy will soon be being prepared for the next decade. How will you ensure in the Ministry of Health that such a serious document with an impact on such a long period will have sufficient attention and guarantee a modern approach when unfortunately we have experience with the long-term inability of the Ministry of Health to solve similar problems systemically? Thank you for your answers, which I am sure interest both in me and in the professional public, organisations that cooperate with the DEA under the Office of the Government. [[Attention on time.]] Even our international partners in this area. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u31	Thank you, Mr Bartoš. The Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch has the floor. Minister, your five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, first of all, I must say that I feel that there is a bit of a storm going on here in a glass of water, because there has indeed been no decision on this matter. The government didn't decide. There is no decision that the department will actually move to the Ministry of Health. So far, only the discussion has opened, the discussion is going on. There will be several meetings next week, including the meeting of the Prime Minister with Mr Vobořil and others. I'll meet with the Association of Nonprofit Organizations myself. So it's more of a thought. The idea is led by the fact that the Office of the Government should rather function as a service organization for the government, for the Prime Minister, and that those agendas that are factual there should go to material departments. And I don't think drug policy has anything to do with health care. On the contrary, addiction is primarily a disease, which is why we really need to focus primarily on the health system so that it works, so that the prevention of the negative effects on crime, social impacts, etc. After all, when we look in the EU, most countries have this issue under the Ministry of Health. I did an analysis. Seventeen states have drug problems under the Ministry of Health, only four under the Prime Minister, respectively. under some government office. So it is not true that it is an anomaly in the European context as well. I'm not saying it doesn't work out very well today. But I don't think the fact that this... or not, I'm not saying it isn't at all confirmed yet that the agenda has moved to the Department of Health, that it would have any major impact. [[15.10 hours]] After all, the Ministry of Health is already the coordinator of e.g. areas of tobacco and alcohol. This is part of the Department of Health section and is also the case in other states. We are a gesture of legislation in the field of drug policy and in the Ministry of Health there are fully functional inter-ministerial groups on the issue of alcohol and tobacco, where the Ministry of Education, Labour and Social Affairs, etc. So we're already running a certain drug policy agenda that has that super-directive, inter-ministerial character, that's where these groups work, and I don't think it's going to work in any way fundamentally wrong. So I'm sure we don't want to tear anything down. We want to make it more efficient. The truth is, today, the drug problem really has a few heads. He really isn't the only one in the DEA. There's the Ministry of Health, which has a certain sense, it has money in its budget, i.e. funds are allocated to several locations. And now the question is, what's effective, if it wouldn't be better to actually run the area from one place, so that it would be more efficient. After all, the subsidy programmes that we manage, and we also manage some of the drug policy subsidy programmes, work that way. We write grant programs, and also within the evaluation of the Supreme Audit Office, these all subsidy programmes for drug policy at the Ministry of Health were evaluated as transparent and no negative comment was made by the SAO. I don't think that thing is black and white. As I say, I repeat, there will be a debate. There are several meetings next week, and I'm sure nothing's decided. But what I think is that this thing really should be dealt with from one place to be effective and that drug policy works, and I think it can work very well both within the Office of the Government and within the Ministry of Health. As far as the specific questions are concerned, I can possibly answer them in writing, but I think I have said the basis. But it really has to be said that nothing is decided.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u33	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Bartoš whether he is interested in an additional question. Yes. Mr Bartoš wishes an additional question, so your one minute. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u34	I wanted to first thank the Minister for being present and for answering my questions. I'll send him the document, of course. I assume he has the letter. And I wanted to ask, and the question was whether only Prime Minister Babiš and Mr Vobořil were going to attend this meeting, but indeed if people who are relevant in the field, even our foreign partners, would be invited to do so. Because the Czech Republic is one of the four, as you mentioned here, but it is the position under the Office of the Government that is judged to be very positive and functional compared to the narrow profile focus of the Ministry of Health. So my question is whether experts in the field will be included in the debate, or rather political, only among Prime Minister Babiš, or rather. You and Mr. Jindřich Vobořil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u35	Thank you, honourable Member. The Minister wishes to respond. So, Minister, you have two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I said it. On Monday I have a meeting with an association called A.N.O., the Association of Nonprofit Organizations. They asked for an appointment with me. So there will be organizations that are also dealing with the drug problem, and we'll deal with it. So it's really not just on the Prime Minister's platform and Mr. Vobořil. I don't even think it's about Mr. Vobořil's person. I'm a little disappointed that maybe he's mediating this thing too much, I say, at a time when nothing's decided, but that's his thing, of course. But we're really going to talk to those, as you say, experts or organizations that are targeting the fight against drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u37	Thank you, Minister. I now call on Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, who will intersect Minister Adam Vojtěch, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself, and again it will be an interview for Minister Adam Vojtěch. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to freely follow up on my previous speakers, because I'm asking the same question, which is why I have the advantage of some of the answers, and they're giving me a little bit more. I am interested, Minister, in your opinion. What is your personal opinion on how this issue should be addressed? You have said here that in many countries this is a health issue, but Mr Bartoš has already rightly pointed out here that this is our very system, which is also highly praised abroad and considered the best possible. Because drug policy is really an interdisciplinary, interdisciplinary issue. It is not only a matter of health, but above all a matter of social, educational, control or repressive. That is why I consider a step that is intended to be a really bad and present model, on the contrary, one that we should protect ourselves and try not to piss it off. Coordination of different ministries makes one of them very complicated, if possible. It is hard to imagine how the Ministry of Health will deal with e.g. The issue of selling drugs via the Internet, which is becoming a modern phenomenon and is an increasingly common way of distributing drugs among young people. Or how the Ministry of Health can participate in solving the growing number of children and adolescents who gamble and lose money on the Internet through various betting games, the issue of drug distribution among prisoners, etc. etc. A reckless move could then cause a collapse of the system and its significant damage. That's why I want to appeal to you, as I have appealed to the Prime Minister in his previous interview, so you can think this thing through properly. And I want to ask, because the word efficiency is used as a spell, which would make it really more effective, specifically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u39	The Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch has the floor. In the meantime, before they arrive at the speaker's desk, I'll read one apology. From 15 to 16 o'clock, Mr Ondřej Polanský apologizes. Now, Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have said a lot here, I will try to repeat some of this, maybe expand. I think the inter-ministerial cooperation might be. I was just saying that in relation to tobacco and alcohol, which falls within the Ministry of Health, and it is also an inter-ministerial question. I say, even in our country, inter-ministerial groups work on the issue of alcohol and tobacco, where all departments are represented, because it is also not just a question of health, although primarily yes, because it is an addiction, and as I say, addiction is primarily a disease. So we primarily have to aim to deal with the prevention of addiction, or maybe. treatment of people addicted to both alcohol or tobacco and drugs. So I think it's possible. Efficiency is that it would actually be solved from one place. That there are several of these places today, of course, something the Ministry of the Interior is doing, but most of all it is the Office of the Government, but also the Ministry of Health. There are allocated funds separately within the budget, etc. So I think the solution, if it's centralized in one place at a time, can be more effective in this regard. My opinion. I think both solutions can work - both within the Office of the Government and the Ministry of Health. I don't think there's a major breakdown of the agenda. After all, I myself have been communicating repeatedly in previous years, when I was in the field of health, with Mr. Vobořil. I think our relationships are also quite at a good level, and we have also talked about this. He's not exactly a priori against it moving to the Department of Health. There would only be some conditions that the agenda would go over completely with people, etc., which I think can be accepted, we have no dispute there. That's more of a technical question. So we talked about it, but like I said, it's still at the debate stage. I don't think I have any more to add to that. There's gonna be a few meetings next week, and then I think there's gonna be some sort of final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u41	I thank the Minister and ask the Member... ano, the honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. So you have one minute. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u42	Perhaps not so much about the question, as more about the comment that you often argue with tobacco and alcohol, but that is legal drugs, so she is a little bit different in dealing with illegal drugs, where the influence of the interior is really a little bit different. I think that it would really be very good to consult the experts who deal with the issue and put it on their recommendation, because they have been doing this for 20 years and their opinion, as far as I know, is probably uniform, and that is that there should be no change. So it should stay the way it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u43	Yes. I'll ask the Minister if he's interested in responding. He's not interested in responding. Thank you. Let's move on. I now call on Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel Mr Adam Vojtěch, to prepare Mr Dominik Feri. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u44	Dear Minister, because of the constitutional change that took place five years ago, it is not possible for the head of state to decide to grant the so-called abolice pardon, which means the end of the prosecution, without countersigning the Prime Minister or his authorized member of the government. More clearly, President Zeman can no longer decide on his own that someone's prosecution will be stopped. He always needs the signature of a member of the government. It is practically a statement of responsibility, which the government takes over for stopping a criminal prosecution that has already begun. It is based on the fact that if the answer to the question of whether or not a crime has been committed is not to be learned from the court if it is to be swept off the table of police and prosecutors' work, the government must agree with the President to stop the prosecution. In fact, such criminally prosecuted stands outside the law, above the law. And that's what we've been talking about lately, and that's what we're talking about in connection with the Chapi hnízdo case. President Zeman and Prime Minister Babiš are close to each other, that is not a secret, and their power pact is a risk of pardoning the very criminally prosecuted Prime Minister and his closest ones who are being prosecuted because of the $50 million scam. In such a case, however, the entire government would have to be responsible for this act. As you understand, it's not a small thing. I therefore ask you, Minister, how would you vote in such a case? Whether in the case of Capi's nest you would support or support the pardon for Prime Minister Babiš and his loved ones. And I'm also interested in the reasons for taking over or not taking responsibility for granting such a pardon. The principle of equality before the law is in play. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u45	I thank the Member and the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch has the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I do not quite know how to respond to this interpelation, because I think that the interpellation is intended primarily to answer questions to the Minister for a particular Member or Member concerning the current issue and problems relating to the ministry that the minister is managing. You know that I am actually willing to answer all the questions and comments concerning the Ministry and the health sector, very honestly and with maximum humility. But I'm not willing to answer, and I don't think I'm even obliged to answer questions that are really tabloid, speculative. I just don't know of any intention of the President to grant anyone an absconding pardon. I don't know if he'd ever call it a night. So I'm not really going to be here to develop such unsubstantiated speculation. And I think it's more like a pub somewhere, that we can talk about it, we can speculate, but not on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u47	I thank the Minister and ask whether the Member is interested in an additional question. Yes, I see he's interested. Madam, your one minute, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u48	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Anyway, if there was a situation like this and you had to deal with it in the government, would you consider the government and the government's actions to be in the pub?
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u49	Thank you, Madame, and I'm asking... Yes, I see the Minister has an interest in responding. Minister, you have two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u50	Mr President, honourable Members, as I say, these are indeed absolutely absurd speculations. If, as if. I just don't have any information that anything should happen in this regard, that any abolic grace should be granted. So we can just really talk about speculation here, if you're interested in it, we can really talk about it for hours. But I think we should deal with a bit of a matter of substance. And I think the government doesn't approve or approve of this abolacy. That's where the Prime Minister or his authorized member of the government will countersign. That means the government as a whole doesn't decide that. So I think that in this respect, your question to the Minister of Health really is, I have a feeling, maybe some kind of provocation, it's probably going to be broadcast somewhere, so that's how you want to deal with it. But I think I answered, and I don't want to discuss it any further. It's just speculation. I understand we're doing politics here. But I'd like to talk about the health issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u51	Thank you, Minister. I call for another in line, Mr Dominik Feri, who will intersect the absent Minister Robert Pelikán, and Mr Radek Holomčík, who will intersect the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you remember last week when Andrej Babiš said the following: "We live in a country where you can order prosecution and probably put someone in jail. " After making this statement, the Minister of Justice Pelikán was asked twice to comment on this statement, which means either to confirm it or to dement it. The Minister has not taken this opportunity. And I think you all know what silence means, too. Dear Minister, if you really believe that we are living in a country where you can order prosecution, I would very much like to ask you about the price list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán is not present, he will answer you in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I now call on Mr Radek Holomčík, who will interpel the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, to prepare Mr Jiří Valenta, who will interpel Mr Tomáš Hüner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u54	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, the media was informed a few days ago that the Customs Office seized 6 million worth of clothing for counterfeiting of the trade mark. These cases are quite common. In 2017, customs officials seized clothing and accessories worth over CZK 82 million, footwear worth over CZK 46 million or sanitary supplies worth almost CZK 4 million. And here I'm asking the first question. How many seized goods are destroyed? Because I haven't been able to trace this as opposed to the numbers I quoted here. Law No 355/2014 Sb. In certain circumstances, it allows for the provision of confiscated goods for humanitarian purposes. I know this is not the most pressing problem of the day, but it is a waste, both ecologically - the consumption of resources without any benefit - as well as humanitarianly. Such goods could help, for example, vulnerable children and families. Of course, I respect the right of the owners of the trademarks. On the other hand, I would like to call for some elegant solution that will not harm their law and at the same time prevent unnecessary waste and allow us to use already manufactured goods to solve humanitarian problems. And here's the second question to the Minister. Are you going to deal with this issue, after all, with the Ministry of Finance? And don't ask any questions. I would like to offer this way, if you decide to address this problem, the help of pirate Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And Mrs. Finance Secretary Alena Schillerová has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, honourable Members, first of all, it should be noted that the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic, which falls within the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance, is not the only body of the state administration that ensures and subsequently destroys goods that violate intellectual property rights. So the Ministry of Finance's department is not the only competent authority to fight counterfeits. Others are Czech Trade Inspections, Police of the Czech Republic. [[15.30 hours]] In the area of customs supervision, it shall enforce: Customs administration of intellectual property rights pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council 608/2013 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by the customs authorities and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 608/2013 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by the customs authorities. 1383/2003. This Regulation is designed to provide rights holders with legal protection as quickly and efficiently as possible, the basic principle of the regulation being the destruction of goods suspected of violating intellectual property rights, without having to decide whether the intellectual property right in question has been infringed. The destruction shall take place on the basis of the consent of the two parties to the proceedings, of the person who has secured the goods and of the person who holds the intellectual property right. This procedure may be recorded in virtually one hundred percent of cases of goods secured under customs control, as this is the way in which the right-holder is least burdened by both administrative and financial considerations. In this case, the right-holder is obliged to incur the costs of processing the action, to pay the charges relating to the action and to await the decision of the competent court. Of course, there is also a possibility for the goods to be decided in a court of law, but the opening of such proceedings is for the decision of the holder of the right and not for the decision of the customs authority. Regulation No 608/2013 allows without a decision by the court whether the goods are counterfeit, the use of secured goods only for educational purposes, training and education, and only on the basis of the consent of the right-holder, I would like to underline this. However, only by decision of the court as to whether the goods are counterfeit may the transfer of goods for humanitarian purposes be carried out under the conditions set out below. The basic principles of Regulation 608/2013 - speed, efficiency, minimum administrative and financial burden of participants - are adopted by Act No. 355/2014, on the jurisdiction of the customs authorities in connection with the enforcement of intellectual property rights. Even under this law, secured goods can be destroyed, even without a judicial decision as to whether the goods violate intellectual property rights. The agreement of the two parties is sufficient for a decision to be taken on destruction. This is clearly accelerating and administratively simplifies the process of excluding goods suspected of violating intellectual property rights from trade flows and thus from offering on the national market. As a result, virtually a hundred percent of the cases of secured goods are again destroyed in the so-called simplified procedure. Law No 355/2014 allows the transfer of counterfeits for humanitarian purposes from both customs supervision and the domestic market, in a situation where goods are forfeited or seized, which initially assumes the filing of an action by the holder of intellectual property rights, which does not happen because it is more administratively, financially and time-consuming for the rights holders. Therefore, if the conditions for forfeiture or prevention of goods are fulfilled, the Customs Directorate-General may decide to transfer counterfeits for humanitarian purposes. However, as part of its decision-making, DGC must take into account, in particular, that humanitarian purposes mean the provision of the basic needs of the population, which has been in a difficult situation of life or has been affected by an emergency. Furthermore, the Customs Directorate-General must take into account the condition that counterfeits which are faulty or dangerous cannot be transferred for humanitarian purposes. In the case of textile products, this would include the duty of the Directorate-General for Customs to carry out appropriate analyses or analyses to ensure that the products do not contain, for example, mold spores, phthalates, colorants that could cause allergic reactions, or whether, for example, children's footwear meets strict health standards to promote healthy leg growth. All of this would carry quite a high cost. This may also be added to the obligation to pay customs duties for any counterfeits detained in the customs procedure. It is known from practice that relatively high costs have also been incurred by receiving organisations in connection with the removal of protected designations from counterfeits themselves. It should be added that the technology of counterfeit manufacturers has advanced from the initial mere sewn of protected designations to more sophisticated methods and in a large percentage of cases, such as footwear, the protected signs cannot be removed from counterfeits other than by violating the substance of the material and thus destroying the counterfeit. An important fact is also that the consent of the right-holder is needed for any transfer. [[draws attention to the time]] One last sentence, I dare say. Nevertheless, the Directorate-General for Customs is currently in contact with representatives of organisations representing interests such as visually handicapped persons with regard to the possible provision of counterfeits for humanitarian purposes. In the event of a change of legislation, it would then be possible to transfer it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u57	Madam Secretary, but we are already very benevolent beyond the Rules of Procedure. I'm sure there's room for an additional question. I will now ask if Mr Holomčík is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u58	I'd like to ask the secretary if she could finish reading what she's prepared at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u59	Great, thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u60	Thank you. Ambassador, I'd like that. I would, of course, like to say, first of all, the conclusion, which I think is most important, that it can be added that there are currently not enough counterfeits suitable for transfers for humanitarian purposes for the above reasons, as I have just presented here, which is why only one property transfer contract for humanitarian purposes was concluded last year. Nevertheless, the Directorate-General for Customs is currently in contact with representatives of organisations representing interests such as visually handicapped persons with regard to the possible provision of counterfeits for humanitarian purposes. In the event of a change in legislation for Regulation 608/2013, it would be the direct introduction of the possibility of transferring goods for humanitarian purposes, or in the case of Law 355/2014, it would be a change concerning the possibility of transferring goods secured for humanitarian purposes without a decision by the court that the goods infringe intellectual property law, thus simplifying the situation for the transfer of goods for humanitarian purposes. About your two questions. I'm not going to tell you exactly the volume of the goods, but I'm able to deliver them in writing. If we're gonna worry about it. Of course. Customs have been dealing with intellectual property issues for a very long time. There's not much to talk about. Customs can either be seen on the road, or we are watching them on illegal gambling or other things, but they are not aware that they are doing a huge amount of meaningful work, and I think that very well and with great knowledge, because it is a very complex issue that requires a great deal of knowledge of both European regulations and national regulations. They are helping to liquidate this illegal market. Anyway, based on what I said here, it's largely, if not mostly, a harmonised area. This means that we would have to create simplification of these regulations, especially at European level, which, of course, I do not resist - the debate. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u61	I now call on Mr Jiří Valenta, who will interpel Mr Tomáš Hüner's Minister of Industry and Trade, and Mr Vít Rakušan, who will interpelise the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová, will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, it can be seen that the European subsidy of CZK 14 billion to build high-speed internet networks in the Czech Republic has caused nothing but excitement and concern instead of really moving our significant handicap in some way. For a long time, the MIT has not been able to write its incompetence or challenge because of various pressures. And when it finally succeeded, in the first round with more than 11 billion crowns, three companies claimed only 50 million crowns. And so it is almost clear that this subsidy will not be exhausted, which I personally consider to be a huge sklendrian, who goes above all to your ministry, even without your personal guilt. And now for my question. What is true of the fact that the MIT is preparing a new plan for how to deal with these unused funds, if they were not completely lost? You want to move 7 billion into the ICT subsidy program and shared services, from which funds are drawn, for example, for the construction and operation of data centres, which is quite different from the planned and necessary coverage of high-speed internet. Moreover, over 6 billion are already allocated in this programme, so there is enough money. Moreover, in order to move part of the subsidy there, a proposal for a change of programme would have to be drawn up. The subject matter of the aid should be the acquisition of hardware and software equipment of potential applicants. I am interested, therefore, in how the monitoring committee, which was supposed to address this operation, has worked out and how the European Commission will address this problem. Last but not least, how do you evaluate the fact that by 2020, the Czech Republic may not be covered with 30 megabits per second, as set out in the national strategy of the Czech Republic, even thanks to this process and the former inactivity of your ministry. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister of Industry and Trade Tomáš Hüner has the floor. Minister, your five minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u64	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, answer Question No 1. At the relocation of CZK 7 billion, which was the original proposal, but it is recommended that the monitoring committee relocate CZK 4 billion on condition that we demonstrate the unreality of the exhaustion of CZK 14 billion on the fast Internet. There is now a review of the real possibilities of exhaustion of the allocation with regard to the end of the programming period, as mentioned here, in 2023. This means that we want to really assess how much resources we are able to spend on high-speed Internet until then, given the time of preparation and implementation of new projects, unless we are definitely going through the trial method - error, i.e. we're going to write projects and then we're going to find out that we have a $50 million response to 14 billion, and we're going to want to do a much more sophisticated and, after previous communication with the potential beneficiaries of this grant, we're going to write these projects right over here so that the amount is maximized. [[15.40 hours]] Currently, as a result of the fact that the main players on the market failed to agree and blocked the drawdown by appealing to the European Commission, the ÚOHS is forced to deal with the matter, so of course this complicates the matter. However, with all participants in the process, whether it is the Office for the Protection of Competition or, ultimately, the European Commission, we are discussing this. I believe that, after these difficult negotiations, if I report on this matter or answer this question at some point at the end of the year, it will be far less trivial than it is so far. And to question number two, if the entire territory is to be covered by high-speed internet by 2020, and 30 Mb/s has been remembered here, I would say that we on the high-speed Internet today consider 100 or more Mb to be relevant for the future, and that is why I say this because it is the speed of 30 Mb/s in 5 G networks that can be achieved after the assignment of new frequencies and mobile operators as today. So from this point of view, it is actually real to draw by 2020 and actually somehow implement the high-speed internet at the level of the 30 Mb/s. Of course, the 100 is going to be a little more difficult, but we are currently dealing with operators. And so, as I recalled in question number 1, if we find a reasonable common technical, commercial and economic consensus, we will certainly improve this situation considerably. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u65	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Ambassador, your one minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u66	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Yes, you're right, the 30 Mbps will certainly not be a problem, but the national strategy states that it should be 100 per cent of households, 100 per cent of connections. But then it also states that 50 per cent of connections have a speed of 100 Mb by 2020, and that will be a huge problem. And I think it is necessary that the money that is earmarked for this, and the 14 billion from the European Union, so that they do not move, do not go anywhere else than to come, because now, for example, the Chamber of Commerce, for example. issued an ICT report in which it is claimed that up to 150 billion crowns will have to be allocated for this complete coverage, so every billion that will be diverted in some way or for secondary purposes will be missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u67	Minister, are you interested in an answer? So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u68	Short reaction. I completely agree with what has been said. This is not about diverting funds to somewhere where it would be meaningless, from a thing that is closely related to it, such as digitization, eGovernment, etc. So we are currently in negotiations with municipalities, with regional, actually with regions, and we are trying to make for their needs, such as linking the internet to their networks, hospitals, etc., so it is not a dodge of funds somewhere outside of this entire field. But I agree with you that from the point of view of the high-speed Internet concept, it's a thing that fits into it as a subset, but it's an emergency solution, but I have to say it's meaningful. That's a short one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u69	Thank you, Minister. Next, I call on Mr Vít Rakušan, to interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Networks Jaroslava Němcová, and to prepare Mr Jan Bartošek, who will interpel the Minister Robert Pelikán. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u70	Thank you. Madam Secretary, to begin with, I would like to say that this is not some politically motivated opposition interpelation, but a substantive problem actually arising from the local mayor's practice. I would ask you to explain the practical consequences of the amendment to the Physical Need Assistance Act, which took effect on 6 July 2017. According to this amendment, the recipient of a benefit which receives a benefit for more than six months in the last 12 months will be paid in such a way that at least 35 per cent and not more than 65 per cent of the benefit will be paid by vouchers justifying the purchase of goods at a specified value, without any possibility of deviation. However, the problem arises with pension collectors, old-age, disabled, caregivers and other very vulnerable persons, for whom receiving benefits in the form of vouchers and the way they are paid personally represents insurmountable problems. It is not just a problem of commuting to the competent authority to the benefit payer, the cost of transport, the application of vouchers at the place of residence. Many times, many supermarkets, which may offer more favourable offers, do not accept the vouchers at all. It is clear that the amendment misses its original objective for these people, namely to limit the abuse of benefits in a specific group of people, and it turns out that it is merely a toothless measure with countless negative effects on the most vulnerable of fellow citizens. Dear Minister, my question is how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic plans to address these application problems related to the payment of vouchers in material distress. The system most affects vulnerable people who have never abused benefits in the past, are in a difficult life situation, and the provision of basic food through food stamps is literally humiliating for them. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u71	Thank you and I now call on Minister Jaroslava Němcová. You have five minutes, Madam Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, may I answer. This amendment, which concerned your question, has been effective since 1. 7. last year, however, did not really affect the lives of people and the lives of employees of the employment offices until 1. 12. because they talk about the fact that people who receive benefits in material distress and actually receive one more part of the benefits in material distress, the subsistence allowance, for more than six months, will receive part of this one part of the benefits in material distress in the form of vouchers, amounting to between 35 and 65 percent. The living allowance is intended to cover the basic needs of life, i.e. food, clothes, sanitary supplies. I assume that the impulse for this legislative change was repeated abuse of benefits, when, in fact, in selected locations in particular, these benefits did not serve on the basic needs of life, but were purchased for alcohol or cigarettes. So I guess that's why the novel came out. From the statistics carried out - because of course I started to deal with this right from the first days, we now have the opportunity to draw information after the first month, that is, after December, where the benefits were paid. Now let me get a couple of numbers. Based on the statistics carried out, 1,840 doses were paid in part from 80, 175 doses, out of 80,000. This was a social facility, because some who receive benefits were paid to the housing facility of the 80,000 2,894 doses, which is 3.6 percent of the total, i.e. to social or medical facilities. The allowance for a living is about CZK 92,000, out of 1,480 benefits was paid not to a specific applicant, but to an authorised person, 553 benefits were paid and received by the guardian, 135 benefits by a special recipient and 633 benefits were sent by post through valuable writing. Those receiving the dose know that they can apply, i. e. This applies, in particular, to disabled or old citizens. In total, the benefits in material distress for the month of December, all of them, were 144,000. [[15.50 hours]] Most beneficiaries of the subsistence allowance - the subsistence allowance is on average CZK 3 410 per person for the individual, which corresponds to the minimum amount of living - also receive one of the other non-insurable benefits in addition to this allowance. The allowance for care, mobility allowance, special aid allowance and very often a supplement for housing during which there is an average of CZK 2,800. At the same time, they are old-age and disability pensioners and, in the event of an emergency, they can still ask for extra immediate assistance. This means it is only a very small part, about CZK 1,000, on average CZK 1,100, which is paid in the form of vouchers. The Labour Office has concluded framework contracts for the supply of vouchers from three suppliers, which also provide a network of contract vendors across the Republic. There are 16,000 contract vendors all over the country today, there's an exact map, every employment office has that list. Anyone who comes for a dose gets that list. The aim of the legislative regulation was to prevent abuse, as I mentioned at the outset. The point was this: We have not yet noticed any numerous reservations about this, but in certain cases already after that month it seems that the impact is really on people who do not deserve it, whether I can say the people, and it is very difficult for them to pick up the benefits, or especially for the residential facilities to realize them at all. We have discussed this in the Social Committee and we are preparing it with some Members, and we are actually prepared, and I have given them a proposal for a legislative change that will get into the circle very quickly - I will just say - and it will concern residential facilities and people with limited legal capacity, where it will also be possible to pay this levy, which has been vouchers, in cash form. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u73	Thank you, Minister. Ambassador, are you interested in an additional question? [[He doesn't.]] So before I ask the next one in line, let me read one apology. Between 16 and 22 o'clock on a business trip, Mrs Lenka Kozlová apologizes. And now I call on Mr Jan Bartošek, who will intersect Minister Robert Pelikán, and Mr Jan Bauer will prepare himself, who will intersect the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u74	Thank you. Dear absent Minister Pelikán, on 12 January this year Prime Minister Andrej Babiš made serious accusations in the Chamber of Deputies regarding the independence of Czech justice when he stated that there was a possibility of ordering a criminal prosecution in the Czech Republic. Since Andrej Babiš has been Prime Minister of this country since the end of last year, as Minister of Finance, he has been a major member of the Czech Republic in the last four years and has been a member of the Security Council of the State with access to classified information, I consider this statement to be very serious. Given the fact that you yourself have not expressed yourself as Minister of Justice since March 2015, to this statement by the current Prime Minister in any way over the past two weeks, I must consider the Prime Minister's words spoken as a statement of a really existing phenomenon. Dear Minister, for this reason, I am now interrogating you publicly to confirm or refute Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's claim, namely how many cases during your term of office have shown evidence of an ordered prosecution. Furthermore, what specific people ended up on the basis of such ordered offences in prison. What specific measures have been taken after ordering the prosecution in all these cases. Further, to whom the task has been assigned to change this situation in the Czech Republic Also, why the relevant House Committees and Commissions have not been informed of these practices. Dear Minister, I believe that, like me and the entire public, we understand very well the meaning of the words expressed by the Prime Minister in the Chamber of Deputies two weeks ago. In the event that his words were not based on the truth, but were merely conjecture or speculation, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is grossly disparaging the independence of the judicial authority with all possible consequences. I therefore call on you to answer all my questions. [[Attention on time.]] Otherwise, it is personal political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is not present, so he will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. So now I call on Mr Jan Bauer to give an interview to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaroslava Němcová, and Mr Ondřej Profant, who will have an interview with Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u76	Thank you. Madam Secretary, the problem I wish to draw attention to in my interview was already open here a little while ago. This is the current wording of the Act on aid in material distress, § 43 of this Act, according to which a certain amount of subsistence allowance can be paid by means of vouchers to purchase goods. You see, Madam Secretary, I understand that the aim of this measure, which is only briefly, is to limit the abuse of benefits in material distress. Indisputably, there is an effort to reduce the use of doses such as: it takes the form of buying commodities such as alcohol or cigarettes. On the other hand, I cannot accept the practice and it is unacceptable for me that this measure clearly affects people who have not found themselves in a socially difficult situation. It's a case of people with health disabilities or e.g. parents who take care of a sick or disabled child. I would also like to convey a very strong call for adaptation from both the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic or the Association of Social Services Providers in the Czech Republic. In this context, I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, first of all, whether and how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs monitors the new practice of paying a living allowance. Further, whether and how the employment authorities distinguish between the types of benefits in material distress and take into account their needs when deciding what part of the benefits will be paid to them in vouchers. And further, whether and in what way the Ministry intends to respond to criticism by organisations representing disadvantaged people. And lastly, whether the Ministry is planning legislative changes or at least changes in internal regulations and methodology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Jaroslava Němcová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u78	I am sorry, I will probably repeat myself very much, because the Member's contribution is almost identical to Mr Rakušan's previous question if I should repeat the same in a nutshell. This is a living allowance, only one part of the contribution in material distress, which is newly paid from December if a person receives a living allowance for more than six months, partially in vouchers. 80 175 subsistence allowances per month are paid, of which 1,840 benefits are paid by vouchers. We also dealt with how many benefits were paid to the residence facilities. It was less than 3,000 of the 80,000. I've been communicating with the Social Services Association. We are prepared, ready, received by Members of the Social Committee, Mrs Pastuchová, already a proposal for a legislative regulation, when social and health establishments, as well as persons with reduced legal capacity, will be paid full subsistence benefits in financial form. In the case of persons with disabilities or persons for whom it is very difficult, e.g. to go to the office of work, which is what 700 of those 2,800 people have already used, and that's because they've asked for their paychecks and mailing the vouchers. With regard to the networks and the vendors of the security, we are now preparing a new tender, and there we will insist even more that administrators or those who provide the service and deliver the vouchers have the network as broad as possible, that is, to get into the stores and to negotiate even the stores in smaller municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u79	Well, Madam Secretary, thank you. And I ask - yes, Mr Bauer has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u80	Madam Secretary, of course, thank you for your question. I have asked some legislative questions. I confess that if I had known that some minor legislative regulation was being prepared, I might not have even administered this interpelation. And since I am Vice-Chairman of the Social Committee of the other strongest political party in this Parliament, and I don't know anything about it, I would like to ask you if you could also not send me what you are preparing, so I can also be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u81	Yes, thank you. And the Minister for Supplementary Responses. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u82	I'm sure you do. Thank you for the addition. The previous modification, the amendment, was initiated by Mrs Pastuchová at the time. He is also a member or Vice-President of the Social Committee. We discussed it with her, and she got my first draft text the day before yesterday. We have already consulted one paragraph in this, so if it is, now the question is, in the order really very few days, and next week I think we have a social committee where I will definitely be present, then I will inform you that Mrs Pastuchová has prepared the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u83	Thank you. And next, I call on Mr Ondřej Profant, who will interpel the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, and Mr Jakub Michálek, who will also interpel the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u84	Madam Secretary, last year, the Government Decree 425 entered into force on the list of information published as open data. It became effective at the beginning of this year. The Ministry of Finance, this is contained in several data sets, it fulfilled, for which I thank you. However, the method of publication, especially the ARES registry, is very spartan. He's only following the regulation in the most minimal way he can. There are data that logically belongs to it, even in fact they are in it, but they are not published as open data. This loses the benefit of these open data, virtually. open data are primarily about synergies between individual data. For example, there is no history of company names. Although all business companies are published there, through publicly available websites you can click on the profiles of individual companies and find the given history, but they are not in open data, which I consider to be an administrative error, however it is very unpleasant. I know there are very difficult negotiations with the supplier, but it is also your job to resolve this, after all. So I want to ask you if you're working... or are you thinking about expanding these things that are missing, and if you're working to improve these data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u85	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u86	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, Mr Member. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the opinion on Mr Profant's interpellation with regard to the implementation of Government Regulation No. 425/2016 Coll. In fulfilling the requirements of this Regulation, the Ministry of Finance published data from the ARES, which is actually an administrative register of economic operators, as open data to the extent provided for in this Regulation and Act No. 304/2013 Coll., on public registers. At the same time, this was achieved in the best technical way that the current solution of the ARES system allows. The current system has a database and application part and a large part of the outputs is made up of the application part. Therefore, it is not only possible to export data from the database and it is necessary to extract data through the application part. The Ministry of Finance is aware of this non-compliant architecture of the ARES system and therefore is currently working on a feasibility study that will propose the possibilities of a procedure that will lead both to a more efficient functioning of the ARES for the internal needs of the State and to improving the public's publication of data as open data. As far as the history of company names is concerned, we are currently discussing whether it would be possible to add this history to export from both a technical and a legislative point of view. These historical data go beyond the above-mentioned government regulation and the Public Registers Act, where history is not mentioned, anchored. The Ministry of Finance is aware of the synergies resulting from the data opening, and it was the first of the ministries to launch its open data catalogue at the beginning of 2015 and try to continue to open the data, for which we have also received various awards. Of course, we do not prevent any opening of data for no reason. Thank you. We're not defending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u87	Thank you, too. I would ask the honourable Member if he has additional questions. It does, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u88	Thank you for your answer. I hope that the opening of data at the Ministry of Finance will continue to work. And I just wanted to make a comment. I hope that the feasibility study will not take too long, and follow-up steps, because the ARES system is a merge of about five registers, which is not as simple as one database, but, again, there is nothing complicated that could not be handled, in a few months, to recompose the whole if needed. I think that the funds that are being spent on this are sufficient to de facto be on the table. And I think it can be seen in these lengthy negotiations with the supplier that it really is not very flexible, as the contractual relationship is set today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u89	Madam Secretary, if you're interested, I'd like an answer. [[No, thank you.]] Mr Michálek and Mr Bartošek have another interview at the moment, but according to my information, Mr Gazdík has withdrawn it, so Mr Gazdík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I thank the Minister for finding the time to come to the meeting of our famous Chamber of Deputies. And now I'd like to get to the problem that I wanted to highlight with my interpellation. When we remember the time before the elections, all the political parties opposed excessive bureaucracy. And I have dealt historically with one problematic element of our legislation, namely the duplication of the transmission of financial statements to the financial authorities and, on the one hand, the register courts which establish them and subsequently publish them. I think that's something that could be solved fairly easily. It is the conclusion of the Supreme Audit Office, which recommended in its conclusions that the Financial Office be empowered to send documents directly to the registry court, so a normal entrepreneur would not have to send all those institutions himself, but would have done it for him at once, probably using a computer program. If we look at this filing in public records, such as financial statements, it doesn't work very well here. The percentage of fullness is somewhere around 20 percent, so 80 percent of entrepreneurs ignore the legal obligation, which, of course, makes life even more difficult for, say, their contractual partners. When I was a municipal representative, they often applied to the company's tender, which didn't even have any reports, so then you don't know what you might think about them, if they're serious partners. And, of course, different anti-corruption organizations point to this, which show examples of when such companies were quite dubious. I sent this matter to the Minister of Justice Pelikán a year ago. The minister informed me that there was a group that unfortunately didn't solve anything. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] I wanted to offer support and help to put together a working group that would solve this at the level of the Justice and Finance Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u91	I'm asking the Minister for a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u92	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, Mr Member. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the opinion on Mr Michálek's interpellation with regard to the abolition of duplication when sending the accounts. Indeed, it is true that the issue of the Collection of Bills and Accounts was dealt with by the Ministry of Justice for the last time in 2016. There was a working group from representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Financial Administration. Basically, the following questions were dealt with in 2016. Firstly, the lack of completion of the Collection of Documents in Registry Courts and, secondly, the existence of duplications, possible duplications, when submitting financial statements data to public authorities. Basically, the conclusions of this working group are as follows. Of course, there is a more detailed document on this, and I will briefly sum up the conclusions. Achieving improvements - of course, I openly say that this is not the best way - the fulfilment of the Charter Collection is, of course, possible through the consistent application of existing sanctions by the Ministry of Justice. [[16.10 hours]] But when it comes to the topic of duplication, it is not quite simple, because the duplication is not full, it is only partial. In most cases, the tax administrator is concerned that tax authorities require, in fact, only the data collected, not the entire financial statements, and not all persons on whom the register courts keep the collection of documents are obliged to submit tax returns. This means that not every tax entity has to publish the entire financial statements. This applies from 2016 to small and microaccount units. In addition, the entity is obliged to submit three or more annexes to the tax return. six months after the end of the tax period, while the obligation to publish the accounts and the annual report generally occurs within 12 months of the balance sheet date. The outlined solutions, which concern the elimination of duplication reduction, are neither appropriate nor feasible in this - it was said in the previous period, that was the conclusion of the working group. The introduction of a new obligation to communicate data in the required format and structure could be perceived - because, of course, it would then want to unite, introduce some uniform format, structure. The question is how would the public accept this, because the public dislikes any introduction of new forms. And any IT changes on the financial administration's side would be appropriate in this regard - it came to this, this was the Financial Administration's position - until the introduction of a new IT system that will be related to the My Tax portal and other projects, which are horizons 2019 first, rather 2020 and subsequent years. Of course, this subject is also very closely related to the new Income Tax Act and other accompanying changes that will be related to self-measurement, electronisation, time-limits, so they will require certain legislative adjustments. We're not gonna resign, but they're gonna be real around 2020. It was not quite clear from the interpelation, but we made it clear with the Member in a brief pause whether he was interpelling the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Justice. I got the answer, both. We know about this problem, it exists. The completeness of the documents is, of course, problematic because there is a very short deadline for imposing sanctions, and de facto the Financial Administration, in turn, focuses more on having the necessary annexes for tax returns. There it is essential, there it is enforceable, of course it needs these annexes to properly assess the tax liability. And the criminal courts are probably - I can't speak for the Justice Department, but that's how I felt about the work group's negotiations - they're swamped, and they're basically not exactly prosecuting. But the problem is deeper. That means we have relatively duplicate submissions here, but it is not duplicate because the Financial Administration actually requires a different data structure from the registry court. That doesn't mean there's no problem. I would certainly not resist some cooperation at the level of the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u93	Thank you, too. I will ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. He does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u94	I agree with what the Minister said that the path of sanctions is not effective in this case, because the subjects are hundreds of thousands, so sending paper to a hundred thousand subjects is not a very good way to solve this. So I understand that it would be possible to create a working group in which the opposition might also be involved, and so on, so that we can resolve this problem in some way? Because the reasons you mentioned can be solved by some kind of unification, like the deadlines I think it's more of a marginality, and all you have to do is set legislation so that a citizen of an entrepreneur sends all the statements ideally in one structure to one place. I think that's the principle that citizens are asking us to make their lives easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u95	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u96	Thank you. I'll just respond briefly. Sure, the task force is possible. I am always concerned about the matter and the material solution, but I stress that legislation will have to be adopted. That is without a doubt and without the rest. It will mean that we will create - and this was actually the conclusion of the last working group - we will have to create some unified XML format structure and we will have to explain it to entrepreneurs as best as possible. That would be ideal, because then they would hand it over to one place and it could draw both the trade register and the Financial Administration. That's possible, but it won't be completely... I say openly - legislation, technical solutions and explain it very well, because we will again implement something new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u97	Thank you, too. Another interview was to be brought by Mr Bartošek, who wanted to interpelise in the matter of failing to cope with the effects of snow sludge on road traffic in the region of South Moravia, but he is downloading it and is not present, so I will invite Mr Petr Gazdík, who will interpel in the case of digitization of film works by Minister Ilja Šmíd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I have been approached by a rather large group of filmmakers on the digitalisation of important Czech films. Despite developed methodology DRA, a digitally restored author's work by qualified experts from the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague, the State Fund for Cinematography and the National Film Archive prevents the authors from putting in full use the methods in the titles of digitally restored films, such as Jiří Menzel's films as a living author. A group of filmmakers drew my attention to the report by your predecessor, Minister Daniel Herman, who noted that the digitalisation and restoration of films such as Starci on hops, Adelaide or Adéla have not yet dined, showed serious errors in the resulting digital record, the shift in format, the green skin of actors, etc., and, moreover, the failure to mention on Czech television, which then digitalization must digitize again, which is unnecessarily increasing financial costs. Filmmakers, as the creators of digitized films, are therefore logically opposed - as they say - to the non-metodic vulgar digitization of films, in which the original appearance of the film is not preserved. Minister, will you please ensure that the above-mentioned institutions honor the copyright of the filmmakers and order them to invite the authors of the works or their heirs to be digitized in accordance with the requirements of the Ministerial Commission? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u99	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u100	Mr President, honourable assembly, I would divide the answer into two parts. In the first part, I would like to say that the issue of digital film restoration has several levels. First of all, it must be based on the fact that films produced until 1991 are in the administration of the state and the rights of the producer for films produced until 1964 are exercised by the National Film Archive and, in the case of films produced from 1965 to 1990, by the State Cinematography Fund. The film copies themselves are managed by the National Film Archive, which is a contribution organization of the Ministry of Culture. It should be said that current technologies, and there are more of them, significantly affect the potential for the dissemination and consumption of audiovisual content. Large format high resolution, online dissemination, digital cinemas are available. And these technologies require the transcription of original film belts into digital format, either simply without more demanding modifications to HD format or in a restored form in the highest resolution of 4K. This second method leads to the maximum possible approximation of the original form of the work with the possibilities of distribution through the most advanced technologies, but it is very difficult financially. The price of one digitization is approximately CZK 1 million and it should be noted that the film is actually after scanning all available and relevant originals - sometimes fewer, sometimes more - to be checked and the box after the box is corrected in color and sound. [[16.20 hours]] It is the financial intensity that means that digital restoration is approached by one-off projects. Since 2011, there has been cooperation between the Karlovy Vary Film Festival, the Czech Film Foundation and the National Film Archive and, for example, we have managed to introduce restored films such as Markéta Lazarová and All good natives. It is also necessary to mention cooperation within the Pilsen project - the Capital of Culture 2015 or cooperation with the Karel Zeman Museum and finally one-off projects from last year, such as the Shop on the Corga and Černý Petr. All these projects have met with a positive response. The Ministry of Culture has co-operated financially and is promising other successful projects. And now, actually, to your question. In addition to these projects, it is necessary to mention separately the project financed by the support of the Norwegian Funds, within which the National Film Archive digitally restored 14 films, with total costs of CZK 26.5 million. The result, however, did not meet with a clear positive response, when some of the restored films have reaped international success, such as Ikarie XB 1 in Cannes, but some have been criticized by the national professional public. My predecessor, Minister Herman, therefore set up an expert group that identified the problems of digitalisation and made recommendations that could be used by digital restoration institutions in the future. This project was actually competed and won by one group, they're Hungarian creators who were just doing this digitalization. At the same time as this project, however, a research project was carried out on the very programme of national and cultural identity, which created several other methodologies under the uniform name of digitally restored authoritarian methodology, DRA. The technical sub-methods are generally applicable, but DRA as a whole is difficult to apply under the Public Procurement Act. The results of the work, the research was submitted to the Ministry in mid-2017, i.e. at a time when the original NFA project, which I mentioned, had already been completed. So the problem is that, in fact, the first competition was followed by the Public Procurement Act. And I think that this is a fact where we need to think about whether the Public Procurement Act regime and the setting of criteria apply to everything. If this applies to buildings, but also to cultural projects such as film digitization. We should consider whether, for this type of project, such as the national cultural treasure, conservation projects, but also the digitalisation of cultural heritage, including film restoration, should always be an indisputable criterion of the lowest possible price, which in this case was the case. [[Attention on time.]] The Ministry of Culture has dealt with this in cooperation with the State Cinematography Fund and the procedure is not possible because it would be a circumvention of the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u101	The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u102	I'm sorry, Minister. Of course, I do not know what the regime of the Public Procurement Act is in this case. I know one thing that the digitalization in the form of DRA, you said it yourself, is significantly cheaper than the digitalization. You yourself said that one movie is around a million, and those 14 films, some of them, were worth 26 million crowns, which is just more. So I just wanted to ask if you would actually consider it at the Ministry if you did not consider, in cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies, to change the law and to establish a clear methodology. Because I find it absolutely desperate and stupid for the state to digitize something, especially from other, concessionary, but also from public funds to digitize Czech television. And when it's digitized in HD format only and not 4K, which we'll have in a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u103	Thank you, too. The Minister wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u104	Just a brief answer. By the time I wasn't a minister, I really saw some films that I didn't like either, the digitalization. So I promise I will do everything in my power to change the digitalization system. But it's just that the project is competitive, so I don't know, administratively, whether it can be terminated or... We'll just work on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u105	Thank you. And now we have an interview by Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel the Minister Karla Šlechtová on the decision of the members of the government on any abolic grace granted by the President. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u106	Madam Secretary, today is the last time on the subject of abolacy. Thanks to a constitutional change that took place five years ago, it is not possible for the head of state to decide to grant a so-called abolice pardon, which means the end of the prosecution, without countersigning the Prime Minister or his authorized member of the government. President Zeman can no longer decide on his own that someone's prosecution will be stopped. He always needs the signature of a member of the government. It is practically a statement of responsibility, which the government takes over for stopping a criminal prosecution that has already begun. It is based on the fact that if the answer to the question of whether or not a crime has been committed is not to be learned from the court if it is to be swept away from the table of police and prosecutors' work, the government must agree with the President to stop the prosecution. For such a criminal will stand outside the law, above the law. And that's what we've been talking about lately, and that's what we're talking about in connection with the Chapi hnízdo case. President Zeman and Prime Minister Babiš are close to each other, that is not a secret, and their power pact is a risk of pardoning the very criminally prosecuted Prime Minister and his closest ones who are being prosecuted because of the $50 million scam. In such a case, however, the entire government would have to take responsibility for this act. And as you understand, that's not a small thing. And I therefore ask you, Madam Secretary, how would you vote in such a case if you did not support or support the pardon for Prime Minister Babiš and his loved ones in the case of Chapi's nest? And I'm also interested in the reasons for taking over or not taking responsibility for granting such a pardon. The principle of equality before the law is in play. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u107	Thank you, Madame. Now the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond from several angles. For one thing, I have heard many times here today that you are asking, or Members are asking questions about ministers without trust and resignation, so I will respond as Minister of Government in resignation and Minister without trust of the Chamber of Deputies and I will answer in three levels. I'm not gonna comment on the stork's nest at all, I'm not gonna comment on any pact, I've done that many times. However, I will comment on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Czech Republic. I'm not going to comment here at all, and my colleague, the Minister of Health, was very right to say so, if you please. However, the Constitution of the Czech Republic, you are right, Madam President, allows for what is in Article 63 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) (j). However, what I cannot even agree with and, legally, it is very controversial, and that the entire government is voting on the abolition, or that means that the entire government has to agree on the abolition with the President. This statement is indeed very controversial, because the Constitution, which is the amendment of the Constitution, is that although it is given that the President's decision must be co-signed by the Prime Minister or a member of the Government by him, the whole government is responsible for this decision, whether it is the Prime Minister or any other member of the Government - Article 63, par. 4 Constitution of the Czech Republic. So, personally, I would expect any member of the government or prime minister that it would undoubtedly be appropriate to discuss the matter in the government, even though the Constitution does not foresee the entire government's actions on this matter. It is undoubtedly that if every member of the government is to be responsible for this President's decision, then it is certainly fair to comment on it, and, of course, as a member of the government, I would require and demand this. However, it is also a matter of government how it will deal with this issue within the government's negotiations. This means managing a meeting, organising a government meeting, that is the Prime Minister's responsibility. Now let me say two things. The government of the Czech Republic is not public and the government of the Czech Republic decides in the choir. Those are two key things where I answer your question. And another thing - which is the last time that I have kept, because I have spent a lot of time with the Member in the last parliamentary term on the matter of the Ministry of Regional Development, and I did not want to refuse to respond to this answer. However, each Member under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies - part 16 of the Interpelation Section 110 - each Member has the right to interpel the Government or its members in matters of their competence. I suppose my future interpellation could be in the field of defense, if, of course, I remain Secretary of Defense, or if I'm no longer a member of the government, I won't sit on the interpelations. Did I answer your question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u109	Thank you, too. I would like to ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. He does. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u110	I don't have a question. Anyway, Madam Secretary, thank you for the substantive answer. I am glad that I received the answer, which was unlike the Minister's reply in a more professional spirit and not on the topic of pub or tabloids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u111	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary doesn't want to respond. So let's move on. Mr Jakub Michálek will now intersect Minister Robert Pelikán on the abolition of duplication when sending the financial statements, and then Mrs Věra Kovářová will always intersect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u112	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief right now. I refer to my previous speech, and I ask the Minister to answer the same question as Minister of Finance Schillerová. And I would very much like him to work with her to solve the problem, because that is a question that requires the synergies of both departments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u113	Thank you, too. I will just point out that the Minister is not present, he is excused and therefore sends his reply in writing. And now I'm going to ask the following interpellation, that's the duplicate point 21, so please withdraw that. And we are coming to interview number 22, where Mrs Kovářová will intersect Minister Lubomír Metnar on the matter of public custody and the protection of caregivers with limited legal capacity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u114	Dear Minister, in 2017, the municipalities first received a contribution to the performance of the public custody agenda, which is a positive change. The municipalities become public guardians by decision of the court, which, among other things, restricts the legality of the guardian and determines its scope of rights and obligations. The practice of many mayors shows that despite their best efforts, they fail to ensure maximum protection for guardians who are often abused by different persons, especially in private affairs, such as consumer credit. Follow-up litigation increases the municipality's further agenda caused by the exercise of public custody at the expense of other activities. I would therefore like to ask the following questions and suggestions. Firstly, will the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with other departments, examine the possibilities of increasing the protection of guardians in cases where their legal capacity is severely restricted in order to prevent their abuse? And will your Ministry analyse two proposed measures from a legal point of view and in terms of their effectiveness, namely (a) indicating the key information in the identity card that the municipality has been established by a public guardian, and to what extent does the guardian have limited legal capacity; and (b) introducing a register of public guardians and guardians to which selected entities, such as consumer credit providers, would have access? Those simple measures are not intended to restrict the personal rights of guardians, but rather to strengthen their protection against the unfair conduct of persons and companies that regularly abuse their limited competences and abilities. I believe that in a written reply, you will include specific steps leading to the correction of a non-compliant condition. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u115	Okay, thank you. The Minister is not present, so the reply will be sent in writing. And we will move forward, Mrs Kovářová will intersect Minister Adam Vojtěch on the matter of the disruption of pharmacies, the determination of the values of the point according to the decree for 2018. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u116	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I appeal to you on the matter of long-term underfinancing of drug care, which is not taken into account in any way in the current form of the Order on determining the values of the point, the amount of reimbursement of paid services and regulatory restrictions for 2018. The decree does not reflect the current situation of pharmacies in smaller cities. Several dozens have already been closed because of the decline in income and about 600 others are at risk of closure. The inhabitants of smaller cities can thus face the complete absence of pharmacies. Pharmacy is the only health segment with long-term decline in health insurance income and at the same time no fully offset of the abolished regulatory fees. As a result, the costs associated with the operation of the pharmacy are increasing, but the incomes of the pharmacy are falling. Of course, the situation does not help even the increasing administrative burden associated with EET or eRecipes. Although the decree takes account of these new responsibilities for doctors, it does not take into account the pharmacists. It is unacceptable that there is so-called drug tourism in end-users of pharmaceutical care, i.e. patients. The situation arises on the basis of the system for creating the end price of pharmaceuticals on the distributor and seller side, where larger sellers are significantly favoured thanks to the margin system and turnover bonuses. I therefore ask that your office discuss these particular experiences without delay and come up with a proposal for the municipalities and smaller cities most affected by these problems. A possible solution can be considered to be the unification of surcharges as medicines covered by public insurance, which would guarantee the patient the same price in any pharmacy. Dear Minister, what will be your immediate action on this matter? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u117	Well, thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam, thank you very much for this substantive question. I think this area is really very important. I have been dealing with the issue of the availability of pharmacies and the remuneration of pharmacies since my arrival. I met with the President of the Czech Pharmacy Chamber, Dr. Chudoba, representatives of Grémia pharmacies owners, and I am really aware that the situation for these pharmacies is difficult because the income of pharmacies from public health insurance is linked to the price of medicines, which has been declining as a result of the revision of the State Institute for Drug Control in the long term, and therefore the business premium of pharmacies falls. In terms of prices and reimbursement of medicines, including the remuneration of pharmacies, I really consider it one of my priorities. After all, we have this in the government's programming statement, where we have set out the objective of reviewing this system. From the point of view of pharmacies, this means checking the possibility of withdrawing the pharmacy's reward from the unit price of the drug that is currently falling, and thus reducing the rewards. This year I would like to discuss this matter with the Ministry, not only with health insurance companies but also representatives of pharmacies, which we have already had the opportunity to meet here on this subject. However, it is important that the adjustments in this area are in line with the new concept of price and payment regulation of medicines, so that the effects of these changes are properly analysed, in order to avoid either a massive increase in medicines supplements on the one hand, or a disproportionate increase in health insurance expenditure from public health insurance on the other. However, let me make a general statement on the situation relating to pharmacies in the Czech Republic. Compared to the situation before 1990, the number of pharmacies in the Czech Republic has more than doubled. According to data from the State Institute for Drug Control, it was at 31. 12. 2017 A total of 2 544 pharmacies and 240 separate departments of dispensing medicinal products registered. Compared to the previous year, this number was reduced by only 15 pharmacies, which is about half a percent. So even from some point of view, we can see that closing pharmacies isn't so dramatic, although I don't doubt that certain pharmacies may have died out in the more remote areas. I am aware that the pharmacies network is not evenly in this respect, that the higher number of pharmacies is particularly in localities with higher population concentrations, especially in large cities, shopping centres or shopping centres, hospitals and so on. In smaller cities or in mountain areas, availability is worse, but this concerns only pharmacies. In the past, the government has already established the local and temporal availability of health services and the maximum driving distance, which in the case of a pharmacy is 35 minutes. However, what has not yet been verified is whether these limits are respected in practice, which I think we should do. And whether the availability of pharmacies in sparsely populated areas clashes with the availability of medical care. So, for example, if a patient in a small town has been given a prescription from his doctor, he has the opportunity to pick up prescribed medications for him in the vicinity. That's where the correlation really should be. [[16.40 hours]] According to the payment decree, health insurance companies, as in previous years, pay pharmacies a signaling performance of CZK 13 for issuing a prescription medicinal product. There are limits and regulations associated with this, their validity needs to be revised, as well as the value of this performance itself. It's true that the decree was still made for my predecessor. We are now going to talk about a new decree for the next year, where we want to focus on the area of pharmaceutical care. I would also like to address the problem comprehensively from the point of view of the pharmacies network, on the one hand, and also from the economic situation of pharmacies on the other. I am also prepared to support the negotiations on the new payment decree for 2019 in keeping pharmacies where they are really lacking, for example by diversifying the income component of pharmacies, so that pharmacies in regions with less availability of this service are paid more from the public health insurance system. This means that there are really certain bonifications. This is what we are prepared to discuss. I think that's how it should be set up, that really small pharmacies, not the big ones that are in those big cities, but the small pharmacies that are in those remote areas, should have some kind of bonification within payment. And even now, in the framework of the conciliation procedure on payments for next year, I will propose that this be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u119	Thank you, too. Madam, do you have an additional question? You do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u120	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm so glad that pharmacies and a network of pharmacies are your priority. Perhaps it would be a good idea if you called up some advice group on the availability of pharmaceutical care, which will also be composed of representatives of municipalities who would discuss and recommend the most appropriate legislative changes. Furthermore, I would like to appeal to an equally important solution to problems relating to eRecipes. And here, first of all, I think it would be necessary to respond to the impossibility of dispensing medicine in any system failure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u121	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. So, certainly, as far as the village representatives are concerned, we can also talk to them. We first opened the debate with representatives of the professional public, i.e. with the Czech Pharmacy Chamber, Gremium of Pharmacies etc. So what we want to do right now is set up this new system of remuneration for pharmacies with these subjects. And I certainly do not defend myself in negotiations with municipalities. As far as the electronic recipe is concerned, I think that even from the data we have available, basically all the pharmacies are involved in the system and issue electronic recipes. Of course, if there's a system failure or a power outage or something like that, pharmacies can release the drug if they call a special line within the State Institute for Drug Control. It was set up just a special line for pharmacists, where, for example, if a patient comes in, and this is not just a case of failure of the system, but maybe if he comes up with a recipe that is somehow illegible or is another problem with loading it into the system, he can call this line and verify within the central repository of electronic recipes that the electronic recipe has actually been lawfully issued, and on the basis of this, give the medicine to the patient. So it shouldn't be that the patient doesn't have his medication. This option is therefore solved by the special telephone line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u123	Thank you. And we will move on to the last interpellation that Mrs Věra Kovářová will intersect Minister Lubomír Metnar on the issue of definitive interference. temporarily closed post offices. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u124	Dear Minister, as a Member, I call on you to actively address the crisis caused by the definitive disturbance. temporarily closed branches of the Czech Post. In several dozen municipalities across the Czech Republic there are currently so-called. temporarily closed mail, i.e. post office, where the Czech Post has managed to stop operation in the past for various reasons and under various pretexts. Citizens in these municipalities commute on a provisional basis to these services, e.g. for stored consignments, recommended letters, etc. in the mail of other designated municipalities or cities. Many of these temporarily closed post offices are located in peripheral areas near the state border, etc., from where the commute distance and connections by public transport are very complicated. That is why citizens long-term through their municipalities are demanding the reopening of these post offices, in situations where these branches are preserved and ready for re-operation. They all speak for, for example. situation in the village of Vojtanov in the Ore Mountains. The post office in this village was temporarily closed in 2010 and local residents were currently assuming its reopening. However, without any indication of interest in maintaining this branch a month ago, Czech Post announced its complete closure with a laconical statement that the legal obligations were fulfilled. The closure of branches of the Czech Post complicates the lives of hundreds of people, especially at retirement age, who become victims of the system and increasingly dependent on their loved ones. I therefore ask you, Mr Minister, whether these people in small rural municipalities are citizens of a lower category to you without the right to access the basic services of the State. In what way do you intend to definitively prevent the liquidation of the temporarily closed post office? You don't think so. the temporary closure of these mails for delusion, when citizens wait several years for the reopening of the mail, after which the state enterprise by cutting the pen classifies this mail from temporarily closed to canceled? [[Time warning]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-012-041.u125	Thank you, too. The Minister is not here, so the reply will be sent in writing within 30 days. We have exhausted today's interpelation and I therefore thank all those who have stayed and endured, and this is the end of the point. This also exhausts the show for today. However, we still have one more day on the agenda for tomorrow morning at the current meeting. So I'm interrupting the meeting by 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you.
