ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-001-019.u1	19. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on cooperation in the fight against crime signed on 7 June 2017 in Hanoi /German press 37/ - first reading The motion submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-001-019.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me apologize to the person who was supposed to present it here, which is my colleague, Metnar. He's in Bulgaria right now on the Council of Ministers, where I'm gonna take him over tonight, so I'm gonna take this nice topic for him, if you don't mind. The treaty that we are presenting here, expressing our consent to ratification, arose, among other things, in response to the current increase in drug crime in the Vietnamese community. The area of police cooperation is currently not contractually regulated in mutual relations. The purpose of the contract is to provide the security authorities with the necessary legal framework for effective cooperation in the fight against the most serious forms of crime, to lay down the basic rules for their contacts and the principles for the management of the information transmitted. [[9.10 hours]] The contract shall contain standard provisions on the extent and forms of cooperation in the institutions responsible for its implementation, the requirements of requests for cooperation, the possibility of refusing cooperation, the transmission of liaison officers, the transfer and protection of personal data and classified information and the reimbursement of costs. Last but not least, it gives the Czech party the opportunity to share information provided by the Vietnamese party with other Member States of the European Union or the Schengen area without additional consent. At the explicit request of the Vietnamese Party, the Treaty is negotiated as intergovernmental, but from the point of view of national law it is a Treaty of the Presidential category, which is submitted after signature to both Chambers of Parliament for approval of ratification and will subsequently be submitted for ratification by the President of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-001-019.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Robert králíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-001-019.u4	Good morning, Mr President, Dear Government, honourable Members. The contract presented is a standard regulation of police cooperation with a non-sequential State. Currently, the area of police cooperation with Vietnam is not regulated by any bilateral agreement. This Treaty is in accordance with national law, international law and European Union law. Implementation of the Treaty will not require increased requirements for the state budget. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a contract for discussion to the Foreign Committee. At the same time, the contract was submitted to the Senate, which discusses the relevant proposal as Senate Document No 220. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-001-019.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Rapporteur? It's not. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. So we're going to vote. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. just in case. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 70, registered 119 Members, for 110, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. That's how we ran out of this point. Thank you, and I'm done. Let me read some more apologies. Mr Margita Balaštíková apologizes for today's meeting within 10 hours for reasons of work, Mr Ivo Vondrák apologizes from 14.30 to 23.00 hours for reasons of work, Minister Jiří Milek apologizes for his business trip abroad from the whole day, Mrs Helena Válková apologises today from 9 to 13 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes for reasons of work and finally Mr Jan Čižinský apologises for today's negotiations. I'm opening another point.
