ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-19-ps2017-012-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I welcome you all here, I wish you a good day and we will continue. I am opening another meeting on the 12th session of the Chamber of Deputies and I would like you to, if possible, sit down, sign up with your identification cards, or report to me who will vote with a replacement card, and we would continue with permission. Thank you. I say that for Pávek of work, Margita Balaštíková for Matušovská of work, Martin Baxa for reasons of work, Jiří Běhounek for Špičák of work, Josef Bělica for reasons of employment, Jana Levová for reasons of employment, Milan Brázdil for reasons of work, Jaroslav Bžoch for Martinů of work, Radek Dvořák for reasons of work, Stanislav Juránek for reasons of work, Pražák Ivo until 14.30 for Procházková of work, Jana Hrnčíř for Pastuchová of employment, Tereza Hyťhová for reasons of employment, Milan Chovanec for Vondrák of employment, Hana Aulická for reasons of employment, for Zuzana of employment, Stanislav Radovan for Vích of employment, for Volný of employment, for Schwarzenberg of employment, for Karel of employment, for Věra of employment, for Okleštěk of Adamec of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of Prague for Kobza of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic for Zahradníková of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic for Jírovcová of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for Koten of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for Plzák of the reasons of the Czech Republic. The members of the government apologize Andrej Babiš until 14.30, Klára Dostálová from 15.00 to 19.00 for work reasons, Jiří Milek for work reasons, Robert Plaga until 11 hours for work reasons, Martin Stropnickýý for health reasons, Karla Šlechtová for work reasons, Ilja Šmíd for foreign travel reasons, Mr Mikuláš Peksa and Mr František Kopřiva apologize within 10 hours. Furthermore, Mrs Radka Maxová's apologies have arrived all day for working reasons, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek from the morning meeting until 12 a.m. and from 16.30 p.m. for working reasons, Mr Dominik Feri apologises between 9 and 13 p.m. for working reasons and Mr Marek Výborný at 9.00 and 9.30 for personal reasons. There. We've dealt with all the apologies. Today we would continue to discuss further points according to the approved agenda of the 12th meeting. And please note that by 11 o'clock at the latest it is possible to submit applications for oral interviews, at 11.30 there will be a draw. According to the approved programme is the first point to be followed
