ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u1	9. Proposal by Members of Stanislav Grospič, Vojtěch Filip, Zdeněk Ondráček and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended /house print 65/ - first reading I will ask the Members of Parliament to either leave the Chamber with their discussions or interrupt them so that we can proceed to this point in an acceptable atmosphere. Thank you. [[The O.R.'s quieted down a bit.]] We received the Government's position as House Press 65/1. I now ask that Mr Stanislav Grospič present the proposal for the appellants. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, allow me to briefly mention the draft law which deals with the issue of the so-called. Amendments to the Constitutional Act amending Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended. Constitutional Law No 1/1993 Coll., the Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the Constitution, provides, within the framework of the definition of the legislative power, an exhaustive list of the termination of the mandate of a Member or Senator, in Article 25. However, this list, as the previous parliamentary periods have shown, seems insufficient to prevent the transition of individuals or groups of elected Members to other political parties or to other newly created Members' clubs during the parliamentary term, including those political parties and groups who have not participated in the regular election competition for their place in the Chamber of Deputies. The behaviour of some Members in the past has clearly shown that there is a serious breach not only of citizens' confidence in the political system but also of the functioning of the constitutional system itself. In essence, there is also a distortion of the decision of the sovereign, which is a citizen-volunteer, who has combined the surrender of his vote with a certain defined programme, with which individual political parties and political movements through their candidates have come before the citizens and have sought their election by guarantee of the implementation of the programme. Here it must be pointed out that Members and senators are today elected representatives of the people, not their party or some voters. Therefore, he must carry out his mandate in person in accordance with his promise, that is, for the sake of all the people, in accordance with the law and with his knowledge and conscience. He is therefore a citizen who, on the basis of the legislation, gives his vote at the election to a candidate on the ballot list of the electoral party and thus allows him to gain the mandate of a Member or Senator. The current legal situation does not fully address and defines the effects of maintaining the Member or the Senator after his election. In fact, it does not prevent him from leaving the relevant club and moving to another or even to another political party for which he did not run in elections without affecting his mandate obtained in elections. However, such conduct can, as a result, not only be regarded as a statement of power from the elected candidate to the citizen-vote, but also as a breach of obligations towards the political party or political movement, for which the Member or senator has been elected, which have no and cannot have any possibility of disabling the mandate of such a Member or Senator. In this context, the fact that the candidate himself signs a statement that he is not aware of the obstacles to the option and that he has not agreed to another candidate list and that he agrees with his candidacy will therefore in fact embezzle not only this statement. The legal order does not respond to this situation in any way, for example, by eliminating the Senator's mandate in the course of the meeting described above. This remains the case for the Member, the Senator, whether or not he surrenders the mandate himself in such a case. If he does not do so, there is virtually no possibility of getting rid of such a Member or, where appropriate, a Senator's mandate. It is therefore necessary for the Institute to be included in our legal order. losses of a Member or Senator's mandate which would allow a Member or a Senator's mandate to be removed from the proceedings described above, which cannot be qualified other than as a violation of the law or, where appropriate, a Member's pledge. [[There's a noise level rising in the hall.]] Furthermore, the current legislation does not permit the termination of the mandate of a Member or a Senator in the event of a final conviction of an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for a criminal offence committed intentionally. The proposed proposal also introduces this possibility of the termination of the mandate of the Member, the Senator, assuming that the date on which the decision of the court became final will be considered as a moment of termination of the mandate. This is a completely logical step based on the requirements for a normal civil profile of a member of the legislature, who has an analogy in the Act on elections to municipal councils, Act No. 491/2001 Coll., and in the Act on elections to regional councils, Act No. 130/2000 Coll. Representatives of municipalities and regions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u3	I'm gonna interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for you to maintain greater respect for the points under discussion, for the speakers who are speaking here, but also for colleagues and colleagues who want to listen. We have reached a noise when it is not possible to proceed with proper consideration of this point. Please keep it down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Deputies of municipalities and regions shall cease their mandate after a final conviction for a deliberate offence to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment. The aim of the proposal is to make it impossible for a Member or Senator to do the above-mentioned act, in addition to the distortion of the decision-making of a citizen-voluntary in elections, to change the political force ratio in the chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic against the will of a citizen-voluntary, also to strengthen confidence in the political system and the functioning of parliamentary democracy. The proposed proposal should lead to changes in certain laws which link to the termination of the mandate of a Member or of a Senator. I would also like to point out that I have already submitted this law in the previous parliamentary term, when it entered the second reading and served as a basis for a wider discussion beyond the Constitution and the problems associated with it in the context of constitutional problems discussed in the House of Deputies. I would very much like for the petitioner to do this, too, and this bill can be released for second reading, to become one of the incentives for discussion within, for example, the Permanent Commission on the Constitution, for broader changes that could also be solved by this burning problem, which is marked by almost every parliamentary term, when Members from individual political clubs, political parties or movements are transferred to others, or by creating brand new political groups that are not constituted in elections and do not participate in the regular election competition in the elections to both chambers of Parliament. We are also aware of the government's position which did not support this bill. However, we think that the reasoning given in these opinions, with reference to the relevant articles of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, is a bit of an effect because they go beyond the interpretation of these provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u5	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. The rapporteur for first reading is Mr Chvojka. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues. Basically, with regard to this proposal to amend the Constitution, the representative of the petitioners said everything he had to say about the matter. The truth is that I am already this proposal here, although not as rapporteur, but as a member of the constitutional law committee, he was in charge as guarantor of our party during the previous term of office, so this plan has already been discussed once, unsuccessfully. I think that - and now I'm going to step out of the role of rapporteur, but I'm starting to normally say my opinion about this press - I think it would be good if this were the case. I think that the proposal for an amendment to the Constitution in this case is not reasonable. I understand why the idea came about, but I must say, in full compliance with the government's position, which I am definitely not a fan, that the proposal is simply contrary to our constitutional order, for two reasons, which are set out in the Government's position. The first reason is that we really have, according to the Constitution, we as Members and Senators, so-called. a free mandate, that is to say, we are to carry out this mandate personally, in accordance with our promise, with our conscience and knowledge, of course, and we are not bound by any orders. Which is somewhat different than for example. in first-class practice, when the mandate was tied up. You must know that Members signed in advance at the time, for example. The letters of resignation, and when they disliked the leadership of their party, the party just sent the resignation for them. We have a completely different practice here, a democratic practice, i.e. we have a free mandate and we really should not be treated as employees of the party for which we have been running. Even if I understand someone's upset. Furthermore, the problem is, of course, that the proposal states, which also rightly states the Government's position that, in essence, the concreteisation of Article 25 should be in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies or of the Senate, which, of course, is also contrary to constitutional order. If something like this should arise as a loss of mandate, then the concreteization should be when, where and how it should be mentioned directly in the Constitution itself. And, of course, the proposal is not only about losing his mandate if the Member changes the political party or club during the parliamentary term, but also should lose his mandate on the day on which he was finally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for a crime committed intentionally. There I confess that this adjustment is closer to me from the two things that are being adjusted. There I think it's definitely a topic for discussion. I agree that this should be a criminal offence committed intentionally, certainly not careless, where, of course, someone can accidentally commit a car accident or kill someone and then lose his mandate, that would not make sense. However, I do not agree with the proposal as a whole with this amendment to the Constitution. I confess that even though I was the Minister of Legislation, I was organizing a so-called. round tables of experts, especially experts, not politicians, but people who either prepared the Constitution 26 years ago or are now engaged in the Constitution, and I confess that none of those round tables, when one was dedicated to the power of executive, other power of judicial, third power legislative and fourth to those general things, nor one of these experts suggested that the Constitution should be changed in those parameters, as proposed by the petitioners. So I am in favour of this proposal to amend the Constitution being rejected with the fact that it is a proposal for a change, but it is not in accordance with constitutional order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I open the general debate, I will introduce you to the fact that, from today's meeting, Mrs Adamová, from 15.15 to 16.15 apologizes for reasons of work. I am now opening a general debate. Four Members are enrolled in the general debate. Mr. Feri will be the first to speak. Mr. Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the Constitution is accompanied by questions relating to legal certainty. Legal certainty of elected legislators. This proposal is not new; it was dealt with, for example, about five years ago. And rather than inventing a new example, I have now reached out to the article by the constitutional judge, Professor Šimíček of 2013, who is dealing with one very specific matter concerning the clause of final conviction for deliberate crime. Mr. Tonda will be sentenced to prison. Pepa's replacement from the same political party will take the place of Mr Tonda's convict. Of course, the criminal court that decides to appeal will know who this alternate is, and if he reads the paper, he will also know whether, for example, he will. This new Member is sympathetic to a government with the closest majority or not. What if the convicted Tonda was one of the defectors and only because of his voice did the government hold on to power? Then there will be a situation where the criminal court will in fact decide not only the guilt and punishment of Tonda, but also the continuation of the government in office. It may not be necessary to remind readers that in this case, it will not only be important for the criminal courts to decide, but also when to do so. In fact, if the Court of Appeal does not decide immediately, but with an annual delay, this may in fact mean a rescue for the Government until its term of office expires. This is a very specific situation, this much more serious will follow now. But let us continue to think. Former MP Tonda is in prison. Pepa became a legislator. Tonda with a final conviction is not understood and will file a summons or constitutional complaint, i.e. a procedural means against a final decision. These funds will be decided by the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, and it is quite possible that they will comply. What's that gonna mean? Tonda will return to the bench - because the proposed proposal does not expect the resignation of the mandate to take place irreversibly, as is the case with the President in the case of treason - and pepa in the former occupation. If the reader is still orienting in our fictional story, I will complicate it a little bit. The Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court will cancel a final judgment, even for some procedural errors - some evidence has been left out, no action has been ordered, etc. - that the criminal court will correct, and it will decide the same as before. For Tonda and Pepa, this means that after a few weeks or months of freedom, Tonda will return to the penitentiary, and Pepa will return to the bench. I will not presume that the ping-pong can repeat itself again, and I do not want to speculate what kind of pressure all marked courts will be subjected to in this type of decision not only in terms of material but also time. This means that this quite serious problem concerning legal certainty and the exercise of the mandate is not addressed by the petitioner in any way. Therefore, I would like to ask whether he is counting on this in any way in future adjustments, or whether this completely absurd scenario, when you are actually losing your mandate, then you are taking it again, you are dependent on the decision-making of the court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, and, in fact, you are putting the uncertainty of the electorate, and it may have far-reaching consequences in terms of the government's trust and other key political decisions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u9	Thank you. Another enrollment in the general debate is Mr. Výborný. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to comment on the press. I consider the correction of the loss of the mandate due to the withdrawal, the transition between the members' clubs, as defined in this sense by the proposal of Members of the KSČM, to be bad and contradictory mainly with the principle of personal performance of the mandate, which is paradoxically referred to in the reasoning of the proposal. [[16.00 hours]] I quote the passage that reads: "It must then be stressed that Members and Senators are elected by the day representatives of the people, not their party or some voters, so they must carry out their mandate in person, in accordance with their promise, in the interests of all the people, in accordance with the laws and their conscience and consciousness. " End of quote from the petitioner's explanatory statement. And that is in direct conflict with what the proposed amendment proposes. In line with the Government's position on a similar amendment from the KSČM workshop from 2014, then the House's press number 188, I would like to summarize that, first, according to Art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 23a to supplement this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with Article 23a of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 3 The Constitution shall be formulated in such a way that its mandate must be exercised in the interests of all the people and in accordance with the best knowledge and conscience of the Member or Senator. The proposed adjustment would significantly undermine this principle in its consequences. Two. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 26 Members and senators shall carry out their mandate in accordance with their promise and shall not be bound by any orders. Once again, there's a contradiction. And three. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, The amendment of the essential requirements of the This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Whereas: 3 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, according to which no one must be harmed by the rights for the exercise of its fundamental rights and freedoms, i.e. including his political thinking. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 15 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms then guarantees freedom of thought and conscience and, last but not least, in Article 15 (3) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. 22 The Charter states that the legal rights of all political rights and freedoms and their interpretation must enable and protect the free competition of political parties in a democratic society. The proposed legislation thus effectively lies in the penalty for changing political thinking and is with this constitutional principle, as defined by, among other things. the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in direct conflict. In addition to these factual complaints, the proposal can also be argued that it is de facto partial and partial, when, together with the draft amendment to the Constitution, proposals for amendments to the various rules of procedure are not presented, when, in my view, the creation of a new constitutional institute cannot be satisfied with the reasoning that it states that the Institute of Loss of Mission - I quote: 'then it will be specified in the Rules of Procedure of the two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic'. So much for the first part. As regards the second part of the proposal, i.e. the modification of the termination of the mandate of a Member or of a senator in the event of his final conviction of an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for a criminal offence committed intentionally, the proposal cannot be denied some rationality, but even here our position is rather negative, for the sake of the protection of both chambers of Parliament and parliamentaryism. However, if it is the will to adopt this regulation, and I would like to say here that it cannot be noted that social demand and public debate on this subject are here, the rapporteur also spoke about it, so I believe that it is more appropriate to adjust the conditions for the election of the Member and the senator in the sense that the optional one is not the one who has been convicted of the unconditional sentence of imprisonment for intentional criminal offences and has not yet carried out this sentence, and the loss of option would mean both an obstacle to the election and the reason for the termination of the already existing mandate under Article 6 (1) (a) of the Rules of Procedure. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. (d) Constitution of the Czech That is why KDU-ČSL Members will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u11	I thank the honourable Member for the speech. Have a good afternoon. And next, I have Mr Ferjenčík's general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u12	Thank you for the floor. Two notes. I agree that the defection is a serious problem, and I understand voters who are justifiably indignant, for example, in cases such as the one in Prague, when the representative for the TOP 09 in exchange for the supervisory board at the city company went to the coalition and actually to the club ČSSD. This, of course, is a scandalous situation. People justifiably hate it, and it bothers them even when things like this happen in the House. On the other hand, the exact same problem is when the party embezzles its program and the individual who leaves is one of the few who honors the original program. So here it's declared the thesis that it's supposed to protect what the voter wanted, but the process is two-way. This means that there may also be situations where a Member, in full compliance with his conscience and in accordance with the electoral programme, will get into conflict with his party, and that he should be punished for this, I do not think it is appropriate at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Here's a point of fact. Mr. Janulík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I'll go to my pastor's margo. He introduced a situation where the individual gets in position, so the whole party deviates from it. I would rather see that, Mr colleague, through Mr President, as an unmistakable sign of psychiatric illness, because if an individual claims that everyone else is crazy, he is usually crazy himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And here is another point of fact - Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u16	So if the party chairman before the election says who they're not going to coalition with, and then they're going to the coalition, then logically, he doesn't have to agree to it, and he doesn't have to be crazy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And until the general debate, I have Mr Marek Benda. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said, so I will try to be brief. Apart from the fact that I did not notice whether there was a motion to reject the bill in question, if that was not the case, I do so. I suggest we reject this and not pursue it further. Maybe the idea should be brought to the Constitutional Commission, but it seems pointless to worry about this constitutional change, which doesn't stand a chance to go through anyway. I'd only have two thesises. Both of these parts are wrong. Even the loss of a mandate that will be left to the ordinary Rules of Procedure is fatally wrong, in my view, regardless of what we think about defection or non-transference. I think that such a situation should not lead to a loss of mandate, that it is simply the issue of those political parties that have nanominated such people there, those people who have let themselves be nanominated, those people who have behaved in some way. I guess no one's ever supposed to vote for them again. But in order to derive from this loss of mandate, for example, that I broke up with the party that nominated me, and especially in a situation where we still have preferential votes, and many of us are coming here from unchosen positions to correct for themselves, that seems completely absurd to me. At the same time, however, only the idea that I will leave it to the ordinary law, which, by the ordinary majority in this House, could determine under which circumstances the mandate is lost, and when I look at my colleague here, I can lay down completely absurd conditions. I'll get shaved, lose my mandate. And it would be a common law. That seems difficult to think. Likewise, the second part concerning the final conviction for a deliberate offence. I think it's at least questionable if it's supposed to sound like this. There have been many discussions in this House about the circumstances under which it must be a deliberate crime, whether it should be a prison sentence. But if the world parliaments have it modified in some way, it is sometimes part of the sentence statement, such as the impossibility of obtaining a public position or continuing to stand up for it, that is not possible in the Czech Republic. [[16.10 hours]] In most cases, when that is the case, it is dealt with in such a way that it is decided in some way by the qualified majority, the chamber. That if I have a conviction whether intentional or unintentional, whether for a suspended or unconditional sentence of imprisonment, then maybe a three-fifth majority of the chamber can say yes, that person, for example, because she's sentenced to three years, and she'll never look here again. Or that the act was so immoral that he would get rid of it. But it's often a qualified majority just to prevent a government coalition from settling accounts from the opposition, or vice versa, when the opposition has more than a government coalition, which we see can and will probably happen all the time in this parliamentary term, but I think that simply this provision, which says so strictly only in the event of a conviction for a deliberate offense to an unconditional prison sentence, will cause more complications than benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u19	Thank you. And that was the last speaker entered into the general debate. I would also like to read one apology about the absence of the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán by the end of the day for urgent reasons of employment. So I have not yet finished the general debate, so I will give you the opportunity to make a point of fact. Professor Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I had the need, my dear colleagues, to express my position on this important proposal of a constitutional nature precisely because I think that many of us see that one reason as rational and well understandable. I mean, of course, the reason that someone is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for committing a deliberate crime. So I would like to say, in essence, for our members of the ANO movement, that in this respect we would mostly agree. Anyway... so maybe I would not be as strict as my previous speaker here, by your means, Mr President, Mr Benda, has pointed out the different legislation and the need for a qualified majority. But the first reason, the defection, would change the constitutional system a little bit, or the constitutional system would change significantly, as we have it set up now, and that is why we will vote against it. So the other reason would be acceptable to us, the first reason not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u21	Well, thank you. And I have no one else registered, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and the rapporteur if they are interested in final words. You do. I shall therefore ask Mr Stanislav Grospič to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the arguments that have been made here, and I want to say that they have also spoken this way during the last parliamentary term, when we have finally reached a consensus that we will, after all, allow this law to be read again and become a basis for a wider debate over the resolution of problems that are really burning and cannot be overlooked. That is, on the one hand, the defection, which is completely contrary to the free mandate of the Member, as set out by our Constitution, because we must also perceive this issue in the context of electoral laws and the system of the formation of the two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic, that is, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. From this point of view, I believe that this is the reasoning in the Government's opinion, where reference is made to Art. Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 23a to supplement this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with Article 23a of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 26 Constitutions of the Czech Republic and Art. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ 4 The Charter of Human Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is not relevant because it is not the unconstitutional nature of this proposal. Of course, if this proposal went through second reading, we do not resist discussions and adjustments so that we can get them into consensus that would suit all political stakeholders who feel this problem is a serious problem that has been tried by the Chamber of Deputies in each parliamentary term until now. As regards the loss of the mandate from the point of view of final conviction, here I would like to refer to the fact that both the municipal law and the regional law know this problem. They can deal with it, and therefore there is no reason for us to ignore this and to include it in legal order, which would apply to the exercise of the mandate of a Member or of a senator, as the case may be. The proposal is generally simple, because according to Art. 87 The Constitution by the Constitutional Court according to the amended text letter, as proposed by the petitioner, letter. (f) decide in doubt on the loss of the mandate, on the loss of eligibility and on the incompatibility of the duties of a Member or of a Senator, in accordance with Art. 25 where these letters would be completed, where the characters would be completed. (g), i.e. loss of mandate, where appropriate, point (b). (h) on the day on which he was finally sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for a criminal offence committed intentionally. I would like to say, for a group of petitioners, that I think this bill is worth discussing, and again I would like to ask you to release at least for second reading, so that we can discuss these problems on the ground as a constitutionally legal committee, but especially a permanent commission on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-11-ps2017-012-02-005-009.u23	Thank you for the final word. I'll read an apology. Mr Lukáš Kolářík apologizes between 1645 and 18.00 because of negotiations. So thank you for the final word. We would now proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. I have a proposal to make here. It is Mr Benda's motion to dismiss. I will zagongovat and call all the Members to the O.R. because there has been some delay. I have an application for check-out. I'm signing you off. Please log in with the voting cards again. [[He's waiting a while.]] So, we're still growing the number of envoys and convoys... I think it's starting to stop. Mr Benda has proposed a motion for rejection. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, raise your hand and press the button. Whoever opposes rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Voting number 37, registered by 151 Members, for 125, against 8. The motion was accepted. The motion was therefore rejected. This concludes the discussion of this proposal. We will now proceed to discuss the next proposal and it is
