ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-001-088.u1	88. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments signed in Riga on 25 October 1994 and on the termination of its validity, which was negotiated in the form of an exchange of notes /house printing 233/ - first reading I would ask Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to take her place at the rapporteur's table, and the rapporteur for the first reading of Daniel Pawlas, to take his seat at the rapporteur's table. Once the noise level has settled, I will ask the Minister of Finance, who, under the authority of the government, justifies the government proposal for this agreement. Please, Madam Secretary, just a moment before the debate is over. If you have debates other than the government's proposal for an investment protection agreement with Latvia, it's in the lobby. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-001-088.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments signed in Riga on 25 October 1994 and on the termination of the Agreement in the form of an exchange of notes is submitted in accordance with Government Order No 853 of 9 July 2008 and No 1529 of 1 December 2008. With these resolutions, the Government of the Czech Republic approved the method and procedure for the termination of certain bilateral investment agreements concluded by the Czech Republic with EU Member States. The list of termination agreements is set out in the Annex to resolution 853, which I was referring to, the Government resolution, and the investment agreement with Latvia is set out in point 10 of this Annex. The resolution was adopted in view of the fact that, following the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, agreements on the protection and promotion of investments concluded between EU Member States became incompatible with EU law, which was also confirmed by the recent decision of the Court of Justice in Case C-284/14 Achmea. In accordance with the Government's approved procedure, the Czech Republic submitted in two waves a proposal to terminate bilateral investment agreements concluded between the Member States of the European Union by agreement. The first wave of ending notes was distributed in the first half of 2009, the second in the first half of 2016. The Latvian party responded positively to the other of these notes and agreed to terminate the existing investment agreement on 28 December 2017, including the exclusion of the application of the so-called withdrawal period. It follows from the agreement of the Contracting Parties that investments existing on the date of expiry of the existing Czech-Latvia Investment Agreement will no longer be subject to protection under this Investment Agreement for a further period of 10 years. The notes thus exchanged together form an agreement on the amendment and termination, which is now submitted to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to express its consent to ratification. The Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the month following receipt of a later note confirming compliance with the requirements of national law necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement. The Ministry of Finance has been informed that all national requirements necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement have already been met on the Latvian side. In view of this, it is recommended that the ratification process be initiated as soon as possible in order to exclude the possibility of possible initiation of arbitration proceedings against the Czech Republic under an investment agreement still in force. The termination agreement is in line with the constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, the obligations assumed under other applicable treaties and the generally recognised principles of international law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-001-088.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance for the opening statement. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I would like to say that my colleague Matušovská has a replacement card number 10. There have been further apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Mašek from 10 to 12 this time and from 14.30 pm to Mr Řehounek. Mr Bojko apologizes from 10:45 a.m. to 13:00 for business reasons. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Daniel Pawlas to present the news report. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-001-088.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the House Press 233, the amendment of the agreement between the Czech Republic and Latvia on support and mutual protection of investment. I'm more or less going to repeat what the secretary said. The reason for submitting this press is that the European Commission has recommended that the Member States of the European Union consider the further validity of the agreements on the protection and promotion of investments concluded between Member States. The content of bilateral investment agreements falls partly within the competence of the European Union, whose legislation takes precedence over the adjustment under investment protection agreements concluded between Member States. The unclear legal environment in the area of investment may cause an unclear situation in the interpretation and application of bilateral investment agreements. The above points out the need for ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments signed in Riga on 25 October 1994 and the termination of the agreement, which was negotiated in the form of an exchange of notes. The termination agreement is in line with the constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, the obligations assumed under other applicable treaties and the generally recognised principles of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-001-088.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking if there's anyone from the scene. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Committee of Foreign Affairs. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will decide by voting number 178, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 178, 117, for 106, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm asking if there's a motion for a commandment to another committee. It's not like that. I can therefore say that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So I can end point 88. The chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek is reporting with priority right among points. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-001-088.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me, I will say this now in very good faith. For several months, I have been determined to pass on one experience from the past, which I was too reluctant to mention on the Organizing Committee. Contracts that are drawn up in particular according to OECD standards and which are, let's say, really standardised and which, of course, we all have carefully studied, so the previous governments, when under the pressure that contracts started to grow, so the reporting reports, when they fit in one minute, did not protest and it blew away. So if it were, I'm convinced that even in this case, the House wouldn't object, and it's just a passing experience at the moment when we're under pressure. It is, of course, on the petitioner and on the rapporteur for each document, how he will deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-11-01-ps2017-020-07-001-088.u7	I thank President Kalousek for his comments. We'll continue with point 89 and that's
