ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u1	73. Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Radka Maxová, Jan Bartošek, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Olga Richterová, Alena Gajdůšková, Marek Výborný, Marian Jurečka, Stanislav Juránek, Jiří Mihola, Ondřej Benešík, Vít Rakušan and Hana Aulická Jírovcová for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on granting benefits to persons with disabilities and amending related laws, as amended, and Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended /house print 267/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to us as the House Press 267/1. prosit have Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, present the proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u2	Good morning, Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Allow me to introduce you to the MP of Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the benefits of people with disabilities, which I submit with other colleagues and colleagues, and thank you for its inclusion on today's agenda. This amendment follows up on last year's successful adoption by the Member of the amendment of the same law, which I prepared with the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, as is the case with the press today. Last year, the adopted amendment reviewed the contribution to mobility from CZK 400 to CZK 550 per month, in particular in connection with the sharp rise in fuel prices in the last ten years. It also shortened the period for the purchase of a motor vehicle from ten to seven years, eliminating the assessment of the applicant's overall property and social situation. The amendment also reduced the price limit of the aid to which the grant requires confirmation of the applicant's income and of the persons considered together, and some other partial changes were part of the amendment. While discussing last year's amendment, we have already announced that there is another serious problem, and this is the fact that the law lacks some groups of people affected by diseases that seriously restrict the mobility of the person, but this is not a problem of the carrier or musculoskeletal system. For the sake of clarity, the law currently only affects people with severe visual impairment, severe hearing impairment, combined hearing and vision defects, people with severe carrier and musculoskeletal impairment and people with deep or severe mental retardation. Only for the mobility allowance can some persons with other diagnoses reach it if they are granted a ZTP or ZTP/P card. The Law on Benefits to Persons with Disabilities grants two types of allowance. The first is the mobility allowance already mentioned, which can be regarded as a classic financial benefit. The second type of contribution is called. a contribution to a special or rather a compensatory aid. This is no longer a classic financial benefit, but a contribution from the State to a specific compensatory aid which aims to mitigate the social consequences of the disability of the person and serves to promote its social inclusion. [[Short silence.]] I apologize a little bit for today's health disability. This is different from health aids covered by public health insurance, which aims to improve the health condition of the person or to help compensate for the health disability, or to prevent further deterioration of the health condition. I want to remind you that the person requesting those so-called. The compensatory aid is required to pay 10% of the price of this compensatory aid. What we are going to talk about today in relation to the proposed amendment is the second type of contribution, i.e. the contribution to compensatory aids, where the State provides a disability contribution to a specific aid which will improve its quality of life in his condition. The problem that we want to address is the fact that they are not yet covered by this law by health disability, who do not have a heavily affected carrier or motion apparatus, but their mobility is significantly impaired by their internal state. Specifically, these are people with severe heart disease, severe pulmonary disease, or significant problems in the blood vessels of the lower extremities. All these diseases at a difficult stage or at the most difficult stages significantly limit the mobility of a person, even worse in some cases than in the case of severe musculoskeletal or support system involvement. Each of us must know a person from around us who, due to the severe degree of heart or pulmonary system disability, cannot handle more than a few steps, because they simply do not breathe more. It is similar in persons with severe problems in the blood vessels of the lower extremities, although the cause of their impaired mobility is from a medical point of view different. Here it must be said that these groups of persons can also reach the first type of contribution, i.e. mobility allowance, because they are mostly holders of a ZTP or ZTP/P licence. Unfortunately, these people, without the help of some compensatory aids, simply do not get out of their home, so I do not want to be a cynic, but it can be said that they are useless to contribute to mobility. This is why we consider the co-president of the inclusion of these three patient groups in the legislation on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities to be very important. Only in this way can these disabilities reach the aids that can help them get out of their homes, but in many cases they can even move around their apartments. The criteria for determining the degree of disability to be classified under the law have been consulted with the relevant professional medical companies. Specifically, with a cardiological company, with a company of cardiovascular surgery and with a Czech pneumological and physiological society. The proposed amendment also includes a proposal for the amendment of Implementing Decree No. 388/2011 Sb., which includes a list of compensatory aids for newly classified diagnoses. These are raid rails, vertical lifting platform or oblique lifting platform, grid ramp, staircase seat, electric scooter as a much cheaper alternative to the motor vehicle allowance, possibly additional motor vehicle adjustment, especially when facilitating boarding, loading of trolleys, etc. It is certainly possible to discuss a limited number of other tools that would be considered according to the recommendations of professional companies, but I leave this for discussion in the committees. On the contrary, this group of persons does not include a contribution to the acquisition of a motor vehicle. [[11.10 hours]] There will certainly be another group of people to discuss, and these are children or adults with a severe form of autistic spectrum disturbance. These persons also need certain aids that are not covered by public health insurance. A major problem for these people and their families is their transport by means of public transport or a private vehicle. Many of these people need or require other compensatory aids for safe transport of their own and surrounding persons. I will mention the second change that our amendment brings, and that is an increase in the maximum limit of the contribution to two expensive groups of aids, which are a vertical lifting platform or a slippery lifting platform. It should be noted here that these are highly expensive aids, where, with the compulsory 10% participation of the applicant, this aid is not available for many handicapped people, because the real price of these aids is between CZK 550 and CZK 600 000, i.e. the applicant will pay 10 per cent of the price, plus the amount that is above the legal limit of the contribution. For these reasons, some applicants simply cannot afford the necessary aid unless one of the foundations helps them. Such a disabled person becomes tied up in his home environment with all health and social impacts. It should be said that the number of applicants for these aids is limited. The total number of applicants for lifting platforms was 377, of which vertical, i.e. the most expensive platforms, were granted only 50 applicants in 2016. So it's not some dizzying number. Ladies and gentlemen, the current version of the Act on granting benefits to disabled persons ignores certain groups of disabled people, where social and social exclusion is the same due to their state of health, sometimes even greater than those already covered by the law. These groups of persons are discriminated against in this respect. It is therefore up to us whether we can also help these people improve their quality of life and at least partially integrate back into society. It is up to us whether we leave some groups of residents in a situation where their only perspective is the view from the window of their own apartment, or whether we will help them at least to a limited extent to integrate into life outside their home. The government has taken a neutral position on our proposal, and it shows from its point of view that the problem that the amendment solves is perceived by the government and considered worthy of a solution. Some comments on the amendment are considered by the petitioners to be worthy of further discussion and, where appropriate, of resolution and must also be discussed with representatives of the professional public in the framework of committee discussions. In particular, this concerns the need to specify both health and other conditions for entitlement to compensation aid for newly proposed diagnosis, which we propose to include under the law. However, I consider this a problem to be solvable and I appreciate the procedure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which, in the meantime, has called a round table at first reading with the participation of the representatives of the petitioners, expert sections of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and professional medical companies. Representatives of the Labour Office and medical assessment services were also present. Here, on the basis of the Government's comments, we have also established a common consultation procedure with professional companies, medical assessment services and expert sections of the MPSV in order to further define objective criteria for individual newly classified diagnoses and narrow the range of potential applicants for some of them. The aim is to prepare for committees or for second reading an amendment specifying the points at issue. However, this will not be a major intervention in the concept of this amendment, only to clarify it so that the criteria for the inclusion of a particular applicant are as objective as possible and facilitate the work of the medical assessment service. Dear colleagues, I believe that we are able to remedy some of the partial shortcomings of this draft during the legislative process, and I firmly believe in our cooperation across the Chamber of Deputies. For the petitioner, in a detailed debate, I will propose an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days, i.e. 80 days overall, so that there is sufficient time to prepare partial amendments which should not undermine the fundamental objective of this amendment. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to refer this proposal to the Committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u3	I thank Mr Kaňkovský as representatives of the appellants. The rapporteur for the first reading was Mrs Vrecionová, but she is excused for health reasons. We will have to set up a new rapporteur. There is a proposal that Mr Jan Bauer be the rapporteur for first reading. However, this is something that we must agree to by voting for the Chamber of Deputies. I have summoned Members who are in the foyer. We will now vote on the fact that we will appoint Mr Jan Bauer as rapporteur for the first reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 82, enlisted 132 Members, for 120, against no one. I ask Mr Bauer to take up the role of rapporteur, and I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as a substitute for Mrs Veronika Vrecionová, to present a draft report on the amendment to the Act on granting benefits to disabled persons. I would like to say first of all that this is a parliamentary proposal. It is a group of Members led by Vít Kaňkovský, Maxová Radka, Jan Bartošek and others, which is the first important information. The subject matter of the regulation is the extension of the disability circuit, which despite its gravity has not yet been taken into account in the law. This is specifically a severe restriction of mobility caused by the involvement of the vessels of the lower extremities, and also a severe restriction of mobility due to circulatory insufficiency in heart disease and objectively proven severe pulmonary function impairment. To those suffering from these severe disabilities, our social system has not yet granted entitlement to a contribution to special aids, which are very necessary for them and without which they will not be able to do so. It is also true that the second area of the proposed adjustment is the increase in remuneration for some of the more expensive special aids. The proposed design aims at special equipment such as vertical lifting platforms or oblique lifting platforms, and is also very necessary in order to increase the availability of these devices. As part of the intelligence report, I would like to inform you that the projected impact on the state budget is estimated at approximately CZK 73 million. I would also like to inform you that at its meeting on 10 October 2018, the Government discussed this parliamentary proposal and took a neutral position on it. That's what I think is probably all in my intelligence report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mrs Gajdůškovášková is enrolled in the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable House, first of all, I would like to apologise to Minister Maláčová, who would certainly have been there to discuss this point if she had not been on a business trip yesterday and today. As the speaker said, Mr Kaňkovský, Madam Secretary, is very in favour of this bill and of helping people with disabilities, as the proposal was presented by Mr Kaňkovský and the rapporteur. [[11.20 hours]] I will just add one more perspective to what has already been said here. I would like to stress that, of course, the compensatory aids also concern children. And for children that they are moving, that they will get, as the translator, Mr Kaňkovský, said, behind the windows of his apartment, means not only that it is more pleasant, but for children, for young people it also means a strong impulse to personal development, i.e. better conditions for them to be included in life. For this reason, it may be even more important for those children and young people, as we say here. One more point, perhaps, is that if we release this bill, if it is adopted, and if people achieve support through compensatory aids, it can also mean a great help and a great shift in their lives, in the quality of their lives. Doctors, experts, say that if we pay more attention and create better conditions for rehabilitation precisely so that people with disabilities can move more to help them, so that up to a third of us are able to get back to a full life, including perhaps a working process, to work. Which is important for self-realization. This, in turn, has consequences in relation to the state of health and, of course, the mental state. Another third of us are able to help really improve the quality of their lives. Unfortunately, the third is so ill that it will make their lives easier, but it won't have as much positive consequences as I talked about it in the first two groups. I therefore, my fellow Members, ask you to support this bill, to approve it at first reading. We are ready, and now I am speaking again for the Minister, certainly debating possible amendments, about improving this proposal. But we will be very happy to have this bill approved when it is well discussed to really help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u7	Thank you. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová is also reporting for the debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to admit that I am one of the Members who signed this proposal, because I believe that this is one of the essential aids to people who are affected this way, and those compensatory aids are really vital to them. However, I would like to point out that even this amendment is not a solution to the whole complex problem in these people. And I really think that - and I quite also appeal to the government and, above all, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and also to the Minister of Health - that it is really necessary to deal with this issue comprehensively and to address this system so that it really has a head and a heel, and we, don't be mad at me, did not have to submit these parliamentary amendments when across the political spectrum... And so that people with disabilities would have protection from legislation and the state in particular, so that their lives would become a little pleasant. When they have to deal with all the problems that seem very easy to us every day, they fight for us with banalities every day. I am also glad that the government has given a neutral position. I think it also speaks for itself, and it points out more or less that the government is aware of the situation in this area as well. That is why I would really like us to move forward with this amendment, and I believe that this will not be a problem even in the next committee or in the next reading. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u9	Thank you. Mr Válek also joined the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would very much like to support this amendment, and I think that what is neglected for 20 years, and this is a social-health border, is something that we really should be dealing with right now. The socio-health border is a very serious issue, because social aspects are reflected in the health condition and, on the contrary, patients' health is very often reflected in their social conditions. We should really deal with the issue of socio-health boundaries with dignity, quality and complexity. This proposal is one of the parts of this solution, although, of course, a new comprehensive law, which should be very quickly, as the Member, through Mr President, said, is something that should really be a priority for this government. [[Ready]] And I'm prepared to do my utmost to help in the health committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u11	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský will speak with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u12	Good morning again. I will just briefly respond to all previous speakers and thank you for supporting this bill. And just maybe what Mrs Aulická said here through Mr President. Thank you so much for the reminder that we really have a whole range of reserves towards the disabled. And maybe I would mention one that isn't very much talked about, but which I meet both as an orthopedic doctor and as a person who meets a lot of those handicapped people in civilian life. We are increasingly struggling with the growing numbers of people who are so-called lying down. This means that they are people who are already dependent on the permanent care of a loved one, and it is very good if it can be a close person, but we very much lack the possibilities of home rehabilitation care. We already have a big problem for people who normally go to rehab care, they can get to it. But as far as the home rehabilitation care that those patients in the hospital need is concerned, it's not something we're sadly getting. And it's not that, of course, any of those permanent patients will, unfortunately, remain permanent, but we have a whole range of patients here that we could improve their health in a way that is well-guided by rehabilitation care. So this is also one of the topics that I would like very much for us to address at that level of health-social boundaries. Because this really is a problem that is growing for us, and if we don't solve it, it will continue to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u13	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Mr Plzák is reporting with a point of fact. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, esteemed members of the government, I respond to my previous speaker. She's the home rehab center, that's the thing that also hangs on our health insurance companies. Because, as far as I know, health insurance companies have been very low on making other contracts for a while. Today, the insurance companies may be more favorable. Of course, this is also linked to the lack of rehabilitation workers. Well, I don't know how we as a parliament can help this. And by the time I got to the microphone, I'd ask the translator. We all see the direction and speed of technological development. And we had the opportunity to see biomechanical compensatory aids on our way abroad, which, for example, allow paraplegics to walk on their lower limbs and backs, keeping them in a upright position with such a balancing system. I understand it's an incredible thing for the disabled. I'm happy for them. But I can imagine how expensive these tools will be. And I want to ask you in terms of how development is constantly going forward, how far our state will be able to pay for all these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u15	Thank you. First of all, it is registered with the factual remark of Mr Válek. After that, Mr. Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u16	I must respond and, through Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague Plzák very much for opening up a debate on supplementary insurance and on how vital it is to start a health insurance reform. I firmly believe that he will encourage the Minister with me to start working on this very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u17	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský, factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u18	I would still respond, through Mr President, to my esteemed colleague Plzák. Of course, we will not stop technological development. I firmly believe that he will continue. But here you really need to distinguish those two groups of aids. We have medical resources here, medical aids that are covered by public health insurance, and that's where the group of aids you've been talking about falls, that is, these are aids that compensate for health disability from a medical point of view. And then we have these so-called special compensatory aids that are within the scope of the law that we are discussing today. We pay for these from the social part and there, in my opinion, have not been any daunting news lately. Yes, we have more modern lifting platforms today, but I'm sure it can't be ruled out that something new will turn up here too, but if we look at the structure in the last ten years, it hasn't changed much. What I'm sorry about the most expensive ones, like the vertical platforms, is that we couldn't push the manufacturer to lower the price. I understand that when they have a patent, they hold a price, but the price hasn't gone down in the last few years. Therefore, it is also unavailable for a number of people, because the surcharge is high for them. They have the 10% plus still pays the difference between the maximum amount of the contribution. If we're talking about medical devices, I agree with you there, but we have that with biological treatment and with all other modalities. This is where we have to talk about the structure and the public health insurance system as well as any additional insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u19	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Before I close it, Mr Proposition, I have noted in your introductory words your intention to propose an extension, and this must be heard now in the general debate, because we do not have another in the first reading. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u20	As I announced in my opening speech, I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days, i.e. 80 days overall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u21	Yes, thank you. Once again, I'm asking if there's any interest in the performance. It is not, so I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Is there any other proposal for a guarantee committee? No, then we can proceed to the vote. We therefore vote on the commandment of the Committee on Social Policy as a committee on guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 83, 141 Members registered, for 132, against no one. The proposal was ordered by the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Is that a proposition from a diaper? Yes, Mr Válek will speak with a proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u22	Thank you. I hope Plzák and I agree. This should also be discussed in the Health Committee. Not as a guarantee, of course, but we should comment on that. After all, this is something that will be covered by health insurance. I suggest we discuss the health committee as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-12-06-ps2017-024-03-002-073.u23	Yes, I understood this proposal. Is there any other proposal for another committee to address the discussion of this law? No. So we will vote on ordering this proposal to be discussed to the Health Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 84, registered by 141 Members, for 132, against 1. We have ordered the motion to discuss the health committee. In the general debate, there was a proposal to extend the deadline by 20 days. The proposal was made by the representatives of the appellants, Mr Kaňkovský. We will therefore vote on an extension of the deadline for discussion of 20 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 85, registered by 142 Members, for 135, against 1. That means we've agreed to extend the deadline. I'm ending reading this bill first. From today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Ivo Vondrák apologizes for working reasons from 14.30 to 19.00. President Ivan Bartoš apologizes for today's meeting between 14:30 and 18:00 on account of the hearing. Initiating item discussion
