ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-24-ps2017-006-05-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, it is 9 o'clock and I am opening another meeting on the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I welcome you all here and I ask you to settle down in your seats, sign up with your I.D. cards, or tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card so we can record it in the log. I agree that the following Members asked for an apology of their non-Participants: Radek Vondráček from 10.30 to 14 hours for work reasons, Dana Balcarová for health reasons, Jan Birke from 9 to 11 hours for work reasons, Lenka Dražilová for health reasons, Jaroslav Holík for family reasons, Adam Kalous for work reasons, Miroslav Kalousek from 9 to 12 hours for health reasons, Jiří Kobza for work reasons, František Kopřiva for foreign travel reasons, Jaroslav Kytýr for foreign travel reasons, Helena Langšádlová for foreign travel Julius, Jan Volnýý for no reason, Ilona Mauritzová from 9 to 13 hours without reason, Radka Maxová without giving reason, Miroslava Němcová for reasons of foreign travel, for reasons of work, Tomio Okamura from 9 to 10.30 hours for work reasons, Pavel Růžička for health reasons, Jan Skopeček for foreign travel, Antonín Staněn Staněk without giving reason of Pavel of Špičák of reasons of health reasons of reasons of the Jan of the reasons of the Lubomír of the Volný of the reasons of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic, for free travel. Of the members of the government requested an apology from Andrej Babiš from 9 to 14 hours for working reasons, Lubomír Metnar without giving reason for the whole price, Jaroslava Němcová without giving reason, Robert Pelikán without giving reason, Martin Stropnickýý from the morning meeting, Ilja Šmíd for working reasons, Adam Vojtěch from 9 to 12.30 hours for working reasons. Mr Petr Pávek's apology came in addition between 9 and 12 o'clock because of the negotiations, Mr Martin Kolovratník from 14.30 to the end of the meeting day for working reasons, Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková from the whole meeting day, Mrs Lenka Řezáčová between 9 and 12 o'clock because of the working session. We've dealt with apologies. We will begin today's meeting with a fixed clause 4. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for a change. I can't see, so we will continue with the fixed item 4, House print 14, defence of the Czech Republic, first reading. Then we would eventually continue with other points from the block of the first reading of the laws. At 12:30, we have a fixed ballot point of 27, 28, 29, 30 and 35. I would remind you that at 14.30 we would discuss firmly classified points 5, that is the House press 27, medicines, first reading, paragraph 43, that is the extradition to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, and paragraph 39, that is the prosecution of Mr Růžička. I'm asking if anybody has a proposal for an update on the proposed show. Like I said, I don't see anybody, so we're gonna keep talking. Opening point
