ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended, and other related laws /house print 132/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Jan Hamáček, Vice-President of the Government and Interior Minister, will state the bill. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u2	Thank you. [[Restlessness and noise in the courtroom.]] Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give very briefly the second reading of this law, which was discussed by the Chamber of Deputies -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u3	I will interrupt you, Minister, but I think there's a lot of noise here because Members are moving. So let's wait a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u4	Thank you. This law was discussed by the Chamber of Deputies during the time of the previous government. That means, at first reading, the material was presented by my predecessor, then Minister of the Interior, Metnar. I do not pretend that at the time that the material was presented to the Chamber of Deputies, I had some reservations about its content. However, political negotiations have taken place which result in some amendments. Perhaps the main amendment is the proposal presented by my colleague Valachová. And I want to say that, in the wording of the amendments proposed, I am prepared to identify with the material. Therefore, there is probably no need for me to comment on it further and, if necessary, I am prepared to answer questions or comment on the amendments tabled at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u5	Thank you, too. Before we go any further, I have some tickets here. Mr Špičák cancels his apology from 5:30 pm to the end of the working day, as he is already present. Mrs Maxová apologizes to us between 16.30 and 18.30 hours for family reasons, Mr Fridrich apologises to us today from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Lipavský apologises to us from 17 to 19 on a business trip. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The public administration and regional development committee also discussed this press on an initiative. The resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development was delivered as House press number 132/1, the Constitutional Committee submitted a record that was delivered as House press number 132/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government. The amendment to the Civil Service Act was subject to first reading criticism. There have been proposals for rejection and return. Subsequently, the bill was released for discussion by committees. The Guarantee Committee has been designated by the Constitutional Committee, and another committee designated for discussion has been designated by the Public Administration Committee. As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, it approved several amendments at its meeting, but did not adopt an overall resolution on the recommendation or recommendation of the amendment to the Civil Service Act to the plenary for approval. I will present these amendments in more detail in a moment. The Public Administration Committee also discussed this bill. I assume it will be brought closer to the chairman of this committee. However, as far as the Public Administration Committee is concerned, this recommended the draft law for approval. Now, then, to the constitutionally-legal committee. The Constitutional Committee approved and recommended three amendments to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. The first amendment was Mrs Ožanová's amendment. This amendment, to put it simply, makes it possible to use the personnel capacity of existing state authorities better than before. It is therefore, in my view, in accordance with the principles of state service, which, among other things, is the principle of the professionalisation of the public service. This amendment will allow, of course, for final approval, for example, the Ministry of Finance to make better use of the personnel capacity of the Financial Administration or for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to make better use of the personnel capacity of the Labour Office or the Czech Social Security Administration. It increases throughput between these institutions and makes it possible to make better use of personnel capacity and to extend the entry of these personnel capacities into competitions with central government bodies, in this case ministries. Although I use these examples, it is clear that this applies, of course, to all subordinate authorities of individual types of ministries. What is important to say - because, without a doubt, the opposition is vigilant, so I would certainly discuss this in plenary - is that this amendment also makes it possible to mitigate the qualifications in some cases where, in the future, we could also use those workers who, under the current wording of the Civil Service Act, do not have the formal education required, but dozens of years of state service work and are, of course, regularly evaluated and achieve good results. The motivation of this amendment is not only the professionalisation of the state service and higher penetration between individual institutions, but it is not possible to hide that it is also a step towards better use of force in a situation where the state and state authorities are also faced with a lack of skilled and high-quality workers. The quality of the public service will then, of course, be ensured in the future by regular service evaluation as well as by the education of civil servants. Another amendment which the Constitutional Committee has discussed and recommended, that is, a majority has been obtained for it, is Mr Bartošek's amendment. This amendment responds to the criticism that was made during the first reading at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies in the direction of the then formulated Government Bill on Civil Service and extends the period for which it would be possible to re-evaluate civil servants for a longer period than the current government proposal. If you recall, this is the fact that has been criticised by the parties to trade unions of civil servants and parties to transparency organisations. This amendment was therefore also discussed, approved and recommended for approval by the Constitutional Committee. The third amendment, which was discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, was Mr Chvojka's proposal to propose certain amendments to the Foreign Service Act, which are based on the existing practice of foreign state service, take into account its specifics and are desirable in terms of further provision of foreign state service as well as, of course, increasing the quality of foreign state service. It is therefore, from this point of view, an amendment which rather takes into account the specifics of the foreign civil service against the general service and, at the same time, an amendment concerning the practical matters of the service. And you probably remember that this is not the first change that has passed in recent years towards foreign civil service. So this amendment was also recommended by the Constitutional Legal Committee. It must also be said that the amendments I described had the support of the Ministry of the Interior from the point of view of the recommendations. These were agreed recommendations in the case of Mrs Ožanová and Mr Chvojka. In the case of Mr Bartošek, this was a neutral position of the parties of the Ministry of the Interior. I will not describe any further amendments adopted by the Constitutional Committee. It has not been recommended and approved. As I have already mentioned, the Constitutional Committee, although it has discussed these three amendments, has recommended that the majority of the Constitutional Approval Committee be there, so it has not adopted an overall resolution towards plenary. Therefore, these three amendments were read in the electronic system of the Chamber of Deputies from the procedural discretion of the Members. However, I consider it important to say and to emphasise once again that the constitutional committee mostly supported these amendments. At this point, it's for me, as rapporteur, all of it. At the same time, Mr President, I would like to report my speech on the amendments to the Civil Service Act to that amendment, which the Minister of the Interior has issued and whose adoption is conditional on the approval and recommendation of the Ministry of the Interior with the amendment of the Civil Service Act as such, and I allow myself to sign up with priority rights for the Social Democratic Club as Vice-President of the Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u7	Thank you. Yes, the show was announced. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Martin Kupka, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendment. But I'm afraid Mr Kupka is not here, so we will have to change the rapporteur. I beg Prime Minister Bartoš, if he has anybody in mind or if he presents it himself. [[Here comes MP Bartoš.]] I've got the resolution here, if you will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u8	I will therefore cover for Mr Kupka, who is the rapporteur. Just for a little while. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development discussed this House press and recommended it for approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u9	Thank you. Now, please, with the priority right of Mrs Valachová for the CSSD club. And I'm opening up a debate to make it clear. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u10	So one more time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you the amendment to the amendment to the Civil Service Act to which we, I point out, have reached after long negotiations and consultations, and therefore we are in this amendment and in the amendment to the Civil Service Act in the light of the government proposal in agreement with the Social Democratic Club and also the club of the ANO movement. [[18.10 hours]] We have tried to find such adjustments to the Civil Service Act, which will comply and respond to the objections that have been raised here at first reading at the House plenary, the objections that we have heard from the Civil Service Union, the objections that we have heard from some non-governmental organisations that have long been concerned with the transparency of the civil service, and, finally, let us say, neutral opinion of the European Commission so far on the possible amendment of the Civil Service Act, because the final opinion of the Commission has not yet been communicated by the Commission, noting that the Civil Service Act, in addition to the fact that it is a backbone law for functional, professionally independent civil service, and a law that, from the Constitution's point of view, let's say, from the political line of administration of the State, it is also necessary to remind us that this was a precondition for drawing on European funds, as it was discussed in the last term of office. So, knowing this responsibility, we have been looking for changes that would accommodate the debate. So the first thing I want to present is a change that should concern the solution to the objection that the current amendment from the government workshop raised doubts that the fact that it might be abused if it does not have to be used in the first round does not have to respect the result of the first round of the selection procedure and, at the same time, it can go to the second round, which is newly open, outside the civil service, that this could theoretically lead to abuse in the context of changes in political representation and thus to special-purpose changes in the civil service. That is why the amendment responds to this objection by returning to the current wording of the Civil Service Act, which is valid and effective, in the future, in the case of those presented, such as the Director of the Department, and those presented, such as the Head of Department. that, in the case of the Director of the Department and the Head of the Department, the result of the selection procedure must always be respected and, therefore, if no one is chosen, the first round with a closed number of those that can be admitted to this round must be repeated, i.e. respect the career system of the public service. This, then, should be preserved in the future, as we are now used to. The career system is respected, and so is the possible objection of politicisation in the event of the exchange of political representation. In the case of the Deputy Minister, i.e. Deputy Chief of Staff, i.e. the highest figure in the various sections of the state service, we leave the wording of this government proposal as submitted by the government, with the fact that we are simultaneously changing and extending the competence of the so-called. political representatives representing the Minister. Please don't let your colleagues or colleagues get spooked prematurely. The reason is simple. Thus, the political deputy, who represents the minister, would be able to be directly entrusted by law to the minister of areas, agendas, and, in these agendas, to task so-called vice-president, or, if you will, to the heads of the sections who are already in the civil service. However, they would continue to have no professional competence. It would remain in the hands of the State Secretary and the Minister. We have agreed to this amendment because we believe that it is desirable for every minister of every government to have these options regardless of political jersey, and professionally and personally I believe that this will contribute to reducing the actual pressure on possible exchanges in that particular line of state service. I therefore consider this change to be desirable and respectful of what every Civil Service Act has to respect. There is a political line of state administration and a state service line of state administration, none of which is worse or better, both of which must be functional and also a political line of state administration must have the possibility to be carried out functionally. From this point of view, we therefore believe that both the CSSD club and the ANO colleagues have done well to do this. Another change is the extension of the time to so-called repeated professional evaluation. The repeated service evaluation was criticised as part of the first reading in the sense that the original length, which should pass between the original and repeated 40 days of service, can be perceived purposefully and can theoretically be used again in practice towards the purposeful, undesirable exchange of the civil servant. From this point of view, we have extended this deadline, more comfortably against Mr Bartošek's amendment, as discussed and approved by the Constitutional Committee, and we have also distinguished whether the employee, who is to be evaluated repeatedly, was therefore evaluated in the last service evaluation, say positively, or, on the contrary, he has earned a completely negative assessment. So, in the future, these days of service are spreading from 40 to 60 days of service and 90 days of service. Here, too, we believe that we have done well to dispel the concerns raised at first reading. It is also owed to add, and this was also published in the media space, that the European Commission was also interested in this adjustment in the consultations. Another change that we have agreed on, which is part of the amendment that I will, of course, sign up to in the context of a detailed debate, is a change which has also been criticised by the parties to the Trade Union of Civil Servants who rejected the original government proposal in that part that the State Secretary would not be obliged to communicate with the trade union organisation of the civil servants of the department in question and could delegate this obligation to some lower component. Here too, we have therefore complied with the objections in this sense, and we have modified the proposal to amend the Civil Service Act so that the Secretary of State will also be obliged, in the case of matters of service, to communicate with the trade union organisation of the civil service of the department. This is therefore the presentation of the amendment, which I will then report to in a detailed debate. And from the point of view of the coalition agreement, I will continue to report that we have also been looking for a way to respond to concerns about state secretaries and their position, including that of not interfering with their competence in an undesirable way or not being put under any undue pressure in the event of changes in political representation. I am calling on the amendment, which will be recorded in a detailed debate by my colleague, Klára Dostálová, which, in my view, responds systematically to the situation that is currently in the case of state secretaries. [[18.20 hours]] Now you know that state secretaries are subject to disciplinary proceedings without, say, specialties against other civil servants. It is the state secretaries who must ensure full respect for the Civil Service Act within the Ministry, not only to themselves, but to all the civil servants of the Ministry. The only person who has special treatment, let's say special protection, is the head of state service, who can therefore be affected by the factory only through serious breach of service obligations and only after the entire government agrees collectively on its appeal. And this appeal is also reviewed subsequently by the court, independently by the judicial authority. For this reason, in the case of state secretaries, we have proposed a change that would lend this type of protection to all state secretaries of all departments. I would point out that, of course, this amendment contains provisions in terms of its effectiveness and only applies, if approved, to logically future possible offences or a particularly serious breach of the civil servants' duties. Of course, all proceedings that are currently underway from the point of view of any state secretary's possible disciplinary sanctions, in accordance with law and legislative technology, will run according to the existing legislation. I'm calling this on purpose so that we don't get suspicious of any special-purpose changes. So many amendments that have been drawn up to reflect on reservations, especially at first reading, but, after all, in public space. For myself and for the Social Democratic Club, I am calling on the first package of amendments, namely in the Chambers of Document 1379, in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u11	Thank you, too. Now please, with priority rights, Minister Dostálová. Then it should come to President Bartoš's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've only really been very brief. I would just like to inform all the honourable Members here that all the amendments tabled by my colleague Valachová have been passed through the consent of the national coordination body, which is the only one overseeing the preliminary conditions where the service law is this preliminary condition. As far as negotiations with the European Commission are concerned, they are taking place in a very parallel manner, but, of course, the European Commission will issue a favourable opinion or any opinion only to the final version of the law, that is to say, what the Chamber of Deputies will approve. So far, of course, all these amendments and proposals, which Katka, Mrs Valachová, has presented, have been discussed with the European Commission on an ongoing basis. Indeed, we still respect that principle so that the service law pursues objectives such as stabilisation, professionalisation, transparency and depoliticisation. So, of course, I, too, in the context of a detailed debate, have announced that I will apply to House document 1381. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u13	Thank you, too. And now I ask President Bartoš for a general debate. Mr. Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u14	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ministers, ministers. I wanted to speak in the general debate. We drew attention to this law, we even followed it during the last parliamentary term. I have intervened several times in the case of the Civil Service Act both in writing by Minister Hamáček and Prime Minister Babiš. In those direct responses, I've mostly heard some examples of the Minister's inability to get rid of a deputy. I am glad that two compromise proposals have been made by my previous speakers here and to sign up for this proposal. However, I must say that these proposals were only loaded into the system today. The result of some kind of government debate between the ministries and the government was unknown to us as members of the pirát. We relied on criticism of the European Commission and even criticism of the union of civil servants. In both voices, it was said that this law goes contrary to its determination against the principle of depoliticisation of the state administration. I am glad that the four biggest reservations have been dealt with in those points that have been addressed here. The thing I didn't hear here, I don't know if it was affected, was the extension of scale 1 to 4 to 1 to 5, when the possibility of failure in the evaluation increases considerably. We have heard such a rather strange argument in the defense that the evaluation system is set, that if it gets 100 per cent in one category and in the category as manager, zero, it will actually meet on three. I think the evaluation should be set to make sure that the person is competent to perform. And I'm not sure this is addressed. It was one of the reservations to extend the scale. I am glad that the proposal, which is in line with Mr Bartošek's amendment, has also been made, is the deadline for further testing. It is essential that if someone is alerted or in his assessment goes wrong because something doesn't work in his gesture, then he really has to have the right time to fix this thing. I don't want to go over the individual points we've been looking at in the original government proposal. I respect that there has therefore been an agreement, which has only been recorded today in the detailed study system. I, therefore, in a detailed debate despite all this, because I am expressing my views on the original bill, will read the motion for rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u15	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr Benda. Mrs Kovářová will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u16	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a rather non-standard situation. I will say one request at the beginning, on behalf of Minister Dostálová, whether she would be willing to tell us at least briefly in the general debate what her amendment relates to, because Kateřina Valachová, as rapporteur, may have mentioned something here, but I will admit that even with a more self-sustaining listening, I have not fully understood what she is thinking or what is supposed to be exactly the end. At the same time, I think we are in a completely desperate position. Some of the longer-serving Members have remembered Topolánkův's backpack and 40 pages brought to the second reading of the Chamber of Deputies' meetings, disputes that were there and which then ended up in the Constitutional Court. And I feel a little bit alike today. I even understand that we have a government that brings something forward, it's a government without trust, in the meantime another government is created, there's another minister. Although I consider it rather irregular for the rapporteur to say that the Government Minister will give his consent only if her proposals are recommended. This seemed to me a little bit beyond the edge of Czech constitutionality, but it is only a small comment on the edge. But then there will be some coalition negotiations, and we as the House are introduced to it by individual amendments - in this case, the Members, to be gender correct. You can't do this. Don't be mad at me, but you can't do this. There were no proposals on the Constitutional Committee, and only some parts were presented, which I will eventually also get to, but mainly opposition proposals, and Mrs Ožanová, who edited one part. And now all of a sudden we're all built here before it, we don't know at all, those designs really were put into the system today. [[18.30 hours]] I do not know how much time you have during the House to study the legislative quality of the proposals. But I am really trying to monitor the House's negotiations relatively, and I am unable to assess the legislative quality of the proposals that have emerged in the system. And after second reading, these proposals will only be directed to the constitutionally-legal committee, which is supposed to say yes, no. The guarantee committee. At this point, I think it would be fair to bring the bill back to committee for a renegotiation. Acknowledge that the changes brought about by the government and the government coalitions, which I actually agree that they are reasonable, that they correct the original proposal in many cases, but that it is polite for others to discuss as well, not only the government Members, especially when the government coalition currently has a minority in the Chamber of Deputies, and only then can we return to discussing this proposal in the second reading on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I ask the President to register this proposal of mine, which, of course, can be voted on, it is not a procedural proposal, it is a proposal to act at the end of the general debate, but I think that after the general debate, we should vote on bringing the bill back to the committees for a renegotiation. That's the first procedural point I have. A second procedural point which, I firmly hope, will be clarified after the negotiations of the Constitutional Legal Committee and which is rather related to certain disputes here with legislation. It seems very unusual to me that the committees, if they approve any amendments, and even we have really separated this strictly on the constitutional committee, that it was first a vote on the recommendation of the bill as a whole, and then on the recommendation of all the amendments that we have approved. Because there was a clear majority that said: these amendments are correct. If it should happen to be approved, it is in their wording, but there is still no majority that would recommend that the draft law as a whole be approved in this text. And now, the rapporteur here tells us: It would be better for procedural caution for each of the Members who submitted their proposals to the Constitutional Legal Committee to add them to the House system and to apply to them at the third reading. I just consider it incorrect to the committees. I think that if the committee votes by its majority and recommends something to the Chamber of Deputies, then these proposals are to be discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, we must not pretend that the committee has, in some way, voted in vain because it has not adopted a final recommendation resolution at the end. That can happen in a number of cases. The committee says: improve it if possible, but we do not recommend it. And I think that we will have a number of such proposals, especially from among the opposition, here in the coming months, when it is said: we recommend amendments, but we may not recommend the final resolution. So let me hear it for you in the third reading, but I would like to clarify on the ground, and I hope that we will present you with some final opinion and a final proposal for the Chamber of Deputies on how to deal with this situation in the future. And now I'd like to return for a moment to the proposal itself, after all, when I went over the procedural questions. The bill itself, virtually. the changes that have been recommended so far. I've already said this on the floor of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I'm asking, in particular, the chairman of the Education Committee and all the school representatives - the absurdity of where we lead that state! We demand more and more functions. Some formal education. And the civil service is a typical example of that. So to say after a year, two at a time, we have a lot of employees who don't make it, so let's make an exception. Or we'll make an exception for ten years when it's supposed to be finished. The result is one thing: either we keep extending the exceptions, then we shouldn't have put it there at all, or of course we are necessarily leading, and we all complain about the fact that education is getting worse and worse, we lead everyone to have some kind of college or, in some cases, high school, at least a high school graduation, which they are supposed to finish later on at work. And I think we can all imagine what the level of these universities is, virtually. And the high schools that are supposed to be graduating. That seems like a completely misguided procedure to me. And I think we should always look at it again and say, "Do we really need this kind of education here? Or is it enough for us that these people are capable of doing this? Let's cut the education! But we don't put the whole system in that everyone has to have a formal diploma because we know what they're doing at the end. Well, that's a request I should have. And, of course, it has something to do with the whole bill proposal. Instead of making some more substantial revision of the state service. And I said that here at first reading, and I would be very much in favour of a more fundamental revision of the state service. Let's just say what it's supposed to look like, let's say it's really just the expert apparatus of the ministries that decides in administrative proceedings. Let's say that the Deputys, of course, do not fall into this, that they control individual sections. Of course, I'd sign all this, I'd say, that's right, let's depoliticize the civil service. And there's a new leadership, there's been an election, there's a minister, there's a deputy coming with him, and there's a task to do with where the resort is headed. They just don't execute this particular administration and they don't make decisions in that administration. I'd like that. But what were we going to do? Here again, some strange cat dog sews up that the monochrome government of Andrej Babiš said, "Well, let's try to break everything." We try to break everything, we try to say that first round is enough, no winner has to be selected from the first round, and in the second round we already have a completely open driving which our friends from our well-known and friendly companies can enter. And I will not name any of the big companies in the Czech Republic on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies to do a commercial for it. And it's called. compromise, at least as I listened to the rapporteur, who is now proposed to say, well, with those union directors and section heads, this is not possible, we'll go back to the old model, that he has to run two rounds, or if he isn't chosen, so that he repeats the first round, but we won't do it with the deputies, and that's where we can go. Do we consider this a conceptual and meaningful solution? Did we somehow improve the civil service? Or maybe we just cheated it a little bit, because we say it works that way, it works after the non-political deputy, but at the same time we admit that the non-political deputy, that it doesn't really work for them, because these are the high functions that we would like to replace when the new government comes. I agree with the new government that they're supposed to replace deputy ministers. I just think he's supposed to come, say it, say these are the people we want to trade, we're behind it, Dear House, approve. And it's not that it's done in such an intriguing way that we're going to pretend that the civil service is, but at the same time, we admit that it's possible to break into these high positions in this way. So these are probably the most fundamental reservations I have and which, I think, should lead to this - let's return the draft law to the committee for a renegotiation. Let's go, if we want to make these changes, let's make them head and heel so they don't circumvent the existing system and accept new and new exceptions. We always get angry about how complicated our laws are, how many rules we have, how many exceptions we have in them. And this is one of the typical standards where we're going this way. All the rules and a hundred exceptions again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u17	Have a good evening. So, honourable Member, I am registering your motion to return the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation, which we will be voting on after the general debate. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Kateřina Valachová. However, you, as rapporteur, have the right to speak at any time, of course. Please, your two minutes. And Mr. Válek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u18	Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Marek Benda is a fine rhetoricalist, so I will try to calm down again, after all, those he has managed to scare. There's nothing special going on. Second reading serves to make all Members, i.e. even Kateřina Valachová and Klára Dostálová have read any amendments. With regard to the situation in which we are, this is only exceptional because the proposal was submitted by a government other than that which is now defending it at further readings in the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to point out that in my speeches, I have distinguished my role as rapporteur and as Vice-President of the Social Democracy Club, who raised a number of objections to the original version at first reading. As for the effort that really was coalic, and in that I think it's fair and fair to admit it, and I think there's nothing to be ashamed of, because that's how we should work, so here we described it as a reaction to the first reading. There's nothing major beyond, there's nothing surprising, it's not a copy of the text from A to Z. So much just to calm down those who may have been terrified. As for this legislative technical dispute in quotation marks between the Constitutional Committee and the House's legislation, I just want to inform my colleagues that, as rapporteur, I have only been instructed, on the basis of the recommendations of the House's legislation, by all colleagues, to re-read the amendments from procedural caution, because it is of course of greater value to ensure that they are properly discussed than to be called into question at some point in the future, or even to call into question the whole amendment of the Civil Service Act. Otherwise, I agree with the President of the Constitutional Committee, of course, in terms of content and substance, and we will do our best, or I will be very happy if I can try not to repeat this situation with him. So much for short.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u19	Time. So I will now ask for a speech under Mr Válek's factual remark and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. So far, two applications. So, Mr. Válek MP? He's not present. So it's failing. And now I will ask Mr Marek Benda. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u20	Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I did not question the right of any Member to submit amendments at second reading. That is, of course, possible. Nevertheless, I think it is fair to the House that, in particular, a minority government that is dependent on being supported by someone else that will come to an agreement to present this agreement to the committees that are discussing the matter. And, frankly, there was enough time for that. We knew we were breaking up before the holidays. And you're really giving it to us on the second reading day. Maybe it seemed so important and secret to you that you can't tell the opposition, or you don't want it, or something like that. I just consider it impractical, unhappy. I think that there may be mistakes and that we are then faced with a situation like the opposition, and I pointed out last time that if we wanted to apply any changes to that, for example. Saying "you're well, you're not well," so we have to study the designs that have been loaded into the system during this day. If you would simply come as individual Members - and frankly, even the individual Members who come to plenary have, in the vast majority, put this before the committee. And maybe they didn't succeed, and then they say, "We insist and we want to." But those situations where things are brought to plenary are rather exceptional and should not be situations where the government coalition has agreed on something and comes to tell the rest of the House at second reading. That's where I really think we're almost on the edge of a sticker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u21	Well, thank you. And now, in the general debate, I will ask Mrs Věra Kovářová to speak and Mr Bartošek will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to two amendments. The first concerns § 15 para. 2 where the text is added - I quote: "For the heads of service offices, the said does not apply to decisions on matters which are not governed by this law in matters of service, with the exception of those referred to in Section 159 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) (a), (j), (k), (l) '. This is an adjustment specifying the scope of the State Secretary's authorisation to head of service offices, i.e. reflects the same practice as with the leading organisational units of the State under the Labour Code, it is in line with the requirement to minimise administrative complexity and economic rules under the relevant legislation, including the Financial Control Act. The Head of Service shall be the one responsible for the operation of the service office in question, both economically and on the part of the Office's expert agenda, and shall be fully responsible for this. Moreover, under the Civil Service Act, the State Secretary is not presented to the Head of Service, he is not entitled to carry out his duties. In practice it is virtually unrealistic to e.g. The State Secretary has appointed a leave for the Head of the Service Office, which is determined by him in the light of the impeccable operation of the Office and the real possibilities of the Office, in principle in agreement with his representative. The determination of leave thus becomes purely formal, i.e. administratively redundant, and it doesn't make sense. Similarly, business trips are linked to the funds of the Office which are separate entities. The State Secretary can never be so called under the law. the authorising officer of the operation vis-à-vis the Head of Service, but is always an authorised staff member within the Office, as a general rule a representative of the Head of Service. In addition, it is completely unrealistic once again that a business trip should not be approved for the Head of Service and is thus prevented from carrying out the activity for which he is responsible, e.g. the exit to the accident for the purpose of its investigation. At the same time, the proposal maintains normal practice and current regulation, where the head of the service office cannot determine his own salary, pay or evaluate himself. That is the first amendment. The second also relates to Section 151, where the word "at least" is added before the word "10 per cent." It is an adjustment that equalizes the conditions for the amount of emergency surcharge for employees in employment according to the Labour Code and civil servants under the Civil Service Act, respectively. This regulation eliminates the discrepancy between the Labour Code, § 140, and the Civil Service Act, § 151, i.e. Unification of the adjustment on remuneration for service and work emergencies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u23	Well, thank you. And now I will ask for Mr Jan Bartošek's speech, President of the KDU-ČSL. Mr Ferjenčík will be the last to prepare. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u24	Thank you for the floor. After quite a long time after this law has been passed, it is being held by the Chamber of Deputies. For me, it is quite surprising that social democracy presents it here, because representatives of social democracy were together with the ANO movement and with KDU-ČSL the main creators of the original law, which was intended to stabilise the state administration, to motivate people to go and work for the state, to have career growth there, and to set up the adequate permeability of this system, and at the same time to motivate people within the state service to move up. Unfortunately, I thought that social democracy would be the one to hold the flag, with the fact that we want a stable government, and yet it was the first to break the spirit of this law at the Ministry of Health. And that was the first point where I actually said, if in the future, we blame anyone for their purpose in systemizing jobs so that they could release officials, so we won't be able to appeal because social democracy was the first one to use systemization as a tool to throw people out of work who were uncomfortable. [[18.50 hours]] Personally, I'm sorry because the state needs a high-quality civil service. He needs people educated there, he needs people who are experts who are motivated to work for the state. This was also one of the reasons why I tabled my two amendments. And I will read them in a detailed debate despite the fact that the rapporteur said that the big comprehensive proposal included these proposals. Indeed, if you submit such a large material during this day, it is at least inconsistent and irresponsible to the committee. I support Mr Marek Benda's proposal because I believe that if the Civil Service Act is to be recast, this should be discussed. Just for the record. The amendment to this Service Act was given in January 2018, at the direct order of the Prime Minister in resignation. That means, there is a need to realize that the attack on the state administration was primarily led by the YES movement, because everyone in power and coalition thinks he will always be there and that at this very moment he needs to put his people there and throw out the uncomfortable ones and throw out the very ones who are from the opposite camp. And I personally am sorry, because I believe that the performance of the public service should be really apolitical. He should avoid changing the way governments change and the way parties change in governments, according to the will of the political parties. This was indeed the main intention of creating the Civil Service Act. It was an effort not to lose historical memory and competence from individual ministries, because of the frequent change of people in ministries, and it is my opinion, each time the Ministry suffered and lost its competence. Just to be a good official, you need to be educated, to know the issues and to know things in context. Not that you've been there for six months, and you're able to understand the whole issue. That's why there's career growth. So, on the one hand, I acknowledge the approach of social democracy, taking into account some things, but I call again, and I would like to hear from the petitioner or rapporteur that it is fair to the constitutionally-legal committee to give him longer time to study the proposal so that he can get acquainted with it. If it makes sense, even for KDU-ČSL I can say that we are ready to discuss it. But really such an extensive material to put there during the day and evening to expect to close the second reading and say, "Okay, let's move on" without any possibility of entering it, seems unfair to other Members as well. So I hope, and I would like to buy us a longer time to study the amendment, because as you have said, rapporteur, there were many things that seemed meaningful to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u25	Thank you. I have two factual points here. So I will first ask the rapporteur, Ms Kateřina Valachová, and Minister Klára Dostálová will prepare herself. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u26	Thank you. Jan Bartošek knows that the state service - the Civil Service Act is my heart's business, so, of course, the attack that I might be able to participate in the decimation of the state service cannot be left unanswered. As I have pointed out several times here, and I really believe that the changes that we have made continue to guarantee the career system of state service. Once again: career service system. And I am glad that I learned during my second reading that Marek Benda, through the President, is also a supporter of the career system of the public service, and of course I appreciate that we have put him on our side over the years. In any case, social democracy kept what it had promised, or what it called into question the original proposal at first reading. That is why I also have to say once again to all my colleagues that these are not massive changes, but in some parts about reverse and in some parts about real adjustments that are minimal in terms of the number of legislative texts and respect the debate that has taken place. That is why I do not believe that we would shorten colleagues and colleagues from being able to comment on the amendment, especially if, in five minutes' time, the hearing ends and we do not negotiate this law at second reading today, and it is clear that, of course, we will return to it and we will have time to... or those colleagues, colleagues who have not met the amendments, will have time to get to know them more deeply. However, I stress once again that second reading does not serve to express amendments to one another, but serves to read the amendments and the guarantee committee will have the opportunity to discuss them. [[Time warning]] [[Time warning]] [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u27	There. Madam Secretary, please. So it's the last application so far. Your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u28	Thank you once more for the floor, Mr President. I, of course, respond by means of you to a call from Mr Benda. I am very sorry for not introducing the amendment. She did it, Mrs. Valachová. Well, I'll recap. Indeed, in that amendment under No. 1382 is that the conditions of the Deputy Minister of the Interior for Civil Service and State Secretary are aligned. Today everyone has it differently, while doing complex activities of providing with the operation of the Ministry of Government in the field of personalism, etc. So it seems more appropriate for the Secretary of State to actually be relieved of disciplinary responsibility, or to go outside of responsibility. It has also not been addressed at all who is proposing to the Government for the appeal of the Deputy Minister of Interior for Civil Service and Personnel Director. It is therefore clearly added that the proposal is submitted by the Minister of the Interior and, at the same time, that the proposal for appeal by the Secretary of State is submitted by the competent member of the Government or by the Head of Office. The principle is therefore respected that the person proposing the adoption also proposes an appeal to align this. So I just hope that I've distracted the doubts that have been raised here, that it really is in the interest of aligning those positions with the Deputy Minister of the Interior for the Civil Service and the Secretary of State, or the activities are carried out comprehensively both of these positions for the Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u29	Thank you. And now, for the general debate, I will ask for a speech as Mr Ferjenčík's last Member. I'm just pointing out that, under the agreement of the MPs, we're done at 7:00. However, I will let you finish, of course, because the meeting day is within 21 hours. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u30	Thank you for the floor. My serious colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore have to add to this objection by my colleague Benda, because my colleague Valachová's amendment has ten points, which is simply not enough. It's a very significant intervention in the law. In fact, it reduces to a large extent the possibility of other Members to apply their amendments and apply them in relation to what has been discussed in the committee. Here it is very, very difficult to make legislation consensually, when a coalition comes that doesn't even have a majority, and actually puts a package of changes at second reading on the table, so actually no one can react to it anymore and they have to take it in the sense of take it or leave it. You just have ten changes here, and if you like eight and two don't like it, I'm afraid that's one suggestion. We may be able to vote separately, but that's what we'd know about the committee, but we can't judge at this point. So at least I welcome the fact that the detailed debate will continue, so that at least the comprehensive amendment will be able to respond in the further discussion of the law. And it must be noted that this is merely a coincidence because the debate on the EU's multiannual financial framework has passed, and it is not an intention and part of any proposal to recommend that I encourage the return to second reading and discuss it once more in the committee so that it is clear what the coalition compromise really is, and that other parties can comment on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u31	Thank you. I'm registering that you're also making a motion to return the bill to discuss the guarantee committee. I'll look around the O.R. I still see a point of fact. Please, you have two minutes. I'll let you finish. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u32	Thank you. We are finished at 7:00, but I still have the need to say that it would be a good idea not to end the general debate for the reason that I mentioned here, because what we will allow the constitutionally-legal committee to discuss and, if necessary, to make further amendments from the debate, because I think it is really an interest of the entire Chamber of Deputies to adopt a good law on civil service. So this is my request not to have a debate. It's 7:00. This will not close the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-10-02-ps2017-019-09-008-010.u33	So I would end today's meeting with this. I am not ending the general debate, I am ending the day. I also have an application here with Mr Benda's factual comment. Have a nice evening, and I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00.
