ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 167/2008 Sb., on the prevention and correction of environmental damage and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 173/ - first reading We interrupted the discussion of this point on Tuesday, 11 September t. r. in the general debate. I ask that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment take the seats at the rapporteur's table, Richard Brabec, yes, the Minister is coming, and the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Dana Balcarová. We will therefore continue the interrupted general debate. I have no one here to enter into the general debate, however I have here - Mr Stanjura reporting, yes, wait, Mr Zahradník, but Mr Stanjura has a point of fact, here he is. But that is still from 9/11, so the factual point is probably no longer up to date, so I am erasing Mr Stanjura and I will ask Mr Zahradník to speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u2	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we remember that yesterday the item was interrupted in the general debate, as the Vice-President recalled. I finished my speech, then Mr Václav Klaus spoke, and then it was already here at 19 o'clock and it was the end of the day. We should therefore vote today on the proposals tabled. I volunteered today to remind you what it was all about. Preventing economic damage and trying to remedy it can now be quite very well. Anyone who feels harmed by this kind of damage, who thinks that it could happen and that it is necessary to prevent and correct it, then has this possibility, can submit his submissions and this submission is then dealt with by the authority of the official. The competent authorities shall evaluate the application and then proceed. In my opinion, this is a perfectly satisfactory procedure and there is no need to change anything about it. We know how this works, how many different environmental organisations make their submissions, causing great problems. However, the European Union has found that our legal situation is not sufficient, it is not satisfactory, and it is forcing us here under the threat of major financial sanctions, which would be enforced both on a one-time basis and on a daily basis from us, if we do not accept the proposal imposed by the European Commission. I'm just seeing that the law doesn't get any extra attention. So I am the only one debating today, Mr Stanjura, who has not actually made his technical comment for just a few seconds, but otherwise none of you are expressing itself. Perhaps you find the sword hanging over us very hard, the millions of crowns of sanctions, or maybe you think the law is irrelevant. Finally, the Minister mentioned here that no environmental organisation has actually used the instrument in its current form, that it is simply a formality, that it is not worth even considering and that we must approve it, so now let it pass through the first reading, then quickly pass the second reading time, if possible, and then quickly approve it at the third reading, let it pass through the Senate, the President and have peace from the sanctions. But the thing is, it's a little different. As I said here yesterday, environmental activists are gradually losing their ability to exercise their influence and how they could serve their submissions, thereby delaying various important activities and constructions. I may have mentioned the construction law yesterday, which excluded from certain management of the NGO. What is the purpose of this? What's the purpose of these submissions? It's hard to prove if there isn't some sort of ultimately economic fulfillment behind it. I believe that if that were the case, perhaps some organs would continue to do so. Nevertheless, I think that at least the ideology is certainly harmful to the public interest. I just remember that when people on TV shows up responsible for building roads with us, such as the Minister of Transport Ťok or the Director of the Road and Motorway Directorate Kroupa, this is justified by the many years delay in modernising the D1 motorway, especially by preventing them from submitting environmental organisations. The Children of the Earth submit their submissions three minutes before the deadline expires, in order to sort of prolong the duration of the complaint. Then, in some process of agreement, they withdraw their submissions for great media interest. They're blocking highway D11, blocking highway D8. Basically, we meet everywhere with their action. And now we're gonna put this big tool in their hands, this kind of weapon by promoting them over other organizations, over other institutions, and giving them the power to just block from another wing the constructions, the activities that they don't want and that they want to defend. It is, of course, a actually certain seed of a possible corruption environment that could arise here, which is why I call on you to support my proposal to reject the law at first reading, to try to at least stand up to the European Commission and force our government to negotiate with it another form of law, which would so dramatically give activists their great power without any responsibility. [[14.40 hours]] Therefore, if my proposal had not been approved, I only ask the President to record that then my second proposal is here - to return this bill to the Government for revision. If it doesn't pass, and I admit that I'm not entirely optimistic, I'm used to the fact that these proposals by the coalition cross-cuttingly rejecting, she's probably not aware of the danger that's lurking at us, so I just want to point out that I'm going to try to find at second reading amendments that would at least correct the law a little bit, in my opinion, put it back out of my head and correct it completely out of the joint. So that is my request, which I wanted to make at the end of the discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I've got a mark on this place. We will first vote on your motion to dismiss. Subsequently, the application for reimbursement of the application submitted to the applicant for completion. So we're marked. Mr. Stanjura... It's so factual that it's fallen for you. Again to de facto now that you were from last night to de facto? So you're in line. You'll be third. Or if you want priority rights? I still have the rapporteur here. He's also privileged. So I'll ask the rapporteur. You've chosen factual, so let's go to de facto for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words of my fellow Zahradník. I would like to emphasise here that this amendment is about preventing environmental damage. That's actually the main point. This is not about NGOs at all, but it is about us being able to prevent environmental harm by having the possibility to fine the culprits who cause the environmental damage. Or in order to correct it, we certainly often know that quite a lot of funding is needed. So the main purpose of this amendment is to prevent environmental damage. Mr Zahradník mentioned here that at the moment there is ecological damage if it is caused, so the institute is used and works very well. I would like to respond by saying that it has not been used once. Not once. If, according to Mr. Zahradník, it works very well, it's that it's not used, it's his opinion, but I'd say it's not good, but it's wrong. This law has not yet been used in the Czech Republic and it is not just that they cannot participate in an NGO. I would like to point out here a matter arising from the analysis, or one deficiency that this law already has at the moment, and that is that, if the eco-interest procedure starts, the damage must first be paid by the municipality or inspection, and only then it can enforce it. This means that the municipality or inspection must deposit its own funds, and that is very limited, and that is why it does not happen, because then it has the money tied up and does not know if it will actually recover them. That's one shortage. The second deficiency I see is very difficult to prove ecological damage and the third is a very narrow definition of eco-image in the Czech Republic. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u5	Thank you. However, I warn you that you have a priority right, so feel free to sign in again. Maybe next time, not really, and then you can have unlimited space. Mr. Jaroslav Holík, on the point of fact. Mr Jan Zahradník subsequently made his application for a factual remark. I therefore still have priority rights for the general debate, followed by Mr Stanjura. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. There is no way I want to reduce the construction of roads and motorways, because this operation is significantly more environmentally friendly. But we often get into conflicting situations. I'm from Zlín County and Holešov is not far from Zlín. The former airport, under which there is a huge reservoir of drinking water, where clean water flows from the Hostyn Mountains. And we want to run a freeway across this area to expand the industrial zone. Thirty thousand people who draw from this location will just be unlucky. And the environmentalists, when they screamed, look out, there's a threat to clean water, so they weren't answered. But it was answered when they said: there's a hamster. We did it. Now there's gonna be a brown bow tie. Please, let us consider, and I would intercede once more to postpone this law and discuss it properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u7	I also thank the honourable Member for his time. So now, with Mr Jan Zahradník in fact, the President of the ODS, Mr Stanjura, will be prepared at the moment. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to draw some attention to the partial logical contradiction in what the rapporteur, the chairman of our committee, said, in the fact that the culprits of the injury must be affected. So he's the Environmental Damage Prevention Act. There are no culprits. Well, maybe there's some dirty suspects, if that's what it is. And then, in correcting the historical culprit, the culprit may be sought. And I want to say significantly that I do not think that anyone who intends or who has already committed environmental harm should be affected in any way and that any reimbursement of the cost of removing it has been enforced. But I think the existing instrument is sufficient. That activists can submit their submissions to the Czech Inspection Department. These institutions know how to handle it, they have the apparatus. They have a lot of experience. And if the European Commission does not trust our institutions with state confidence, then that is a matter which must be put to a great halt, and really carefully consider this law before we approve it in a panic before sanctions. What Mr. Holík said. Of course, I agree with that here. If not cancel, then at least postpone, return to the recasting and have some discussion about it, so that a proposal can be put forward that would be comfortable not only with the Commission, but also with our conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u9	Thank you. I'll read the apologies now. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes for medical reasons between 12:30 and 19:00 today. Subsequently, Mr Radim Fiala apologizes until the end of the day for reasons of work, and the Member and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. There. I would therefore now ask for Mr Stanjura's speech. Please, in the general debate. And it's the last one entered into the debate so far. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u10	Thank you for the floor. Then I'll have two questions for the Minister. One specific and one in general. First of all, the debate whether or not it concerns environmental organisations and activists. If you look at the proposed § 8, then if you take the paragraph. 2, the first one seems logical to me: "physical or legal person who is affected by environmental damage or who is likely to be affected." I don't think there's any argument against that. That makes sense to me. But then, while there is b), it seems problematic to me: "a private legal person whose subject matter is the protection of the environment under the founding legal act and whose main activity is not a business or other gainful activity'. And that's exactly what my colleague Zahradník was talking about. So the bill also concerns environmental organisations. The particular question is actually based on the explanatory note, when under the letter. b)... second, I want to quote this precisely when the compliance of proposed legislation with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic is assessed, the wording is used: "The subject of the amendment is exclusively the provision of § 8 to correct the alleged shortcomings in the transposition of the directive by the Commission." The question is, do we agree? Yes, we know that's what the Commission says. I'm interested in our government's position on whether or not they agree. Another thing he's suggesting. But whether he agrees or thinks that the current adjustment is sufficient. And now, in my opinion, the more general question, but more importantly. Again we are in the campaign and also candidates of the ANO movement as well as ODS candidates and many other parties say that the big problem is the slowness of the construction of transport and other infrastructure. And we often say, and it is very often true that the European Commission, the transposition of European directives, is responsible. I agree with all that. But then I ask... [[14.50 hours]] Let me see, I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region, we have two neighbours - Slovakia and Poland, where European law applies as well as in our country. And that's where it's built much faster. Like this, building preparation goes much faster to be precise. I'm not talking about the actual time of implementation, to be exact. In Slovakia and Poland. If you visit Poland this year and compare it with the state of their motorway network ten and twelve years ago, it's another country. Whoever ever traveled there then and now has to tell me the truth. And the same rules apply. They're good for it, and we're not good for it. And I know what hell D1 modernization is on that route. That's a given route that's somewhere extending by 75 centimeters, sometimes by a meter. And an incredible official battle to do that. The general question. What is it - you have been in the government for five years now, Minister, and your colleagues and colleagues - that the process of preparation cannot be accelerated? You know very well that we very often make proposals that might help. They don't pass very often. I'm sure we'll go back to the famous EIA and repeat. It also stopped us from building with a similar argument that if we do not accept it, we will stop drawing European money and so on. I wonder how many times you've tried to change the rules, Minister, and if we've found any allies? Because, of course, we don't associate it as a country ourselves. Because when the same European rules apply elsewhere, we either have worse implementations and we add things that are not with our neighbors. And I specifically used Poland and Hungary on purpose and I don't use Germany and Austria because they had a similar starting position to ours. And it just goes much faster there, and that makes it much more efficient, and that, of course, contributes to the economic development of those regions. It's just a disproportionate time for us. I see a colleague of Vondrák here from our region, and what we are experiencing with 400 meters of the Long Red. In the long run, and I don't blame Mr. Governor, the third fourth political representation solves a lousy 400 metres in the long run. Tens of thousands of citizens are suffering because those vehicles could have gone somewhere else long ago, and we can't figure it out. There's a mistake of the ŘSD, then there's a dispute as to whether it was a cadastral or something. We just can't figure out a trivial thing from my point of view, 400 meters. The rest of the comms are done. Tens of thousands of citizens today and daily suffer for years. I remember when we made an exception for the EIA for ten buildings, that Long-Turn Red was there. I don't want to repeat the debate, it wouldn't help in a particular case. It didn't help at all in our country. That's when the Department of Transport chose the wrong procedure. Instead of saying "it was a dead end" and putting the heads together, the county, the communities and the state, and making it happen, we drag it all the time. I have been studying the material of the council of our region these days, where the Deputy Director of Transport submitted an interim report. That's actually a copycat. And I don't blame the regional representation, if we understand each other. They're doing the best they can. But they're not capable, they don't have the tools to solve the problem. And I think the state, the county, and the self-government need to sort this out. And if we note that this cannot be resolved, then we must change legislation. That's not possible. There is no dispute between the village, the region and the state which way and how. They're all in the same boat, and we haven't been able to figure it out for years. And it almost doesn't matter who's in those functions. So the problem will be elsewhere. It will not be a problem in particular persons, in particular persons. And you might be asking why I'm saying this on this bill. Because it's one piece next to another. I don't know if there's supposed to be a celebratory press conference for head of the ŘSD, that - now I don't know if the Earth children, who withdrew their objection three minutes before the end. I don't know if it's right, it's right. But the state here is just failing. And we only have two options. It's either personal or systemic. I think it's a lot more systemic than that. In the long term, we offer cooperation to resolve this, and we do not succeed in doing so in the long term. That's how I use this bill. I'm leaning to the motion to reject it, try to negotiate it. I think Europe has many other problems and more problems than this little thing. And if you don't, at least let's just leave the people it's touching. That makes sense. I always say that if those who live there object to any construction, live there, do business, it has logic because it immediately affects them. But if someone from the other side of the Republic is giving the protests, it just doesn't have any logic, and it's very often obstructive. And ideological prejudice. Not the material comments of the people who live there who know the situation. Of course, the other side of the matter, and in this the situation is gradually improving - even the state must improve in the preparation of constructions. Because some problems can be estimated in advance, but sometimes the designers can't tell themselves, they draw it the way it's easiest for them, with a reason that it'll be faster. In the end, it turns out to be a slower path, because those who are affected by the construction - and I say, those who have legitimate concerns - are often right and the state is wasting time by repeating the procedure very often. We have been in the 416 amendment, which we have approved, tried, approved by such a large majority, in fact all the parliamentary clubs, for the first time we have put into some kind of construction process, even if it is only for selected buildings, fiction of consent. Because apart from those who spoil it from the outside, you will know, and if you don't, your fellow minister will tell you how often it is waiting for the opinion of the government authority concerned. As long as it waits for the state to decide. We put in the consent fiction not to automatically consent, but to just get it moving. And I think it's time for the debate that we could have it in the construction law in general. That if, within 60 days, the public authority concerned does not express itself, we will consider that it agrees with the construction. This is a matter that could significantly accelerate the preparation of investment, construction. You know there's a big problem with building apartments and apartments. But that's a lot like the infrastructure problem. Tedious building procedures, ideological resistance of many people who simply do not want it, and then it ends up being affordable in large cities. Then I would ask the Minister to answer the specific question whether the government agrees or not. As he would appear - although we have not yet tabled the amendment, logically, we are only at first reading - if we had in this section 8 paragraph. 2 they left only that point (a) and not that point (b). Because it's logical, I'm not protesting against it. This point (b) seems pointless to me and creates room for those ideological opponents and for those unnecessary obstructions in the preparation of constructions. None of us wants environmental damage to occur. I just want to say that in the morning we approved the abolition of the National Property Fund, and in that debate, the question of remedying environmental damage fell a little bit. I quoted the sums invested in the last four years in the first reading of the bill, and they fell dramatically. About 3 to 3.5 billion a year for around one billion or less. And again, I'm from the edge where we have old environmental burdens, and instead of dropping it, we'd need to speed up the removal of old environmental burdens. Because the later we do this, the more expensive it will be and the more the environment suffers. Yet, in the morning, the majority in the Chamber of Deputies approved the opposite step, and at this point it is not at all clear what will be financed in future years to remove old environmental damage. And it's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister wishes to respond. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to speak in the general debate. Mr. President Stanjura sometimes blamed me for saving it until the end. It was never on purpose, but so that it could still be reacted. I wouldn't want it to come together, and I'm older, and I'd probably forget it, too, so I'm just saying again, please, I'd like to ask for a 30-day reduction in the committee procedure, that is, in the context of a general debate. Now, about the questions. Yes, the government, because it was unblemished material, has actually agreed that the transposition, although I would like to submit it, has repeatedly tried to convince the European Commission that our legislation is sufficient, so it has agreed with this amendment, namely that we are able and ready to remedy the shortcomings in the transposition of the directive on both points. And actually, the second point answers your question about what would have happened if the second paragraph hadn't been there. Because the objections were two. One was, let's say, maybe more formal for me, that while in that law No. 167/2008 Sb. is, in the opinion of the Directive, the main method or the main procedure for ensuring the application of Article 12, i.e. the application for measures is too official. And it's only as if the next one is, that is, on request. So the European Commission asks that these be equivalent. That's one thing. I think there's probably something there that wouldn't be a problem. I also think that if one is the main one and the other is the secondary one, it doesn't mean that the secondary one can't be used, but well, let them be equal. [[15.00 hours]] However, there is yet another objection, and this is that, in the opinion of the European Commission, which we are accused of, these shortcomings in transposition, the law does not sufficiently anchor the guaranteed rights of non-governmental organisations seeking environmental protection, that is to say, the right to submit to the competent authority any comments relating to environmental damage and, furthermore, the right to require the competent authority to take preventive or corrective action. That's how it's actually directly defined in the grievances. And that's also the answer to what would have happened if the second paragraph hadn't been there. Well, I'm sure it would remain that they would simply still insist that we did not bring this directive sufficiently into the Czech legal system. I add another complaint - again I quote - that according to Czech legislation, the right to information on the initiation of proceedings for the imposition of preventive or corrective measures is not sufficiently guaranteed by non-governmental organisations seeking environmental protection. I quote this specifically from the European Commission's criticism. Your second question, more general. You are certainly right in that at first sight our starting position is similar to the default position of Slovakia or Poland, but it is definitely not the same. We talked about it. Firstly, the chaining of processes that we know well and which was also the main cause, or until now the main cause of many delays in the construction preparation of projects, that is, the EIA, whether completed in the detection proceedings or the large EIA, the territorial proceedings, the construction proceedings, was actually unique at least compared to Poland. I want to say today, and that's something I've said here repeatedly, and I can clearly prove on many examples that at least the last few years of EIA is no longer the main problem in terms of delay. As a standard for EIA processes, we are already coming to the same level as in Germany, Austria and other countries, which means the standard EIA needs to be five or six months, and that doesn't make any difference anymore. The problem is what happens afterwards, virtually. After the release of the EIA, what are then, say, the ability to decide on this in the administrative justice system, how quickly these processes last. And that is something that we have tried - and I can say on the basis of a number of specific cases - successfully in recent years, even though we have been blamed for some of the EIA amendments, but they have also meant in a number of cases actually shortening, and we have a good response to this by the construction public, the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, which, as you know, has not exactly been in favour of some changes in legislation and today recognises, after the application, that they have brought their effect. But all of us sitting here, and of course President Stanjura knows very well that it is a complex, that we in the recodification of the building law, which the Ministry of Regional Development is working intensively on, and where we are also involved, including the fiction of consent, must be affected by all these things. This means not only partial processes and the possibility of unifying those processes, i.e. uniform or coordinated management, which is possible in these cases today, but also, of course, to intervene in the structure of the building offices, in their decisions, in deadlines and also in the administrative justice system. I am convinced that if we have taken the partial steps that have already brought the effect, we are certainly ready. I can speak for myself, I do not want to speak for Minister Dostálová, but I am almost certain that I can speak on her behalf too, when I say that we will welcome very much as in the case of 416, and it is even necessary to agree with the entire significant Chamber of Deputies and the Senate on such a fundamental modification of the building law and certainly consensus will be sought across. I think it's obvious. I would just go back to what my colleague Zahradník said, and that there really is no blocking of buildings in this case, because the environmental damage, or this law, this directive, virtually. This amendment, in some way, has nothing to do with transport constructions and the possibility of blocking transport buildings. I don't want to say it's a formality. It is not a formality, but it is simply an adjustment that I am deeply convinced that if we do not do it, we will not block any constructions and will not allow any extension, however we agree that in some cases I am far from saying that it is really in favour of the environment over some of the specific activities of some organisations. But they are individualities, and I think that they need to be prosecuted, and they certainly have to fight them, because they, among other things, are counterproductive, even from the point of view of those for me, really serious NGOs, because that also ruins their name. I would like to ask the House to take this into account and send this amendment to second reading, not only because we are really at risk of quite a major risk of sanctions for the European Union as part of the proceedings, but I am not threatening to blackmail. I'm just saying current status. I'm sure if we transcend it like this, we're not going to stop any construction. I believe that we are also able to discuss this in the committees within 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u13	Thank you, Minister. Now I'll read the apology. Today, between 17 o'clock and the end of the working day, for personal reasons, Mr Marian Jurečka apologizes. He also apologizes with this apology on September 13th, tomorrow, from the entire day of the hearing. Now I have three factual points. I am the first to call on Mr Zahradník to speak, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared and then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u14	Mr President, thank you. I would like to respond to what the rapporteur said at the beginning of her speech. She considered it a technical or factual remark. She said that this is a law that does not concern environmental NGOs very much, but concerns the prevention of environmental damage. I must say that this law is very much about non-governmental environmental organisations. I mean, all these Earth children, gentlemen Patrik, the DOUHA, Calla, Arnika and I don't know everything, feel like they could be removed from their position in a public space that is defined for the authorisation of all kinds of activities, and that they would somehow not miss anyone. So I think they had to welcome this law based on the European Commission's directive as a gift from heaven. They may have the right here pursuant to § 8 para. 6, they may request the competent authority to be informed in writing, without undue delay, of any proceedings initiated, the imposition of preventive measures and corrective measures for a period of one year from the date of application. This request must be specified and may be repeated. Well, that's kind of a parallel structure for all the AOPK, Czech inspections, ministries, they'll just be able to study, to comment on it, to ask for further comments, to repeat it, and, of course, to delay all the processes accordingly. So another reason to reject the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u15	Thank you for keeping time. I would therefore now ask Mr Václav Klaus to speak with a factual remark for two minutes and then Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u16	Hello. I was on the same topic yesterday, but I guess it was about 18.59 and they all turned on the vehicles from here on the remote control and ran from the O.R. Well, I'd like to remind you one more time. I appeal to you, your free vote. Remember how nicely we discussed and voted on business opening hours. People showed their will, someone represented exclusively the employees, someone saw it in a broader perspective. Eventually the vote began, everyone expressed what they thought about it, and somehow it turned out. At this point, we have a similar situation. I understand that the rapporteur is for those non-governmental environmental organisations, and she supports it, she has the right to do so, she has been elected this way, she promised the voters. It's okay. I have the exact opposite opinion, but many of you have the opposite opinion, too, and if she were to vote freely, she would never support it. But you here under the influence of the European Union and the plea of the Minister of the Environment will eventually push the law against your own will. So on this I appeal - choose freely. I mean, it's terrible to sit here and vote differently than I want, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u17	So it was Mr Klaus and now Mr Zbyněk Stanjura for the ODS MP, two minutes in fact, and then Mrs Balcarová will be prepared for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u18	I would like to respond to the Minister's speech. He actually agrees with the European Commission's reservations, to sum it up, from the speech I understood. I wasn't talking about the EIA, I was talking about the whole construction work. It's obvious, and your performance shows that the problem is in our legislation when we compare ourselves with our neighbors. And I kind of hate the "now, I don't want to speak for her, the secretary's working very hard on it" kind of thing. I'm not questioning that. But for the memoirs, when the Minister of Regional Development Věra Jourová performed here, her priority was to prepare a brand-new building law. That's four and three quarters of a year. When she came to one of her first appearances - yes, Minister Šlechtová waved at me - that would be three and three quarters of a year approximately, she said: although there is an amendment, support here, but we are working intensively on a completely new construction law. Now there's another secretary, there's another lady who was still there as deputy, working on that whole new construction law again. And that was five years ago. I'm not questioning the fact that it's being worked on, but the efficiency has been zero so far. Zero. Not a single bill of construction, good, bad, better, worse, didn't come. But we're working. If I throw a pile of sand from left to right every day, it's hard work, but what's the effect? It's kind of like a yeti. Fiction of consent. Who invented it and pushed it? The opposition, us, without the expertise of many ministries. I'm glad we got a match on this, and I'm glad we're debating that it's gonna be used in the building bill, but when are we gonna have a proposal here? It's complicated, it's complex, we know all that, but five years might be enough to prepare a proposal that's complex, complex, I don't know what everything is. But there's no political courage, let's face it. Minister Šlechtová had the right attitude: once and for all. One day, let the affected public enter. Let us talk about the degree at which it is most effective in terms of both construction proceedings and in terms of the legitimate interests of those affected by the construction, those living or doing business there. There's even more of these degrees today. I know the Minister of the Environment knows, so let's just remember that. There are still principles of territorial development, a zoning plan, then the EIA, the building, and then they question and fall into the positions of the government authorities concerned. And over and over again. And, Minister Dostálová, we've had enough. I know it's not your fault, you haven't been there long enough. Five years. So when do you bring in the building bill or when do we start working on it? We always make sure here once a year when we accidentally hit it, so we say this to each other, like we're all ready, we all feel it's a problem, then we work hard again, complicated, complex, I don't know what everything, and still nothing. And in three years there's an election, watch out! And a law like that won't be discussed in two months. So we're out of 2019. I don't know if the real term for the new construction law is January 1, 2020, I don't know. I'm afraid not. Well, we're already in the 2021 election year, that's gonna be the pressure of everyone concerned, who's gonna lower his rights, I can see the courage -
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u19	You've run out of time, you've been de facto, but at the same time you signed up for the general debate. However, a reporter has been formally registered before you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u20	Well, I'm sorry, I'll let the rapporteur go, and then I'll be back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u21	Please. So we will now put the word of Mrs Balcarová into the general debate and, consequently, I am registering Mr Stanjura's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u22	Thank you for the floor, and thank you, Mr. Stanjur, for letting me go. I hope that what I say will convince us that the Institute of Ecological Damage is useful and there is no need to act so forcefully against it here. At the same time, I offer my colleagues from ODS that we have had some quite important material processed by the Parliamentary Institute. It is extensive and we look at it, the assignment was how other European countries actually use the institute. And believe me, they're taking advantage of him, and most of all, he's being used by you, Poland. Poland is not afraid of the environmental harm institute, nor is it afraid of NGOs. Compared to us, it has very widely defined entities that can initiate, so that it does not actually restrict the persons who can submit the complaint. And believe that NGOs are the most active. You mentioned here that Poland is doing well with the construction of transport infrastructure, but, as the Minister said, the Institute of Environmental Damage has basically no relation to the construction of transport infrastructure, nor does the situation have anything to do with the construction law. I really recommend you study the material, I'll give it to you, and then you won't talk about anything other than what we're talking about here, the amendment to the Environmental Damage Prevention Act. To the Republic of Poland, just so you know, they're really using this institute the most. They use it primarily to protect the soil. It is also because they have widely defined soil protection. And for example, the Czech Republic has it that it only perceives damage when there is a serious risk to human health. Polák have it much more widely and assess damage, even if damage is done as a deterioration of soil quality as well as in terms of growing other products on it or in general soil erosion. They just understand the institute more widely and use it as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u23	Thank you, and I am now the last to sign up for Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's general debate, the last Member who has so far signed up. And there was a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u24	Thank you. I will gladly take the material, however I have spoken in general terms, a general question which does not concern this law. [[unintelligible]] I'm aware of that. But I think, in general, when we talk about building proceedings, that there's room or I have an opportunity to say something about it. I just asked a specific question about the law, the Minister answered me, I understand, but then we turned the debate in a more general direction. The problem - and I agree that this will, of course, in no way, or probably in no way cause delays in construction. And the problem is, let's listen to the expression of those who are running or what our representatives from all sides are saying, what's the problem. Right, right, right, slow building procedure. I live on the Czech-Polish border, so we maintain lively contacts at municipal level with our colleagues and we know how the laws apply there. That's important. And the result is clear. I'm sure you're right about the fact that it was, for example, lively -- that was nice when you said that they were taking advantage of it in Europe, so I wanted to react that Chile wasn't in Europe, but Chile was meant otherwise, it was with a small "w" and not with a big "ch." But the results are obvious. In Poland, there was a massive investment in transport infrastructure. Yes, it is true that mostly to the road network, that the railway network in our country is in better shape than our northern colleagues in Poland. Which is why I'm asking where the dog is buried. [[15.20 hours]] Looks like we can agree with the government that a buried dog is in domestic legislation. Well, then there's a legitimate complaint from the opposition that after five years, this is a little small to say. Plus, if we agree with the opposition in this assessment. And when the third secretary says he's making a new building bill, either the previous ones were planning it wrong, or they weren't telling us the truth then, or we're not hearing the truth now. I don't know. There's an ex-minister right here in the hall. There's one in Brussels. I don't think we even negotiated her point once a year when she comes here to tell us what's new in Brussels. And we need to get back to the debate. And we were just asking questions, or I was asking questions about that paragraph or point (b) (1). 2 § 8. It's been explained to me that's what the complaint is. That doesn't make any sense to me. Plus, there's this condition that mostly it's not the main object of business, but it might be the main object of business from that definition. So even those who do business in the field of environmental protection, and let's not say that there is no such thing, and it is legitimate, so they might as well have this paragraph, respectively. This item is intended to cover the following items in Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013: 2 § 8 to be used. If we make sure that it's actually just formal, that it's not being used, that it's actually useless - and I've also heard that in a fiscal compact. Always: let's approve, it doesn't matter. So I'm asking if we're making contracts in our private lives that are useless, that we're signing a contract that doesn't hurt me, but it doesn't bring me anything. I don't believe any of us signed a contract like this that doesn't bring anything, but it's okay, it doesn't hurt, so sign it. I wouldn't sign a contract like that. And I don't think any of you or the vast majority of you. So either we need it or we don't. If we don't need it, and he said it, in other words, and not so hard, Mr. Minister, let's not approve. Or we need it, then I ask why we didn't do it right the first time. Didn't we know that when we did it last time? That's what we want. I'm not talking about other people right now. Or maybe we don't want it, and we're afraid of the sanctions again. That's, I'd say, the third most common word, then "I am," then maybe "I didn't want to get off, but I'll get off" and then "infringement." Those are probably the most common words that fall here. And I've heard it here in the eight years I've been in the House, at least a hundred times, that we're at risk of infringement. And I'm asking you how many times it's really started. And how many times has it been launched with other countries that do not fulfil other obligations? Are they all as scary as we are? I don't think so. What exactly did we negotiate? What kind of exception for yourself? For example, I'm from the Moravian-Silesian Region. When we joined the EU, we negotiated lower VAT on diapers, and the Polák negotiated lower environmental limits for their factories. Then it's competition, when you have factories next to each other a few kilometers, one has a duty to have massive environmental investments, the other doesn't. And imagine, the wind usually blows from Poland to the Czech Republic, not the other way around. We weren't able to make it any different. So don't worry about it. Let's negotiate! Let's see if we can get an ally. And it will certainly turn out that not everything the European Commission wants we must do. Plus, it's been a few months since we're gonna have a new European Commission. And we repeatedly call for a debate on Czech national interests, about having a common position. And it's okay. Yes, tomorrow we will discuss the financial framework for the next programming period and we look forward to the debate. But it's a little late for plenary. I think having such material has interrupted that it deserves a more detailed, professional debate. [[unintelligible]] And then we can put the main, political arguments for or against in plenary. So much for the rapporteur, isn't it? It's not exactly about the bill. He's pretty simple. Although I will not support this shortening, it is true that the law is so short and so simple that by shortening it, we will not endanger the debate and possible amendment, unlike other, more complex and longer bills. I feel that it has about 15 pages, including the explanatory report and changes in transposition in legislation. So it's not happy, we'd rather have a longer debate, but it's nothing dramatic that would jeopardize the preparation of second and third readings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u25	Thank you. As the last with a factual remark, I have Mr Jan zahradník's enrollment. I don't have any of the other Members registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u26	Mr President, I would like to respond to the rapporteur's words in her proper speech as a Member. Of course, I also met those paragraphs of Act 167/2008, which precede that section 8, which is changed by the amendment. And I understand the environmental damage institute. I have also read the observations of the Parliamentary Institute. And I want to point out that there is no way in hell that this institute is questioning the prevention of environmental damage. Let this, of course, exist here and let those who would like to do so be afraid of what may then affect them. But my point is to keep the shape of the law as it has been, so that it can be filed by natural or legal persons who are affected by environmental harm or who are likely to be so affected that they give it to those institutions that are competent in our public administration and that we do not needlessly strengthen the status of non-governmental environmental organisations so that we do not strengthen their position more than it is in our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u27	Now I have one more point of fact. Member Ivan Adamec. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u28	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, the Minister is a little innocent in this. I think - it was said here - if we had a good construction law, I think this law... [[Several members of the YES stand before the speaker and debate loudly with President Faltynek.]] I don't like to hear a debate under here on a different subject. ... so we would actually let this law pass through the House, as they say, like a butter knife. It wouldn't be a problem. And I would rather appeal to one thing, because, of course, with the environmental activities and those NGOs, we have different experiences. I'm from the area where D11's last negotiation... You know, I'm glad they agreed, but it woke up in me I'd say serious doubts about what the deal really looked like officially. I can imagine anything under it. And, you know, corruption isn't just that someone's handing over money or giving better terms for some kind of contract. Corruption is that it takes better conditions than the others. And it really shouldn't be like that, because they're putting obstructive lawsuits at this point, and they're de facto corrupting the ministry's work in the sense that, in fact, this bill would have gone through without any problems if the experience hadn't been here. I've always reminded you of building law since I've been here. And I would like the government to reconsider its priorities, because I am not saying what to do, what it promised voters, but so that the building bill is the number one priority, so that we, as the opposition, do not have to make any other proposals here to facilitate the construction of line construction, because what really bothers the Czech Republic is transport, transport and transport. And, of course, traffic is related to ecology. And we could talk about it here for hours, which is better, if the network of roads we have here, or if we could just focus traffic on the highways that are urgently needed here. So I'd really like to... [[Attention on time.]] I'm done. Bring us the bill of construction as soon as possible. And maybe I can say for myself at least, maybe even for part of our club, then we won't do any obstructions on such proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u29	Thank you. I have no further applications or factual comments for the general debate. I'll look around the O.R. Then I will end the general debate. I am now asking both Mrs Dana Balcarová's rapporteur and the appellant if they are interested in the final words. No. Neither is the Member. Are you interested in the final word? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this amendment to the Environmental Damage Act. I think it's very important. So I appeal to you and I beg you to support her. The second thing is that I would like to respond to the proposal to shorten the hearing time. I would suggest that we have more time on the Environment Committee for this, which means I do not want that time to be reduced to 30 days. Thank you. So that's my proposal, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u31	Thank you. That is what the Members will decide by voting to conclude. So we will now proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. So I'll show you how we're going to vote. It's pretty simple. First of all, first of all, we will be voting on the motion for a rejection tabled by Mr Jan Zahradník. Subsequently, on the basis of the result of the vote, we will vote on the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. [[There's noise and restlessness in the room.]] I'm interested in checking you out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. Log in again with your voting cards. I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. First of all, we will vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever opposes rejection, press the button and raise your hand. In voting order number 53, 159 Members registered, for 20, against 109. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will therefore now vote on a further proposal, and that is the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of returning the submitted proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Whoever is against the return, press the button and raise your hand. In voting order number 54, 161 Members registered, for 50, against 89. The motion to return was rejected. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to the next committee as a guarantee or another? No, then we will proceed to the vote. I'll tell you what we're going to vote on. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee? Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In voting order number 55 registered 162 Members, for 161. The result is accepted. This means, I note, that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Mr. Zahradník. I wonder if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee for discussion. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u32	Mr President, since, in my view, the issue of the environment is only partially discussed, in part, it is indeed a constitutionally legal problem, I would suggest that the constitutionally legal committee should also deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-12-ps2017-019-02-006-025.u33	I wonder if anyone else has another suggestion. Yes, Mr. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please. Ambassador, please. [[The MP cancels his performance.]] You're stahovat, great. We will vote on one single proposal. I'll give you what we're going to vote on. There is a proposal that the draft law be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting order number 56 registered 162 Members, for 32, against 71. The motion was denied. In the general debate, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline for discussing the proposal by 30 days. Minister Brabec has spoken. We will now vote on whether we agree to shorten the deadline for discussion by 30 days. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In voting order number 57, 162 Members signed up, for 81, against 49. The application for a reduction in the deadline was rejected. This is the end of the discussion of this press for the moment. Let's move on to the next point. This is the point
