ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-005-016.u1	16. Government Bill on the Distribution of Insurance and Security /German Press 48/ - first reading Under the authority of the government, the proposal submitted will be given by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, who I hereby give the floor to. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-005-016.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the second time. Allow me to present a government bill on insurance and reinsurance distribution. The proposal I propose to you is a new comprehensive regulation on the distribution of products in the insurance sector and completely replaces the existing Act on insurance intermediaries and insurers of insurance events. Let me focus on the most fundamental points of this law. I will first comment on the transposition of this law because it contains certain elements of national regulation. It is a transposition law implementing the European Insurance Distribution Directive. However, the draft law also contains elements of national regulation that respond to some of the specific problems of the domestic insurance market. These are mainly damage to clients in the negotiation of life insurance, the problem of low professional qualifications of insurance distributors and significantly limited supervisory instruments of the Czech National Bank as a competent supervisory authority. [[9.50 hours]] As regards the unification of the regulation of distribution for the entire financial market, this is another of the fundamental issues that this law addresses. The conceptual objective is to complete the initial integration of sectoral adjustments to the provision and mediation of financial services. Where this is not prevented by the transposed directive or by the specifics of insurance, it follows an adjustment that is already in force in the capital market and in the consumer credit sector. This intersectoral unification of regulation, consisting primarily of the use of the same factual and procedural institutes governing the distribution of financial services, will enable the rule of law to be clarified, to make the exercise of supervision more effective, as well as to reduce costs for regulated persons. Now allow me to comment in more detail on the most important parts of the proposed law. First, to unify consumer protection for various ways to negotiate insurance. The existing Insurance Intermediaries Act covers only the activities of insurance intermediaries. The new directive, on the other hand, requires that the insurance companies and their employees meet qualitatively the same requirements, in particular in terms of the rules of negotiations with the customer and the requirements for expertise. From the point of view of the concept of consumer protection in the financial market, this element is crucial and fully corresponds to the Ministry of Finance's long-term efforts to apply a uniform approach to all insurance distributors in order to ensure the same level of consumer protection. I will now comment on the rules for dealing with the customer. The vast majority of the rules of the distributor's conduct on insurance with the customer, which are the content of the law, are determined by the wording of the directive on the distribution of insurance. In addition to the requirements of the directive, this regulation is supplemented in two ways: on the one hand, we take over the regulation of commissions and redemptions from the existing Insurance Intermediaries Act, which was created here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies as a compromise after a comprehensive debate in 2016. The content of this regulation is the obligation to refund the commission paid by the insurance undertaking to the insurance intermediary on early termination of the life insurance contract and the rules for the application of the insurance undertaking's life insurance provision costs to the customer on early termination of the insurance contract - that is, the regulation of the repurchase agreement. The second case where we supplement the rules of the domestic regulation directive is the obligation to provide the customer with relevant information concerning the cost of life insurance on a separate document in the form of a clear table. The aim is to provide the customer with brief, clear and understandable information before signing the contract on how much he will pay for the agreed insurance period, what of it will be used to cover the insurance undertaking's costs and what of the investment and what amount will be paid back on a zero assessment. The introduction of this obligation is a response to cases where customers were misled in the conclusion of investment and capital insurance and did not receive the correct information on what part of the premiums paid would be recovered in the event of the termination of the insurance. This is not a newly established information obligation, but it only standardizes the form of information that the customer has the right to receive now. Now a few words on the expertise of insurance distributors. In line with the adjustment applicable to consumer credit and the capital market, a new uniform standard of expertise, including its verification methods, is also applied. While the existing system of requirements for the expertise of insurance distributors is based on formal verification of theoretical knowledge from all insurance sectors, the new law, on the other hand, stresses the need for depth rather than the breadth of the necessary knowledge and also the related practical skills necessary for qualified negotiations with the customer. When entering the sector, each distributor will have to successfully pass a test to demonstrate its expertise, and it will have to further deepen its expertise through subsequent education. Finally, let me point out that the bill tabled is consistent with the balance and proportionality of regulation. I would like to support this hypothesis by referring both to the specific provisions of the law distinguishing the risks associated with insurance products intended for consumers on the one hand and to large companies on the other, as well as to the very long consultation process which led to the new regulation of the Ministry of Finance both with all representative representatives of the insurance market and with the Czech National Bank as supervisory authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-005-016.u3	Thank you. The rapporteur should speak now. But Prime Minister Bartošek reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-005-016.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I believe that this and the other points are linked, so I propose that we combine the debate on these two points and speed up the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-005-016.u5	Yes. Well, we can do that, of course. Now I'd like to have the rapporteur speak, and then we'll vote. Please the rapporteur - Mr Juříček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-005-016.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are indeed two House prints - 48 and 49, which are really related. It's a government bill on insurance and reinsurance distribution. As the Minister said, it replaces the applicable Act No. 38/2004 Coll., on Insurance, Intermediaries, Liquidators and Insurance Events. This is a draft of the Transposition Act, the 20116/97 Implementation Directive on insurance and reinsurance distribution, the so-called Insurance Distribution Directive, and some of the provisions of Directive 2009/138 on access to and pursuit of insurance and reinsurance activities. We are obliged to introduce this transposition directive by 23 February 2018, which is obvious that we cannot be able to do at this time. However, according to the agreement with the Prime Minister of the Budget Committee and the Minister, these two prints are not as important as the previous one, which we voted in the short reading, so I think we can do here by letting it pass by the second reading within the normal period. As far as content is concerned, the main objective is to strengthen consumer protection, because you know that brokers and insurance distributors have not always been fully in the picture. It is mainly the focus on professional care, information on insurance product, the responsibility of the distributor himself, the subject of supervision, legal sanctions, expertise, credibility and training. Those are the biggest targets of these two prints. It is clear that it is a necessary law which I recommend by this way that we release it for second reading. The Organizing Committee, which met on 4 January, proposed that the Guarantee Committee be, of course, a Budget Committee. I ask the House to release these two prints - 48 and 49 for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-01-25-ps2017-006-06-005-016.u7	Thank you. At this stage, I will vote on the merger of the debate on paragraphs 16 and 17, as President Bartošek has proposed. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is 76, registered 131, for 107, against no one. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask the Minister to give the following point.
