ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-020-034.u1	34. Proposal by Members of Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Pavel Kováčik, Zdeněk Ondráček and Leo Luzar for the issue of the Act on Substitute Nutrition and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts (Law on Replacement Maintenance) /Departmental Press 118/ - First Reading I ask a Member of Hana Aulická or Radka Maxová if they are interested in the final words of this press. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-020-034.u2	Then I can go first. Final words. I kind of expected this discussion to be longer, because it's another social benefit in quotes, but I think it's gonna be more up to the Social Committee plenary, which is a big deal. I will only respond to some of the speakers about their contributions. I was particularly interested in Mr. Dolínek. It could be solved, it could be solved. We have dealt with this thanks to Minister Pelikán in the past period, in some way we have made two amendments that are getting into practice. So I'm just asking how long social democracy has been in the Chamber of Deputies to deal with it, and who had the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the past period. On the other hand, I think, unlike Mr. Dolínek, that everyone is responsible for himself again. We're trying to appeal to people here about responsibility, our future pensions, about parental responsibility. And if, of course, I have a maintenance problem, I can't go to that office without taking certain steps that the current rule of law gives me to earn my maintenance. Only after two months of taking myself up and going to the employment office without any obligation to file a court order, to ask the executor. Those things are here. And if, of course, the parent takes certain steps, and our legal order gives him the opportunity to make a motion for a month's notice of nonpayment, then why doesn't the parent get it for free without this one task? Those are things I don't think our state should allow. Our state, as my colleague Adamová said, has 25 types of welfare. We have material distress, extraordinary immediate assistance and can be helped in some way. Let us discuss why unpaid maintenance accounts for income when it is not really there. Those are things that make life difficult for those parents. Furthermore, unfortunately, I have to respond to another colleague from social democracy, Mr Chvojka. Once again, he attacked the Minister of Justice Pelikán. But he was active on the issue of maintenance. You know there's an analysis of maintenance where certain legal steps are proposed. It hasn't been easy, it hasn't been here yet. Yes, the government put him in charge because it was pushing for backup maintenance, but we have some material here, we have experience from the European Union. I have an analysis from the European Union on the issue of maintenance. Then why didn't the Department of Labour and Social Affairs deal with it? And my colleague Chvojka is twisting my speech. I didn't say all 8,000 were prisoners. I was just saying that even prisoners can pay alimony, that there's 30 percent. Let's talk about 50, 60 percent of their paycheck. That's the way it is. And the fact that you guys put those 8 156 convicts in your explanatory report, that's just a fact I took from your report. But I didn't say they were all prisoners. So please pay attention. The final word, then. Yes, non-state non-profit organizations have a great deal of space on the issue of maintenance. There are several of them, doing a good service regarding legal counseling, helping to enforce maintenance, and counseling them on how to do what to do. When I started dealing with the maintenance issue, I often encountered the claim that they would come to the employment offices and actually the only thing they would advise them to do is go to the police, file a criminal report. My parents go in, file a criminal report, but no one can help him with the maintenance. And he waits and waits. So the information, let it be the Justice Department, let it be the Department of Labour, is not good. There are non-profit organizations here, which are often bailed out of the private budget, of course. It is therefore necessary to increase in particular...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-020-034.u3	I'd like to ask for more peace in the room. We're listening to the final word. I know the debate is long and it is late, but please let us pay attention to the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-020-034.u4	... raise awareness of the ways to proceed step by step when I am not paid maintenance, or possibly. Do some spots and say, "You can start dealing with it after a month of not paying." You don't have to wait four months for him not to pay you, you can start with one month's unpaid fee. Those are the things we lack in society. And believe it or not, each of us has a man in our immediate vicinity who doesn't pay maintenance. Maybe you don't know, maybe you know, but you're not doing anything about it. It's just a socially accepted fact that it's normal for us not to pay maintenance. I'm afraid so. Iříkat bohužel so. Let's be interested. It's not exactly easy for the parent who's not being paid. But let's support him and help him when we know how to do it. And I'm asking - when it appeals here from social democracy to the fact that enforcement, so what, so it's 10, maybe 20 percent - how different the state's approach to enforcement is and has a single person who is not paid when we have one rule of law and one legislation. It's something else to owe on social security, and it's something else to owe on maintenance. If, of course, you put it on the same level, if not higher, then let's talk about the fact that the enforcement might increase even by the state, but in any case there is one legislation, one state, and there are the same possibilities for enforcement. And Mrs. GajdůGajdůšková says: I bet with you that at the time of the law's validity it will be reversed, that it will not be 90 per cent of the payers and 10 per cent of the payers, but that it will be 90 per cent of the payers and 10 per cent of the payers only because they start to enforce the state. So I accept this bet. And if - if I say so - the backed-up maintenance passes through third reading, now that we have him on the committee, I will be very happy to bet with you, my colleague through Mr President. We'll just work out what it is. I say we fine-tune what, I'll say it at second reading or on the committee. So for me, as a final word, I do not support these proposals, so let the House deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-020-034.u5	I, too, thank you for the final word. Is Mrs Aulická interested in the final word or no longer? Now the final words for print number 34. [[Voices from the O.R.]] No, we have closed the debate, the final words are out of the debate, so we will take this step by step. In that case, I'd move on... [[Mr. Benda off the mike.]] Well, that's how I proceed. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková is to the second point, so she must wait until we have completed point 34. I have it in front of me, on paragraph 34, the plaintiff Hana Aulická Jírovcová and rapporteur Mrs Radka Maxová. So, please, Mrs Aulická, since we've already cleared this up to give her final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-020-034.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I'm glad we know who he is and who he belongs to. But let me really be short. And only in her final words did she really appeal again to us to release it, both of us, including our proposal, but also social democracy, to second reading, with the fact that we will be discussing the committees, perhaps long and stormy, but I think this is something that deserves it. And certain matters need to be clarified. But perhaps I would just like to say and respond a little bit more to my fellow rapporteur, by your means, Mr President. I mentioned that in my performance before. But maybe the rapporteur didn't notice it somehow. I am talking about why the stated maintenance counts and does not count. Let's do it again. At present, the employment authorities do not count on real income if you come to the employment office as a single parent or father and prove either that you are trying to enforce, that is, you have a criminal report, judicial and so on, I do not understand all these issues, or some of the employment offices just write an honest statement that you do not receive the required maintenance. So what I'm saying is that it doesn't count now if you have this approach. I am also impressed by this debate, unfortunately I have to say that I am a little sorry from some colleagues that we are complaining here that we are presenting nonsystemic things with colleagues from ČSSD, that it is wrong that the state is going to alter and so on. But what have we done, like everyone else, to make sure that it doesn't happen, so that within our society, it's perfectly normal to pay alimony to your children and have that responsibility? Have any of you submitted any other proposals to address this? No, I didn't. And let me say to the courts. Courts. If you file a criminal report, you'll put it in court, the courts will deal with it for two or more years. Does that seem completely normal to you at the moment? Yes, let us discuss at least those committees or in other spheres that we have a few instruments that do not quite work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-30-ps2017-013-06-020-034.u7	Thank you, too. That concludes the final words. I'll call everyone to the O.R. to vote. Before we get to him, I have some tickets here. I have here a note from Mrs Adamová from 17.45 to 19 o'clock for working reasons and from Mrs Levová from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. A motion for rejection was tabled in the debate, so if everyone is present... [[Voices from the O.R.]] Check out? Check out, okay. So I'm going to sign you off first, please, with your cards, and when our numbers are stable, we will vote to reject the motion. It is therefore a proposal by Members of Hana Aulická, Pavel Kováčik, Zdeněk Ondráček and Leo Luzar to issue the Act on supplementary maintenance, so that we all know which of these proposals we will now vote on. We've got a steady count. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against rejection? Thank you. In the vote number 156, 143 Members were enrolled, for they were 25, against 80. The motion to dismiss has not been accepted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. In that case, I am opening the vote on assigning the committee for discussion and asking who is in favour. Who's against it? There were 144 Members in the 157 vote, 143 in favour, against no one, i.e. the proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been assigned to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I have noted the proposal to order it as another committee of constitutional law. Does anyone else have any other proposal for the commandment of the next committee? It's not like that. Initiating vote 158. I ask who is for the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Who's against it? Voting number 158. 145 Members were registered, for 101, against 7. The motion was accepted. I have here a factual remark from Mr Jiránek, but I assume that is a mistake. Wrong. Okay. I note that the proposal was further ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as another committee. We've dealt with this point. I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. Opening point number
