ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, and Act No. 136/2011 Coll., on the circulation of banknotes and coins and on the amendment of Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, as amended, and repealing Act No. 76/1976 Coll., on Czechoslovak ducats /house print 46/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be introduced by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the Government's bill amending the law on the Czech National Bank and the Act on the circulation of banknotes and coins. As has already been said in the first reading, the aim of the proposed proposal is to add new powers to the law of the Czech National Bank to issue commemorative notes, commercial coins, so-called. Czech ducats. The Czech National Bank would like to use this power for the 100th anniversary of the Czechoslovak currency in 2019. Let me state that commemorative notes are issued by a number of emission banks, are a sought-after collector's item and an appropriate means of commemorating some particularly important anniversaries. The issue of commercial coins then represents the continuation of more than a century-long tradition of issuing commercial coins on our territory. Trade coins differ mainly from commemorative coins in that they are not legal money and have no nominal value because they are issued as one Czech ducat or a multiple of it. It can be expected that the issue of commercial coins will be welcomed mainly by the professional numismatic community and the wider public as an investment of its kind. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to add that the bill presented was prepared in the joint competence of the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 47/1 and 2. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets to take the floor, and that is Mr Jan Volný, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[Consulting off the microphone.]] Well, it hasn't happened to us yet, at least it's never happened to me before, because we don't have numbered points, so I've been talking about the press all along, so again and better. I'm sorry, everyone. I think I should correct the log now that we are discussing a government bill amending Law No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, and Act No. 136/2011 Coll., on the circulation of banknotes and coins and on the amendment of Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, repealing Act No. 76/1976 Coll., on the minting of Czechoslovak ducats, House print 46, second reading. At this second reading, the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets is Mr Jiří Dolejš, who was rightly prepared to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. So one more apology for everyone. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My role is basically very modest, because this bill, which allows the Czech National Bank to make the relevant issues mentioned by the Minister, is quite simple. We're all pretty much looking forward to those emissions. As far as the amendments are concerned, the Committee on Budgets has discussed everything and recommends that we continue without comment. I will then read in the detailed report the request to shorten the deadline so that we do not delay this simple material too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening up a general debate to which Mr Jiří Valenta is currently on the table, to whom I am giving the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to my amendment, which I have divided into two parts in this regard. First: In the second part of this present law, point 5 is inserted after point 4 of Article 2, which reads: The Czech Post is obliged to make the exchange in accordance with paragraph 2. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) up to 100 head of one denomination free of charge if banknotes and coins are sorted according to denominations. The second part of my amendment refers to the fact that, in Part Three, which is called the Amendment to the Postal Services Act, Article 3 is in Section 3 para. 1 of Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services and amending certain laws, inserts letter (g), which reads: the exchange service of commonly damaged domestic banknotes and coins for unharmed domestic banknotes and coins, if they are whole or if they are banknotes whose total area is greater than 50 per cent, which are whole or which consist of not more than two parts, which undoubtedly belong to each other. In case of doubt as to whether the individual parts of the banknote belong to each other, each part shall be assessed separately. Now, let me briefly justify this amendment. To that part of the first: Free exchange of more Czech valid coins for banknotes is quite significant today for citizens of the Czech Republic and it must be added that even a difficult problem to solve. The banks exchange coins, but often for a high fee. In this respect, I believe that it is necessary by law to establish a free alternative to such an exchange. Its smooth implementation is naturally offered in the state company Česká pošta, which now operates other types of financial services to citizens. Holding more coins must not be any punishment for citizens, because on the one hand, the admission trader does not have to remove a large number of coins, and on the other hand, if a citizen wants to resolve this situation by free exchange, it is not guaranteed by the State. As a result of the situation described, there is an inappropriate social imbalance between the valid coins and the valid banknotes of the Czech currency, which should at least be completely equal in receiving and issuing them, and at the same time the payment comfort of citizens is unacceptable. In the second part of my amendment, the legislation currently in force does not impose on the Czech Post Office, state enterprise, the obligation to exchange commonly damaged Czech banknotes and coins. This disproportion is not only permanently unacceptable but also illogical in terms of the development and continuous improvement of the portfolio of services provided by citizens. The missing type of basic service, the exchange of damaged Czech banknotes and coins, is handicaping citizens especially in small towns and municipalities where there are no relevant banking branches. It is a daily reality that hundreds of citizens encounter a damaged banknote, and at the same time there is an increase in the number of cases where the consumer receives it directly from an ATM - and it is not entirely guilty. In connection with the currently declared efforts of the Czech Post, the state enterprise, to extend the portfolio of services to citizens, it is the right moment to really implement these promises. Solving problems with the exchange of damaged currency would certainly contribute not only to strengthening the positive perception of the Czech Post by the public, but also confirmed the legitimacy of its privileged status as one of the supporting state enterprises satisfying the legitimate needs of citizens, and thus not to its perception just as another of the many sub-contractors of the commercial activities of private entities, which today is subject to strong public criticism. And, as I indicated at the outset, I certainly see a big problem in the fact that many banking institutions refuse to exchange commonly damaged notes, although it is their duty. Česká spořitelna received a fine of half a million from the Czech National Bank in 2016, ČSOB was fined CZK 300,000 in 2014, even for the problems she had at her branches, which are located in the Czech Post. For your information, around 80 million bills are being withdrawn each year, so that is a huge problem for citizens. Commonly damaged banknotes should be exchanged free of charge by the Czech National Bank and also by credit institutions performing cash operations, as I have already mentioned. But the Czech Post does not yet have this obligation, but it already has to accept torn, scraped, soiled banknotes or double-blind banknotes under the Act on the circulation of banknotes and coins. But he doesn't always do that. Know that since 2011 there have been complaints to the Czech National Bank that the Czech Post refuses to do this, and in 2013 inspectors of the Czech National Bank have also documented this fact, for example at post offices in Prague 1. For your information, ČSOB has 3,000 branches at the premises of the Czech Post. But in 2017, their contract ended, and I don't even know if this contract was extended in the future. This amendment should therefore guarantee the citizen a free exchange, even if, for example, the contract was not extended at some point in the future, i.e. that there would no longer be branches of banks at the premises of the Czech Post. I have already put forward other arguments to support this amendment at the beginning of my speech, and I believe that you will support this amendment of mine, because I can hardly imagine how it could help a citizen in any other way. And the problem, as I have indicated, is really great in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. Please, Mr. Ferjenčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u8	Thanks for the word. I would briefly like to comment on the amendment for the Pirates' club. I think the issue of exchange of notes and coins is of course important. However, I do not consider it happy to associate this issue with the issue of issuing commemorative banknotes by the Czech National Bank, and I am convinced that even a debate on the Committee on Budgets would look different if we were to address the real issue of exchanging banknotes with citizens at the post office and in banks and not the power of the Czech National Bank to issue commemorative notes. I think it's two things that aren't close enough to make sense to connect them into one thing at this point. For this reason, our club will not support the amendment, although we are definitely open to discussing how to improve the situation of citizens in the exchange of banknotes and coins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Plzák is reporting for the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one more intrusive question for the Minister. She probably contacted someone on the phone last time. My question is: This amendment gives the Czech National Bank permission to issue so-called. Czech ducats. Is there a mention of the possibility of issuing multiples of these ducats? Because it used to be common practice that they were issued by monoducats, two ducats, five ducats and ten ducats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. It's not like that. I conclude the general debate and ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur is interested in the final word after the general debate. They're not interested. There was no application for a refund. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Jiří Valenta, to whom I hereby give the floor, is hereby entered into a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u12	Thanks again for the word. I would briefly comment on my predecessor on the pirát side. I believe that the bill includes the possibility of amending the Act on the circulation of banknotes and coins, so I do not see why not to open this issue right now. That's quite an offer. The law is open, and according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to initiate any change through the amendment, so I do not see why we should not be able to accommodate citizens in this regard now, and by some alibi speech, continue to extend it sometime in the future, that is simply nonsense. That's my opinion. But let me make a brief application to my amendment, which you have in your electronic system as House Document No 363. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-02-27-ps2017-007-01-002-003.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Again, I ask the Minister or rapporteur whether they are interested in final words. It's not like that. Nor has there been any proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading. So that's how we dealt with this point, and I'm done reading the second draft. Thank you. And we're finally getting to the point.
