ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u1	8. Members of Václav Klaus, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /house print 61/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 61/1. I will ask the representatives of the appellants, Mr Václav Klaus, to take the position at the rapporteur's table. I will also ask that Mr Lukáš Bartoň take his place at the rapporteur's table. And when the House calms down and is sufficiently dignified in the middle to discuss the next item, I will give Mr Václav Klaus the floor immediately. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Let's break up the bunches. Please take your seats. Whoever wants to discuss something else, certainly very important, let him bring his discussion into the foyer. [[The O.R.'s down.]] Then Mr. Václav Klaus, as a representative of the plaintiffs, has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the President for the floor. Let me introduce you to this amendment of the law. It's 61. It's my first amendment to the law that I'm putting forward, so just like driving a driving school, I'd like to ask for a little patience and less honking and humming when I'm defending it. And then I'd end the bonmots and devote myself to the matter. Until 2003, we had no school law and our schools worked quite successfully. The principals gave their report cards, the kids went to school, etc. etc. After that, mostly one voice - I don't want to say who - was adopted by the school law. Now we have 300 pages, and every year, and each election period is increasing tens and dozens of pages, paragraphs and so on. This creates a huge bureaucracy for schools, because each paragraph creates a decree, a methodical instruction, etc. etc. and it hits people in the field. My goal is to remove a number of these things from the school law and a number of the news that came in the last term. This, what I'm going to introduce to you today, is one of them, and it's about kindergarten. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Czech kindergartens still enjoy...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u3	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask the House once again for peace. You know, the most complicated law-making is always about education, because each of us went to school, transport, because we walk at least on the road when we don't drive, so it's also complicated, and then health care, because we always have something missing somewhere. But that's why I think it's important to keep an eye on the plaintiff's speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u4	Thank you. I understand that. I've been standing in front of the department for 20 years, so I'm a little bit more sensitive than anybody else for this noise in my class. Sorry to interrupt. Czech kindergartens have always been one of the world's top schools and they still are. We have excellent methodology, tradition, equipment and highly educated and quality staff. I feel that the amendment that has passed in the past term will be able to hack this privilege, and that is why I submitted my own amendment, which repeals some parts of the school law. Specifically, there are three things. Firstly, it is an obligation for municipalities to accept two-year-olds into kindergartens and provide the same from kindergartens, that is one part. Secondly, the institution itself is a compulsory preschool institution for preschoolers. And thirdly, it's a free kindergarten thing in the last year of preschool education. I'm actually convinced, and I'm going to try to defend all three of these things, that they have a sense to cancel. I will not pretend that I have tried to talk to most of you, that political support is different. It's quite wide in two-year-olds, or at least that's how I feel. It's getting a little weaker at compulsory preschool. And the third part - there will certainly be amendments, which of course we will discuss. Personally, I'd like any part of this novel to pass. So the first thing is two-year-olds are compulsory in kindergartens. If we look at it in a logical way, I'll say one thing first. This novel doesn't tell anyone to take a child under three years of age to kindergarten because we have small towns where they have little children. Someone is two and three quarters, or two and a half, they go there for the morning two days a week. Great. This amendment kind of cancels the obligation that the municipalities have to make sure, the kindergarten has to accept it. When we look at it from a children's point of view, the position is clear here. All relevant children's psychologists, all experienced kindergarten teachers, doctors, will tell you that collective long-term education is suitable for mature children, for mature preschool children. At the end of my speech, I quote some of the capacities or opinions that support this. But each one of you who has a little child probably agrees with me that the children's interest is clear so that at a toddler's age he is ideally with his mother, with his grandmother, in some collective establishment only in the short term. So in terms of two-year-olds, it's obvious. From the point of view of kindergartens, let us note that this is preschool education. Kindergarten girls strongly reject this effort to implement two-year-olds there because the teachers didn't want to be babysitters. If they wanted to be babysitters, they'd be studying something else. They want to be teachers, they want to devote themselves to preschool education for children. When we throw one two-year-old into a group of four-five-year-olds, three, four, 90 percent of the teacher's energy will be directed at the little one that is still immature to be there, including all sanitary and social and other things. And the whole quality of preschool education of the Czech Republic will go to hell if I say it to the public. I wouldn't be afraid to use the word "age inclusion" on this matter. And then there's the third factor. They're communities. The municipalities have a duty to ensure this. By simple math, we can figure out that there can be an increase of up to a quarter of the funds that these municipalities would have to spend when instead of three to six-year-olds, they would have to take care of two to six-year-olds. That's not very complicated math. For a tens of thousands of cities, it means building a new kindergarten and so on. It's in the billions of crowns. Also, the Union of Cities and Communities and other institutions are fiercely defending and supporting this novel of mine. I will mention in this matter that the Czech Republic allows parents up to four years of age paid parental leave for a lot of money. I will mention in this matter for such European enthusiasts that only three European countries have mandatory places for children under three years of age in kindergarten. Only three. It's Denmark, Finland and Belgium. All others are three years old and above, or not guaranteed. So that's the part about two-year-olds. So, first of all, on behalf of those little crumbs that will be better with Mommy, on behalf of the kindergarten teacher, on behalf of the vast majority of the municipalities of the Czech Republic, I ask you to support this, release this to second reading, and abolish the obligation of such an ideological measure, which has been taken for some social reasons, and I do not know what other reasons, to throw some problem that exists, to teachers in kindergarten. That's the first part of the novel. The second part is compulsory kindergarten. Let's just say over 90 percent of the kids went to kindergarten anyway, probably all yours. So this adjustment, which was adopted, concerned a relatively slim number of children. There was more or less an extension of compulsory schooling by another year, which is not little. So it is from 5 to 15 years or more from 5 to 26 years due to mass higher education in the Czech Republic, which is the constant extension of the school system. The law was adopted in part at the time because of some pressure against discrimination blah-blah measures, which is true. A lot of kids from socially weaker families didn't go there, but she doesn't often go to school. She doesn't even go to that kindergarten now, even though she's mandatory. We've got a lot of cases where the famous assistant goes to school, writes it carefully, and the baby doesn't go there. So if we want to address the issue of minorities or socially weaker families, let us solve it, but not through school law. I don't think that's part of it. It's got victims, too. The victim is, first, another bureaucracy in kindergarten. Cards, organization of the day, Members deal with this. It just brings a lot of costs. And the benefit is a big question. We don't have any improvement in the quality of our first or fifth graders. Just like a better performance of the education system. It's purely a measure that forces people to do something without having a bigger plus. [[17.10 hours]] Let's say two types of parents who can be very annoying about it. First of all, let's say families of socially not strong people who live far from the center community somewhere beyond the forest. maminka's home alone, she's got a little two-year-old baby, and she's got this five-year-old, they've got a farm, or hell, I don't know. And daddy's driving the only car to work at 6:00 in the morning. This is a family where the children are normally at home and go to school at six, but according to this amendment, the lady must take both children and transport them to the central community to meet the child's mandatory pre-school attendance. Most of the time, there's a school bus, but he'll take them there and drive them back at 2:00, so then he wanders around the village with the two-year-old. There are cases like this. It's just people we complicate their lives with. Why? And then people, let's say, are socially strong again, who maybe travel, or I don't know... Karel Gott came to our school. So the idea that they would go when the little girl is five years old, somewhere abroad or on the mountain, and there they would spend nice moments before the baby goes to school - there are a lot of people who work, they're abroad, and you're actually gonna give them the necessity that there's a compulsory school since 5:00. You're gonna give them a year. It complicates their lives, complicates their family life, and the question is why. This does not increase the quality of education at the output we have. So that's the second part about compulsory kindergarten. The third part is paying. I don't want to - the ford's still a long way away, this support was the least I could do when I talked about it. But let's remember that we have free education, we're all on the same page, public schools for free, but we don't have free kindergartens, we don't have free preschool education. When it was introduced, I remember it well because I have four children, so the oldest one was only five and the girl was 3.5, so we stopped paying for Vojtíšek and Kačenka increased the fee by about 200 crowns. So the three-year-olds, the four-year-olds, or the municipalities will pay for it anyway, or you'll pay for it as taxpayers. There's nothing for free. It's a billion crowns in the system. The kindergarten could use them, etc. etc. So this is a matter of funding. So I'm just going to conclude with some supportive opinions. Firstly, I must mention: The proposed regulation - mine - is compatible with EU law. That's important. The Czech School Inspectorate's statement: The inclusion of two-year-olds in preschool education does not support the conditions in which most schools are located, the heterogeneous classes of kindergartens exhibit problematic material equipment that places high demands on both safety and quality of education of two-year-olds. Pedagogists are not and are not methodically prepared. Opinion of the Council of the City of Brno, Opinion of the Association of Towns and Municipalities supporting the opinion of the cities and municipalities of the Pilsen Region, petition of 15 thousand kindergarten teachers, etc. etc. I don't think I'm gonna keep you, since we're gonna beat each other's arguments and numbers in this discussion. A number of school associations. So, in short, it's a thing that deserves your attention, it's suitable for repair, it's suitable for simplifying the school system. I guess that's it for me to start with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u5	I thank Mr Václav Klaus and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Lukáš Bartona to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u6	Thank you for the floor. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, has actually dealt with three areas. The first is compulsory pre-school attendance, as has already been said. The second is the obligation of kindergartens to receive two-year-olds and the third is the remuneration for the provision of optional pre-school education. All these three points have aroused a great discussion. The Government has discussed this proposal and has taken a disagreeable position. While the first two points, i.e. the abolition of § 34, is the return to the original state, the remuneration for providing optional preschool education is the addition of something extra. That's all for me. I see that there are many people enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u7	Thank you, rapporteur, and I can therefore open a general debate. Mrs Tereza Hyťhová is the first to report. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation that has evolved in the area of administrative complexity following the introduction of the compulsory last year of pre-school education is absolutely unbearable. Previously, more than 90 percent of parents used nursery school services the last year before school. They used it comfortably as needed. Sometimes all five days a week, at other times they put children with their grandmother or they chose another family program. Today there is an administration between parents and kindergarten. Apologies are being dealt with and administrative duties have been added to the teaching staff. Of course, the importance of pre-school education cannot be questioned. However, it is evident from previous practice that a vast majority of parents are aware of this. In cases where a child is not mature at six years of primary school, there is now a system of preparatory classes at primary schools where they can catch up with this disability. For the reasons set out above, it is also clear that the introduction of the compulsory last year of the kindergarten was unnecessary and reduced the comfort of cooperation between parents and the kindergarten. The second problem is the introduction of mandatory, legal, obligations for kindergartens to receive children from two years of age. Here it must be said that I do not completely question this solution if it is considered by the founders of kindergartens on the basis of the low conditions and interest of parents. However, it is questionable to introduce this obligation by law, as it brings a fundamental change to the work of kindergarten schools. A two-year-old requires not pre-school education, but care. It is a group of children who will require large-scale construction and technical adaptations in kindergartens, separate equipment suitable for children from two years of age, and it will mean a change in staffing the work of kindergartens. There is a question as to why to impose this matter across the board and not leave it to the decision of the founders, especially the municipalities and cities, which are based on specific conditions. Otherwise, I also come from my own experience, since I taught in kindergarten and primary school myself, so I really know what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u9	Thank you, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Mr Martin Baxa will now take the floor, Mrs Majerová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u10	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, I would like to strongly support from this point the proposal for an amendment to the Education Act tabled by a group of ODS Members, which concerns, in particular, pre-school education. I'll start with the mandatory last year of kindergarten. That was an experiment that we expected failed, and now it's time to bring legal regulation back to normal. In particular, experience with the functioning of this adaptation shows that it has missed its objective. The introduction of this obligation only brought an unnecessary increase in administration to parents and kindergartens, which, of course, on the part of the kindergarten workers is at the expense of the pedagogical activity to be and is the basis and essence of the whole school system. Moreover, it is fundamentally unacceptable for a small part of children not to be prepared to enter school, in quotation marks all those children and their parents who, on the contrary, have no problem entering school are punished. Not to mention the freedom of choice of parents to decide how to preschool their children. Instead of effective individual assistance to children in need of special support in preparation for compulsory schooling, an area-based would-be solution was therefore chosen, which should be clearly abolished. And now I would like to comment on the obligation of kindergartens to receive two-year-olds. Of course, I understand that for some families and parents it may be a fundamental problem to combine child education and work, especially for economic reasons. No one's questioning that. In our view, however, this problem cannot be resolved rashly by cutting the legislator's pen, as the last amendment to the school law did. It is not possible to adopt laws in a way where we just wash our hands of the problem and no longer care about how the new standard will affect real life in our country, which unfortunately happened in this case. [[17.20 hours]] I would like to support my opinion as a Member elected for the Pilsen Region by the opinion of the Association of Cities and Municipalities of the Plzeň Region, which brings together nearly 190 municipalities of our region. The opinion of the authorities is clear in this regard. The municipalities support the abolition of the obligation because this change was not prepared. The previous government coalition did not think that kindergartens were not prepared for this change and municipalities could not logically adapt their facilities to the entry of two-year-olds who have logically different needs than older children. Moreover, the municipalities did not receive any extra resources from the state to solve this problem, and again new responsibilities are on the rise, without thinking in the Prague Parliament how it will be done in practice in all corners of our country. I would also like to stress the fact that I also consider the proposed solution ideal in the fact that, while abolishing the obligation of kindergartens to receive two-year-olds, the possibility of attending these children continues. I will therefore support the proposal, and I just want to appeal, so that we will soon address the issue of caring for two-year-olds and, for example, improve the conditions of children's groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u11	I thank Mr Max. And before I give the floor to Mrs Majerová, I will read the apologies received to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský and Mrs Margita Balaštíková, who have been apologizing since 18.15. I now ask Mrs Majerová to prepare Mr Jiří Mihola. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u12	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say something of my own personal experience to this change, which gives broad public attention. Over the past month, I have not been approached more often because of anything that is being discussed here, as it is because of the obligation to receive two-year-olds. During the past 14 days, I have met several teachers and principals of kindergartens and last week, who was MP, I have adopted a group of heads of kindergartens in Olomouc, which have asked me to interpret their position here, and I would add something in my own words. So in the Olomouc Region, the Moravian Preschool Education Association is here, and the opinion of this Moravian Preschool Education Association on changes to the School Act is that they ask for the preservation of the sentence in Section 34 para. 1 as amended by: "Pre-school education is organised for children between three and six years of age, but first for children from two years of age.' Furthermore, we propose that, if necessary, it is possible to create children groups as part of a contribution organization according to the needs and possibilities of the founder. The priority of this proposal is to maintain pre-school education for children from three years onwards and to provide for two-year-old care. We stress the difference between care and pre-school education. And now I would like to say something about it - this is their position, which I would like to say in my own words. After talking to them - and I really spoke not only to the heads of larger kindergartens, which are needed in Olomouc, but also to the kindergartens that are in the villages, and today I had a meeting with the principal of kindergarten here in Prague 2. So they're different devices that have different demands. However, they all agree - and anyone who understands a little child psychology really knows that the compatibility of two-year-olds with children who are to be educated in any way prior to school, whether it is the compatibility of the mentality of those children or their motor skills and possibilities, is simply impossible in those classes. And it's definitely not gonna solve any armpits. This is really about the fact that kindergartens are already facing very often problems in order to respect the standards of how they are equipped to really suit children in the range of three to six years. And we want to make it compulsory for kindergartens to receive two-year-olds who do not need preschool education - these children need care, but especially these children need care from those who are qualified to do so, that is, health professionals. Not the teacher's. We all know that children within three years create their own personality. Of course, within three years, the baby works at best from my point of view with the mother. I understand that a child must in some way... that there are cases where a mother has to go to work and needs to secure the child. However, it is completely incompatible that these children should be introduced into kindergartens only to comply with the number of compulsory preschools. As I mentioned earlier, the differences are not just mental and motor problems. Another problem is safety limits, different hygiene requirements. These children have completely different demands, different compositions of the diet, safety regime, problem with toys and general approach, noon rest. When we were talking about going out, you all know how kindergarten is set up at the moment. One teacher arrives at the morning, about seven o'clock - somewhere they have it earlier - about seven o'clock, when she will be replaced by a second teacher around noon. They're there for lunch together, and then the other teacher has an afternoon. And imagine that each teacher has 20 or more children. How could she even go out with those kids if she had two-year-olds? Before you put on a bunch of two-year-olds and then leave another, three to six, get dressed, you've got at least half an hour in a row. And after a few meters, you get tired of two-year-olds, and you have no one to confide them in because you're on your own. And the cases and the complications of why two-year-olds aren't supposed to be in kindergarten, there really is a lot more. Perhaps many of you have read a book by Fulghum All I had to know, I learned in kindergarten. [[Right: Everything I really need to know, I learned in kindergarten]] And so it is. Kindergarten is supposed to educate. So please let the kindergarten and the teachers give it to the children. Because then we're standing here before whether it's the priority of changing kindergarten or prepping the kids before they go to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u13	Thank you, Mrs Majerová. Mr. Jiří Mihola will now appear. Mr. Jan Bauer will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u14	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the duty to accept two-year-olds to kindergartens has come into school law not after a coalition agreement, as it might seem, because it refers here to the last term of office. It was through the amendment, and it might be interesting to see who actually supported it, that it had passed. I'm sure it wasn't the KDU-ČSL Club. All of its Members then voted against this amendment. It can be traced well. And time has given us the truth, as was actually heard from several of my previous speakers. Today, this measure is criticized in the first place - I stress - parents, who are most concerned, directors, kindergarten teachers, child psychologists and, of course, founders. [[17.30 hours]] Many of the principals and teachers of kindergartens came to my office, but also a number of mayors and deputy mayors who pointed out the problem very significantly. I have an authentic statement here not to share any of my impressions, or just what one has studied and listened to. So right from one of the last visits, when it was a group of five directors from Brno-venkov, because I'm a Brno MP, this authentic statement says that they already have experience, that it's not afraid of anything. We've had these kids for two years in kindergarten, and they're already pointing out these directors, and we're finding out in the classrooms how these kids restrict us. Kids need to get home, pee their pants. They need help in self-service activities. At that moment, the planned activity and dedication with the elder goes completely sideways. Small children can be attracted to a maximum of one short-term activity during the morning. The other kids are so distracted. Same with the food. Same thing when you're dressed. The walks were mentioned here. The kids are all tired, the two-year-olds before they get dressed. They won't miss the desired circuit. They often fall asleep on the teacher's shoulder. Teachers carry these children. If they want to go back to kindergarten on time, children are not taught to walk, they often pass. Teachers take it to health. The older children are being ripped off on the program menu. Nurses lack equipment for games of two-year-old children, room for movement, places for changing tables. These things often take place in the stairwell. Well, it's not the 21st century or kindergarten, I'm sure this is it. However, KDU-ČSL perceives that there is a reasonable demand for the possibility of placing two-year-olds in a facility that will take care of them, for whatever reason. For example, someone needs to pay a mortgage and simply rush to work or for other serious reasons. We can nostalgicly return to the nursery here, but let us remember that in the last parliamentary term we have passed the Children's Group Act. KDU-ČSL thus sees a helpful solution in the institutionalization of children's groups. These must be quality and accessible to everyone. Not just the ones who can do it. Again, I would like to stress that the solution is to financially support the nursery and children's groups, where according to development psychology, there will be a maximum of 15 children per group. They will have their pace, the offer of the right toys, the possibility of rest and games at their choice, changing desks, professional staff. This requires the support of several ministries, at least from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or the Ministry of Health. I am glad that I have noticed in recent weeks that this debate has already shifted significantly, because we know how difficult it is between the ministries, not just in the field of education. It is necessary to set up financial support for these facilities so that parents can tighten the fee and the child is satisfied. As a result, entitlement will be maintained for mothers with a two-year maternity leave that is real, and we will have somewhere to put children and the opportunity to build a career and support a family. Václav Klaus' proposal, if I have read it, does not solve this, although some colleagues here have reminded or emphasized the children's groups. On the contrary, he still has his second part, which he was already talking about. It talks about the abolition of the compulsory preschool year in kindergarten. This standard was adopted in the last parliamentary term and only applies from September 2017. I note that KDU-ČSL, through me, has enforced an alternative to school law in the form of home education. There is a possibility that is administratively undemanding, really undemanding. That's why we put her there as an option for those who simply refuse or feel tied up somehow. Finally, I would like to say that KDU-ČSL will support the abolition of the obligation of kindergartens to receive two-year-olds. Just as the biller claims that the law will not prevent those who voluntarily are able and willing to accept two-year-olds - that is, the kindergarten schools. However, the relevant offer must be children's groups, as I pointed out earlier. The cancellation of the compulsory preschool year will not be supported by the KDU-ČSL kindergarten. For one thing, we have promoted the possibility of home education and have not yet passed, or only a very short time has passed to evaluate the passed law. It's not my personal impression again, but it's after consulting a number of experts. And we all know that it is not good in Czech education to be constantly dominated by one hot and the other clean. Always change something, always accept it and then change it without any rational and thorough evaluation. The cancellation of the part concerning the compulsory preschool year in kindergarten can therefore be resolved by an amendment. And if there is no will for the petitioner, I am prepared to present my own amendment, which will only address the abolition of the obligation of kindergarten to receive two-year-olds. Here, I firmly believe that we will find a match across the political clubs across the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u15	I thank Mr Jiří Mihol for his speech. Mr Jan Bauer will now take the floor, Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u16	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, our colleagues are working on the issue of education and pre-school education in our parliamentary club. I already have children who have grown up to study in universities, but let me really say for a very short time, namely the part of this amendment to the school law that proposes to abolish compulsory pre-school attendance. On this subject, I would very much like to remind ourselves that we do not write laws for ourselves. We write them or prepare them for citizens of this country and in the case of school law they are laws for children, respectively. their families and teachers. That is why I think that the experience and opinions of those directly affected by the introduction of a compulsory preschool year in kindergarten should be heard here. I would therefore like to quote opinions from one of the many emails through which my parents turned to me asking for an initiative to end this experiment. It is specifically a letter from Daddy of four children, by the way also an excellent teacher in high school. And I would ask you to assess whether our predecessors have written an amendment to the school law for his family or whether they have written it against his family. And here I would like to quote: "From the experience of parents of four children and at the same time an educator with many years of education experience, I can confirm that children who are fully preschooled benefit at least as well as children who are cared for by preschool professionals," says the father concerned and goes on to say: "The state should support all kinds of parents who want to devote themselves to their preschool children individually. My wife has two preschool children at home, and from our point of view, it would be completely absurd for her to pay attention to the younger one and bring the older one every day to an expert caring for another 28 children. How can the environment of a kindergarten, where crying with children from mothers is commonplace, be equal to the care of one mother, who only separates her attention between two, three, four siblings elsewhere?" asks the father concerned, as well as an excellent teacher. The father also writes: "I also ask why the state orders a mandatory year in kindergarten to our son, who can read eight months before entering the first class, counts to 200, preferably in English, has a lot of friends and a beautiful relationship with his siblings. He can ask, thank, apologize, tie his shoelaces, play violin, draw, like sports etc. Is he the only preschooler who normally benefits?" the father concerned asks. Moreover, according to this father, the newly introduced obligation is in practice because they did not want to accept the individual education of his son in three kindergartens anyway, so that they would not lose money linked to a certain number of children. [[17.40 hours]] The most, and that is the conclusion, is that his last sentence inspires me to think: "If we want to be a tolerant society, let us tolerate the right of parents to motherhood and true motherhood, which should be a fundamental and state-supported model in the spirit of the tradition of Jan Amos Komenský. This education in the first six years of a child's life called a nursery school to emphasise the irreplaceability of a mother's role in preschool education." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think there is no need to deliver more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u17	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Mr Karel Rais will now appear, and Mrs Pekarová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u18	Hello, Mr President, dear colleagues. I would like to address my own amendment a little differently, which I have put into the system. When I look at what my colleague Klaus put there, he himself said that the amendment is divided into three parts, meaning two-year-olds, five-year-olds, and the bribery of education. I would like to focus on the very freeness, more precisely, because the parliamentary proposal abolishes the freeness of the education of children in kindergartens established by the State, the region, the municipality or the association of municipalities, from the beginning of the school year, which follows the day on which the child reaches the fifth year of age, to be precise. The proposal also addresses the freeness of education in the preparatory class of primary school. I believe that this poses a great risk precisely because of the possible reduction in the availability of pre-school education for children who need this training most. Gentlemen in the novel also say that this is actually a one-degree return before the law that is now in force. So just for the record, it's always been free. That's why I don't like it, especially this part. This proposal also runs counter to the mentioned strategy of education policy of the Czech Republic and is aimed against the priorities and objectives of the 2020 strategy and the attempt to eliminate some of the disadvantages brought about by children from socially disadvantaged environments, and is aimed at increasing their educational chances through qualified education. Perhaps it would also be worth discussing completely separately who and how would be raising unpaid money, which parents, especially socially weak ones, would essentially have to pay. That's the third part. To that first part, I believe that this is, of course, heading in the right direction, to strengthen the role of the director or the principal of kindergarten, so that she can receive children according to capacity, because no one from the House, from Prague, knows the situation of a specific kindergarten in Horní Dolní. That's what we talked about in the last House, when we basically wanted to increase the autonomy of decision makers, that is, a kindergarten teacher. I think that's where it's headed in the right direction. When I consider the government's opinion, the government's opinion, the question is whether to remake the school law whole, but we have a very specific thing here, so we're going to talk about specific things, not what would ever be needed in 2019 or later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u19	I thank Mr Karel Rais for his speech. Now, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Mrs Váchová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this proposal, on one part which concerns precisely the mandatory last year of pre-school education. There is no need to point out that the TOP 09 has already voted quite clearly against this in the last parliamentary term. We agree that this obligation should be abolished. This is, of course, linked to the freeness of such an education. I think it's pointless for parents to pay up to a certain age and not to have to at a certain age. That's certainly worthy of support. We're applying. It has also proved in practice that this obligation has not done much good, and it would have helped those to whom it should have helped to work with the whole family, because the problem is not coming from the child, but from a family that, in some ways, can neglect education or some of its basic functions. However, as far as the debate is concerned about placing two-year-olds in kindergartens, I think it is necessary to avoid a certain position that we will go from wall to wall and forget about families that are few in the Czech Republic, who would like to have some opportunity to place a child in some preschool facility, respectively. to a group that can take care of them. I would very much hate for us to actually develop the debate only in the direction that is from the point of view of the founders, from the point of view of municipalities and the directors of kindergartens, directors and teachers themselves, teachers - in this case they are perhaps 100% women. I would like to point out that, although I have also met many of them, they write to us and certainly to you, a whole range of emails and reactions, we get into our mailboxes, so I think that it is necessary not only to talk about A, some cancellation of an obligation that has not even begun to pay yet, but also about what B, which is, therefore, to those parents who would be denied such an option in the future, we are able to offer. Because you can spend your parental allowance today in a relatively short period of time, not even in two years, but before that, which was also adopted in the last parliamentary term, and the Jeselka facilities have been abolished virtually completely and we have children's groups, which can be established by law for four years, and can be established by both a community and, for example, a non-profit organisation or an employer, but their capacity is still very insufficient. In the Czech Republic we have about 600 such children's groups. Personally, I think it's a much better environment for such children, because there is more individual care, they are people who are qualified for this job, who take care of children, and the collective is much smaller, it has a maximum of 12 children in one group, which is really better than a kindergarten, where it can be up to 28, we can all agree on that. But the offer is still very inadequate. I think that we should also bring this into the debate - and because two different ministries are taking care of it, which must also be pointed out - how we are able to have a choice for families who want to have, which, for various reasons, may also be single mothers, etc., do not come out with a parental contribution, because really by notvalorizing for a long time, so at the same rate at a time of two years, let's say the single parent is no longer able to live with the child. The point is to allow such families, too, to have some choice, so that there really is a choice, and it is offered by the fact that, even if we are really going to end up getting canceled...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u21	I ask colleagues who have entered the hall to enter in peace and leave the one to whom the word has been given to lecture in a dignified atmosphere. Or you could stay in the foyer. Calm down, please! Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u22	Thank you. So to find a solution that will be viable. The current situation is that children's groups are financed largely by the fact that we have support from European funds, we have billions of crowns per year, which are used to support their creation and operation, because they really operate a children's group where you have two carers for 12 children, not just one majority, where claims are of course very high, is not cheap and for families if they should pay in full compensation, it is actually not available for a large part. And so if we end up with support from European funds, like that it will happen at some point, of course, at some point in time, so we're going to be dealing with a problem where we're actually going to finance this family support, if we're going to finance it from the state budget, which I think is probably one of the only possible options that's going to come to the table, or if we're going to leave it entirely to families, parents, and so we're all going to be sure that we're going to have the absolute majority of the funds that we're going to lose, and that's going to be the same question as what we're going to do for parents of such children. Of course it is a matter that is to be dealt with at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in particular. However, I am also interested in the position of the Minister of Education, because I think we should hear what the current situation is. I asked him for some information in the interview. I thank him for giving them to me, but I think for the rest of you, too, because the debate we see will certainly be long, so it would be worth it to have the facts to be able to judge how many of these capacities have actually been created because this law was adopted in this form in the last parliamentary term. What is the current situation, how much money is currently allocated to these projects or programmes in order to enable nursery school capacities to comply with the existing legislation in 2020. That's what I think we should hear here, first of all, to talk about all this information so we can have it. But unfortunately, the Minister isn't here right now, so I'm hoping he'll be back. Most of the discussion has been here so far, so I believe that it has prepared for us a basic penzum of information. If this draft law has fueled discussions about kindergarten schools here, I think we should also talk about the fact that one of the lowest aids in the OECD pre-school education in the Czech Republic is coming into effect. If we compare it with the other countries, we're probably just behind us now, and we're totally screwed. Perhaps we could take advantage of the fact that this amendment has been tabled in order to promote debate over other issues. I think they're intense in pre-school education. If only 28 children aren't in the same class, if we could also try to reduce them in this regard. We are also in this, I think, rather say rigid, but when compared to abroad, the classes are rather smaller and the trend is also in other levels of education, so that the collectives are rather smaller, because we integrate children with different needs etc. This, I think, is a certain contribution to the whole debate that we should also look at the problem from other perspectives, and above all, we should be able to introduce a number of other aspects to the debate. It is certainly not just about increased paperwork, which has been mentioned here a lot, which certainly brought such changes with it, but it is also about improving pre-school education in the Czech Republic, so that it is really not only available, but that it is really quality and that it works well both for those involved and for children. I would like - I think I will not take it - to be heard by the former Minister, who will certainly present her proposal - but if we were able to use the discussion to make it a viable solution for parents of children who want to make use of pre-school, virtually. some child's early care to find it, so we don't actually just interrupt one measure without a replacement. That would seem very unfortunate to me just because there are a number of families who need it or want to take advantage of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u23	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. I will ask my colleague Valachová to be patient because I have two factual points here - Mrs Melková and Mrs Staněk. First, Mrs Melková. Please, colleague, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, I have a need to comment on this point as a former teacher, a teacher at a kindergarten a long time ago, because I believe that a kindergarten is primarily an educational and not a watchdog, which would be the case for two-year-olds. I also think that two-year-olds - I don't think so, it's true - two-year-olds are toddlers, and they need a completely different kind of care than they would have in kindergarten right now. So a facility like a kindergarten is simply not suitable for two-year-olds. I will be glad to see the real amendment that the government is preparing to take this into account and to all satisfaction it will end successfully. That's all I wanted to say in a factual remark. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with the factual remark of Mr Antonín Staněk, then Mrs Valachová, duly applied for. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I don't know. I signed up with a factual remark in which I want to respond to two things. All our political parties, from the left to the right, from the center to the top, have the support of education in their electoral program. When we look at the benches, it doesn't seem like it. We are discussing an amendment to the Education Act, which concerns preschool education. The smallest ones that we all know here, how badly they need maternity care, mommy care, daddy care, and everyone - and the hall is empty. Thank you to those who are here. When I look at the pirát, mostly members of the ANO movement, social democracy, etc. However, whoever I miss the most and who left this House may be somewhere in the galleys, I don't know, is the Minister of Education. I believe, colleagues from the ODS, that, as in the past, when you were convinced that the key law should be attended by the relevant Resort Minister, you will also today support my proposal to interrupt the discussion of this point in the presence of the Minister of Education. I think it's nice to read it from the Stenoprotocol, his colleagues will read it to him, cross it out, cross it out for him, but I think there should be a dignified presence to discuss such a serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u27	This is a procedural proposal that I can vote on without debate. I merely point out that the Minister of Education is present in the House, not apologizing. On the contrary. He's here before I vote. [[The Minister of Education is coming to the hall.]] I can unsubscribe, ask for a new registration, but because the proposal is now unvoting, because the Minister of Education is present. However, my colleague Staněk insists on one more factual point. I'll give him my word. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u28	Thank you. I want to believe that the Minister will bear the full course of negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies, that he will not be far off again, because my proposal came not after a minute or five-minute absence of the Minister, but after a bit longer. I'll be glad the Minister will be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u29	Mr. Colleague, this is a request the Minister has made so far. Otherwise, I have no choice in the Rules of Procedure if there is another minister here to interrupt the meeting. We will continue with Mrs Valachová's speech. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the amendment tabled. In advance, I would like to very much appreciate the substantive and cultivated debate we are having and all the contributions that have been made here. I believe that this may be one of the first swallows that we all really want to pay close attention to the education system. First of all, I would just like to remind you of the circumstances under which the school law has provided guarantees for children under the age of three since 2020. This has become an amendment here in the Chamber of Deputies, and this has become the case in the enforcement of the then government proposal of ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, whose main reason was the guarantee of places for children five years, four years and three years, that is, to remove the negative practice that was then in a number of schools, that parents did not even have the certainty at the age of five that the kindergarten would have room for their children. I myself belong to a generation of those parents who also had personal experience with it, so I can confirm that this was indeed the case. Personally, I am glad that this guarantee of the past government coalition has been enforced, is functional, and, world, wonder why, at this moment, even the right-wing opposition, which was against it, does not attack it. For two years, children raised a heated debate not only here, but also in the Senate. You could say that some of the arguments that are falling here now were falling back then. So the question is why, as Minister of Education, Youth and Sports at the time, I finally gave my consent to this change here in the House and what led me to do so. It was two things, basically both very pragmatic. First thing. Even then, in 2016, 50,000 children under the age of three, that means two-year-olds, were in kindergarten schools. I note that this situation has been repeated since 2013 until now. That means half the population year of children under the age of three in kindergarten is. The second reason why I finally agreed to the amendment was that, in view of the falling demography of most regions in the Republic, of course, this does not concern Prague and Central Bohemia, more and more kindergartens were welcome to receive children under three years of age. For this reason, I considered that if we do not have a network of pre-school facilities for children under three years of age in the territory of the whole Republic, in fact, the children's groups were still in existence at that time, that is why I gave the consent. Why am I repeating this here or reminding you? On the one hand, because, of course, the Chamber of Deputies has changed and, on the other hand, because two things need to be divided in the debate we are having. For one thing, the situation is that at this point, 50,000 children of two-year-olds are in kindergarten schools, and to tell each other, in truth, what the conditions are at this point, and what they were, and secondly, what we can or cannot obtain from that guarantee since 2020. As for those children who are already going to kindergartens at the moment, that is, they are accepted, perhaps it is important to say in the case of children under the age of three that are not yet mentioned in the debate. It is not that directors or teachers today have the opportunity to choose whether or not to accept a two-year-old if there is spare capacity in kindergarten. It's really not like that. It is true that if capacity is available, the two-year-old must accept it today. Therefore, these children are also more and more in kindergartens, and that is why we also hear from the teachers' parties justified - I note justified - reservations about the conditions for children's education. If you are looking for where it is written in the law, this obviously follows from the relevant sections on the admission of children and from the fact that pre-school education, like any education, is the realization of the right to education and this must be exercised and implemented on equal terms. This means, if the capacity is available and the child is registered there for two years, there is no legal reason or possibility to reject such a child. With regard to the strategies that are now approved, it is important to say that both the education policy strategy by 2020 means Petr Fiala and Jiří Nantl from the workshop at the time - I note that I consider the Education Policy 2020 strategy to be a very successful one, and I think that this is one of the best strategies that has been developed for education policy - so she, too, envisages for the education system with the task of a significant strengthening - and now beware - early care. Early care. This is not something that would be born in the main person or here in the Chamber of Deputies. Second thing. The concept of family policy, which has been approved, is true, past government, but rather unanimously, so there is also a clear task that two-year-olds should be entitled or guaranteed to be admitted to kindergarten schools. So much for a summary of the fact that it is not a legislation that is somehow special or excessive or experimental or stemming from the head of one person in one amendment. Now the sour apple. Of course, what was said here on the speaker's desk, what you read from the point of view of information from the teachers and principals of kindergarten schools, that's all true. Indeed, the idea that today in the 28-member class at once, precisely given that more and more children of two-year-olds are getting into kindergarten because demography falls in most regions means that two-year-olds, based on today's school statistics, make the second most numerous group immediately after preschoolers, that is, we are changing the education system and the structure of children in kindergartens - so, of course, the idea that teachers and schools are ready for this is quite odd. That's right. The question is whether we will help them by canceling the guarantee of seats from 2020. I can say, and now I don't mean it any wrong towards the founders of kindergartens, towards the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, to the State, I don't mean it any harm, but the guarantee really works like a raised finger at this point in 2020: this is how it should be and you are all obliged to help prepare those conditions. If we cancel this rule, let's say the raised finger, the exclamation point, I'm not sure, and it leads me to a lot of experience just as the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports during the previous term of office, that someone will not only be interested in the conditions in kindergarten schools, but even to actively address them. I have significant doubts. It has been said here repeatedly on the speaker's desk, and I think that it has prevailed on this proposal - not abolishing the guarantee of two-year-olds' seats since 2020, but adjusting so that the teachers and directors can be sure that the organizational and personnel conditions will correspond to children under three years of age, involving children's groups that have expanded significantly over the past two years, although it still prevails that they are only in the territory of Prague and Central Bohemia majority, while ensuring that the founders of the community also have another way of guaranteeing children's seats under three years of age, for example through children's groups. [[18.10 hours]] Some colleagues mentioned that such a proposal already exists. We introduced him as a social democracy a few weeks ago and tried to actually consult his text and find support for him in the past weeks. Therefore, it is not officially submitted at this time, however, it is processed. And in short, it corresponds to what was said here from Zuzana Majerová's mouth or a colleague of Pekarová. This is essentially the guarantee of places for children under three years of age to ensure that the school receives children in 2020 up to the number of pre-school education organisations for children under three years of age laid down in the implementing regulation and the framework education programme, while adding that the municipality is required to ensure the conditions for pre-school education for children accepted in this way either by establishing a pre-school or by providing pre-school education in a kindergarten established by another municipality or by a group of municipalities, or by establishing a child group under a special law. This is what we think the proposal looks like, which we think is a positive solution to the situation that we have in the field. We think that this positive proposal does not close its eyes to how I say that 50,000 children under the age of three are already in kindergarten. Once again, I am the last person who would like to ignore the unsatisfactory conditions of kindergarten teachers. On the contrary, I would really like them to be sure that these conditions will be improved. Compulsory pre-school education - I wouldn't call it an experiment either. This is probably where I refer best to my colleague Karel Rais's contribution. I think he described it exactly here, including why it is not wise to cancel the freeness of the last year of preschool education. I believe that it is also appropriate for us in the nearest school budget for 2019 to try to reduce the number of children in classrooms for all kindergartens. And I agree with what colleague Pekarová mentioned. I would just point out that the Ministry of Education had already proposed this in January 2017, i.e. reduce the number to 20 children, i.e. It is 10 children per teacher, with the fact that where investment capacity is not satisfactory - I note that it frightened some municipalities and cities at the time that they are not ready for it - so where there are no capacities, it would mean that there will be no more classes, but one class of 28 children will be supplemented by the given number of part-time teachers who will be able to support the class. That's what I think we owe kindergartens, and I'd like it if we could fill it up. In the case of my colleague Bauer, I would just like to refer to the fact that pre-school education in the last year is not entirely compulsory, there is individual education, as he mentioned the example of the father, so that he would have such freedom of choice. And in the case of my colleague Mihola, I would like to call on him, as well as KDU-ČSL, to support the proposal for social democracy here for a positive solution, not to abolish the guarantee of places that, according to our court, do not solve anything. I would like to conclude by saying that I really appreciate the substance of the debate that we are having here. Thank you for your attention and I am very glad that we have left the rhetoric of the harmfulness of kindergarten schools for children under the age of three, or even of the rhetoric that divided the teacher or blamed the mothers who use the nursery school for the crime. I don't think that's the right way to do it. We should look for consensus between the teachers and mothers in order to improve the conditions in kindergartens and at the same time enable both mothers and fathers, of course, to use pre-school education in a way that ensures that their children are safe and that their interests are fulfilled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u31	děkovat you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I have two factual points by Mr Václav Klaus and Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u32	I would also like to appreciate the relevance of the debate to date. I think it's more common here than just this law. I would also like to congratulate you through my previous speaker for a very successful speech that... I very much appreciate the changes in opinions, as the nervousness and complaints of the kindergarten teacher are increasing, so actually the argument goes from another side, so it was inspiring for me. And I mean without irony. But there is one thing I would like to say, and I am responding a little bit to my colleague Pekarová. Let's remember, we're dealing with the school code. We don't deal with social issues, baby issues, moms of socially strong or weak. We're dealing with the education system. Preschool education, kindergartens, we deal with the quality of our kindergartens. That's what this law is about. Don't let those looks come from different sides. I'm not a dictator, I'm not stopping you from introducing children's group laws, about this, about that, I'm not gonna stop the minister from doing it. Do it, work it. But we're talking about specific things, nonsense in the school bill that we want to abolish. It's a merit thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Helena Válková's factual comment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I did not originally wish to speak, but only allow me such a tiny legal sigh. Perhaps you have noticed with my previous speaker, my dear colleague, through you, Mr Vice-President Valachová, that she has spoken: Look into the law. So I don't have to look into the law, but what she presented here is too extensive an interpretation of the obligation to accept children under three years of age to kindergarten. Coincidentally, my daughter-in-law, with whom I'm still at home, still has it on my plate that we approved in the last term, so personally, I'm sorry to admit, we're discussing and discussing. And I really think that legislative intervention is very appropriate. I will support this proposal, but with the reservation that Mr Rais has mentioned here, where we should get back to that in the relevant committees. And not all the points are what I would have imagined in the finals. But those too extensive interpretations going beyond the rules and derived from the basic principles, postulates and objectives of the educational education process, they do not seem to me to be the happiest in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u35	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková, for keeping time on the point of fact. And now we continue the debate with Mr Ferjenčík's speech. A colleague of Munzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I think the former Minister has quite precisely admitted that the law was supposed to be some kindergarten stick to set up schools to modify them for two-year-olds. And today, a few years after the law was passed, it turns out they didn't, despite the stick, do it. And they didn't really do it because they didn't get the money. And kindergartens don't even get any more money to run. So, really, we have a situation here where we've put it -- virtually. pirát do not, but parties in the last parliamentary term - responsibilities for kindergartens, which they and the municipalities that set them up cannot live up to, and, on the contrary, a significant deterioration in the situation may occur. I have to resist the use of the term "warranted" place for children from the age of two, because there really is no such guarantee and it is a huge confusion to the public. In fact, we are talking about the fact that children from the age of two who will fall will be admitted to those kindergartens preferably in front of children, e.g. four-year-olds who are not going to fall, but who will report there, which will lead to a reduction in the total capacity of kindergarten schools due to the setting of the existing rules, because for each two-year-old child, they will have to reduce the capacity of that kindergarten by one child because the maximum size of the class will be reduced. So we, if this clause comes into force, will reduce the capacity of the nursery school system across the board. Teachers who aren't ready for two-year-olds, and they don't have enough staff to take care of them, that's where they get the two-year-olds. Based on the advantage of children with permanent residence, they will have to take them there. And we're gonna point a finger at them. And I'm saying, but we have this whip to make things better over time, and this generation is just gonna suffer because the ministry didn't make it, and the municipalities didn't make it, and the parents are unlucky, and the kids are unlucky. [[18.20 hours]] So that's the situation. And it's not a guaranteed place, because if there's no place for two-year-olds in kindergartens, of course those kids won't be accepted there. This is just an obligation for kindergarten to first receive two-year-olds in front of four-year-olds. This is really what the existing law means, and in our opinion it creates more problems than it is trying to solve. If we want to solve this problem, the Ministry is to draw up a subsidy programme to expand the capacity of kindergarten schools and adapt them to be available to two-year-olds, and invest money in large numbers. The most important law in this matter is the state budget, which we must properly set up in the field of pre-school education. Kindergartens will need to strengthen staffing and, of course, they need huge investments that no one is financing to kindergartens in any of these areas at the moment. That's the basic problem. The second thing, of course, is whether it is really the best way to make it possible, for example. mothers who, for reasonable reasons, want to go to work when they have two-year-olds, if there's any way they can get into that job, that we're going to throw children into kindergarten. According to our club, institutional support for children's groups, which are now linked to money from the European Union, is a much more appropriate solution to this situation, and we should deal with the prospect that we will follow up on state or municipal budgets and will actually allow this to be financed systemically from public funds. We will certainly propose, at second reading, the accompanying resolution of the law, that the Government should deal with the issue of children's groups and actually address this problem, but the existing legislation, which is valid and has not yet started to work, really adds more problems. It's with the two-year-olds. I am against the fact that we would like to prevent mothers from returning to work, but the law simply, as proposed, does not have the institutional support that is needed for this measure, and we are unable to secure it during those two years. We just know that today. Some municipalities would need seven years to do this when they don't own plots to build a new kindergarten, for example. That's one part. The second part is compulsory pre-school education. There we should look at what the objective of the measure is. Why do we have mandatory pre-school attendance here? The alleged target was that we wanted children from socially excluded localities to go to kindergarten, where they would prepare for primary school attendance. Therefore, the measure was introduced. And we should ask ourselves whether this has happened, whether we have really increased the presence of children from these areas in kindergartens and whether we are actually achieving the declared goal, i.e. prepare children from excluded localities to get into elementary school. At least according to the experience of the kindergarten I visited, it doesn't happen. Now I've been in my district in Chrudim on purpose because of that kindergarten, and today the kindergarten gets out of town, or everyone in the district gets a list of children who have reached five years of age, and they're supposed to find out if they're already in kindergarten, or if they're going to be there for the preschool year, or how they are. For children who aren't there and aren't going to get in, the city's going to sign up, they have a legal obligation, blah, and they won't do it in a number of cases, especially from socially excluded locations, and nothing happens. What happens is that the principal has 20 children on her list who, if they come, are entitled to a place in that kindergarten, and she doesn't know if she's supposed to take children to the lower classes where parents report to her children, or whether she should wait to see if the kids show up or show up. So she waits as long as she can, then she starts accepting at the last minute those four-year-olds and three-year-olds, and sometimes it's gonna cause some administrative trouble when some kid happens to show up, but they don't usually show up. OSPOD, who is in charge of this, does not have the capacity to deal with it, and if those parents are forced to apply for individual education, then they apologize or they don't come there, so there's really nothing going on for a year, and then those kids really start elementary school, and the measure doesn't meet the promised goal at all. It's not happening at all. But what happens, on the other hand, is that parents who properly prepare their children to enter primary school are annoyed by having to go there must report the child to individual education. Children who really don't need to go there, that they are registered and permanently apologized and take up capacity, so this measure actually makes the situation of kindergarten capacity worse. So we strongly encourage pre-school children to be entitled to receive this priority, and we have absolutely nothing against it. However, we strongly oppose that the obligation to be there should be determined in the present way, where it is not really enforced and affects only those who, for example, are affected. properly educate their children at home. From that point of view, because there is no solution today, we find it more reasonable to abolish the obligation. The third thing is the payment, and there we think it's a reasonable measure to increase parents' motivation, for example, from those excluded localities, where some of the units of the percentages started to send children there to afford it, that is, the free last year of kindergarten. We do not object to this, and we will certainly support the abolition of free reading. So much opinion of the great majority of our club. We will definitely discuss detailed measures afterwards, we can talk about the adjustments, but let's talk about what is happening really, i.e. what really is the situation in those kindergartens, and not about what's written in the law, what somebody is unfortunately presenting here as some kindergarten that's nowhere near. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u37	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. I'll ask my colleague Munzar to be patient. First, three apologies from the meeting: Mr Jan Volný from 16.00 to the end of the meeting day, Minister Ťok also until the end of the meeting day and Mr Farský. I now have two factual points - Mrs Valachová and Mrs Černochová. First of all, Mrs Valachová, with a point of fact. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just really briefly to Mr Ferjenčík, by your means, and of course, I am very happy to refer the details to him. Investment. Of course, right after it was - even if it was an amendment and it was not submitted by the Ministry of Education and we didn't support it, I described exactly what situation the Ministry of Education was in at the time. Of course, immediately afterwards the agreement, and it is being continuously implemented, with the Union of Cities and the Association of Local Authorities, about how the school system should be, i.e. capacity addition, implemented. The Ministry of Education has a national programme to expand the capacity of nursery schools. On the contrary, the municipalities have forced his dissatisfaction with regard to the adoption of this amendment and continues. In this year's budget, we even increased CZK 350 million here in the Chamber of Deputies of Kindergarten. We have also adopted an accompanying resolution which obliges us to merge all the investment programmes of the given school system in order to make this effective. That's what's happening and that's what's happening. [[18.30 hours]] And as to where the most invested in the capacity of kindergarten schools, especially for children under the age of three, I draw attention to the IROP, which has already invested 2.5 billion in this way. Crowns. The second call for strengthening the capacity of kindergartens by municipalities and cities was criticised and the relocation of 5 billion is currently being negotiated. And all this has been done in writing, published, communicated. That means, I reject the fact that the municipalities have received nothing and have received nothing and have yet to receive nothing in the future. That's really not true. I would also like to say that the municipalities achieved an increase in RUD, which I supported, and I was also present at the Bureau of the Union of Cities when the decision was made. And I'm glad - sorry. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Just elevated RUD from 8,000. 14,000. Crowns. Unfortunately, I know exactly what is happening now within the municipal schedules and budgets. And I just want to say that this is also the amount that goes into capacity expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u39	With a point of fact, Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u40	Thank you. I originally wanted to respond to my colleague Ferjenčík, but I will also respond to Mrs Valachová through you, Mr Vice-President. Mrs. Valachová, he can take all the paper. You were in the position of Minister of Education in Prague 2, where we had some meetings with the principals of primary and kindergarten schools. You promised them both possible and impossible, you didn't do anything about it. Paper can take anything. Try asking any of the mayors how what you may have put on paper was reflected in the budgets of those communities. I'll tell you. Zero! On the contrary, we will have much more cost for equipment, for toys, for changing tables, for pots. Not to mention how this will be compensated in terms of wages for those teaching workers. About what my colleague Ferjenčík said. I would agree with him maybe with one exception. The subsidy program wouldn't solve it. Prague 2 operates a nursery. Maybe it's a communist treat for someone. It's just that there are families who want them. And the self-government, the enlightened self-government, is going to meet the parents of these children in exactly this way. And it meets all that it has to meet. Because, yes, that's where the nurses take care of the kids, they're all of the same age, and you don't break up a group of children in kindergarten. So it's really more of an appeal to the Union of Towns and Towns to give incentives for mayors to build a manger. We're building a second nursery on two because the first ones have insufficient capacity. So there really is a solution. A solution that won't interfere with the system that won't be exactly as my previous speakers said - [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Then I'll apply in response to another one of my colleagues, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u41	Yes, thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Kupka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u42	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I must respond in turn to what has been said. Because it is true that there are now more funding to expand the capacity of kindergartens, especially in the vicinity of large cities, but I guarantee you that it is only very difficult to cover so that preschool children, four-year-olds and three-year-olds can attend those kindergartens. The children of the two-year-olds in the Central Bohemia region where you ran, and in a number of other places, they just can't be talked about. [[to Ms Valachi]] We now have a major deficit for the usual age of children in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u43	Another factual point, Mr Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u44	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to point out that the obligation will bring considerable investment in reducing the capacity of kindergarten schools. For example, the changing desks. The moment the kindergarten doesn't have enough kids to open up a new class that she would build for the money of the community, those two-year-olds, and she's taking those two-year-olds into the existing group of kids, so two-year-olds are mixing into some number of that class, so they have to have that changing table that they often have nowhere to put, in those bathrooms, so they're gonna have to build new bathrooms for that. And in combination with the fact that they are only a small kindergarten that only receive a limited number of children, so their capacity is decreasing, which also reduces their teacher's salaries, because today they are tied up to the maximum amount of funding for a pupil, so they are actually going to drop their income on the salaries of teachers, and at the same time they are going to incur investment costs to prepare their space for children from the age of two, regardless of whether or not they get in there, which is the most bizarre.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u45	With factual remarks, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Černochová, Gajdůšková and Mrs Adámková are registered in the following order. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová has the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me respond to the debate that is going on here. I'm logged in, but I don't think it's gonna be for much longer today. Anyway, I have to respond to my colleague Valachová through you. We've been talking about numbers here that today younger children under three are in kindergarten really and normally. But I think it's important to say what kind of children they are. And I have to say that there is a big difference between two-year-olds who have two or three months to complete three years of age or children aged two and a maximum of two and a half years. Because, in general, I have to say that kindergartens are an educational institute and two-year-olds cannot be really educated! That's a fact, and that's something that my colleague Valachová has to realize. And I'm a delighted colleague from ODS, because we have three crèches in Most. Capacity 54 seats. Permanently occupied, of course the requests are much more. Cribs are an institute that was, of course, before 1989, but I don't think we should be ashamed of that right now. On the contrary, I think that the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Education should think deeply about the fact that the institute should be supported primarily financially, and that it should once again consider that a nursery as an alternative to babysitting around two years before entering preschool education is one of the best options. And as for children's groups, don't be mad at me, but children's groups really under three years of age, so that children can get back into preschool education, which I think is one of the best alternatives for those children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u47	Thank you. A real comment by Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u48	Thank you for the floor. This debate clearly shows that what I called for in my contribution would be really good. And since the Minister wasn't here at the time, I'm going to repeat it because it was directed to him. Minister, I think it would be advisable for you to also speak with the facts that are often the subject of discussion here, but they are not actually spoken out and missing, in their nature, about what the Ministry has already done for this measure, what are the funds that have already been allocated, what are planned, etc., so that we really do not talk about housenumers here, but about individual real amounts. I think we're missing it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u49	Mrs Černochová has withdrawn her factual point. Another factual point by Mrs Gajdůšková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u50	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, just very quickly indeed. I must say that I am a fan of Prague 2, and through the President, Mrs Černochová, that Prague 2 has a nursery and is building a nursery because I remember well that unfortunately the nursery has been abolished for ideological reasons by the government of Václav Klaus as an outliving with the idea that mothers should be at home, preferably until the school. [[shows to the right side of the hall]] Today, a debate about two-year-olds in kindergartens is nothing more than a result of dealing with this situation that we have come to. I would really like us not to forget this and to think about how to deal with it maybe a little differently. Otherwise, I am ready to speak in a proper debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u51	Mrs Adámková, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to see a doctor. I'm a little appalled that we're talking about two-year-olds here, like they're not tiny little people, their families. Of course, if the child is mature, there is no problem, if there is a possibility, to place it anywhere else. Otherwise, of course, the nursery and kindergarten cannot be confused. The nursery belongs to the paramedics, there are nurses who know the needs of the child. At the age of two, many children have diapers. They don't know everything. While kindergarten is really educational. And surely it is possible to approach them individually afterwards. So I think that the law - two-year-olds to kindergarten - contradicts everything, including the ethical codes we have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u53	With a point of fact, now Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must stand up for the government of Václav Klaus. The church didn't disturb Václav Klaus' government. It was more or less the will of the authorities. It was transformed from the Department of Health, I suspect, under which the manger had previously fallen. And that philosophical approach to centralize or decentralize, so each and every one of us with Mrs Gajdůškovášková through the Vice-President seems to be different, because I take this because it is not my duty to take care of them by the state, to set them up by the state, but to set them up by the exact self-government, or by the regions that will provide part of the funds, part of the nursery is paid, the parents pay some contribution, and, of course, to a large extent, the respective self-government is involved. I think it's perfectly fine the way it's set, and I would be against having to set up a nursery state, because then we would really get into the same situation as we are here today discussing those two-year-olds in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u55	With a factual remark, Václav Klaus, Mr. Speaker, is now logged in. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u56	I can see we're not gonna make it tonight. We're already spinning in circles here. Well, I'll lighten it up. When the other Members have to address themselves through the President, I would ask Mrs Gajdůšková, when she talks about the Government of Václav Klaus, not to point at me. Only, if necessary, through Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u57	Mr Staněk's point of view follows. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I may have misheard, too, or my colleague certainly did not mean that municipalities and cities should establish a nursery and subsidize them in some way. What else should we do as a community? What else should we subsidize as a community? I think it is in the interest of the state to create conditions for parents who need to put their child in a facility, whether established by the Ministry of Health or preschool. I am convinced that the actual abolition of the crèche system created a problem that we are dealing with today and which we were actually dealing with today with the pre-school law. So it's a good thing we're talking about it. Oh, please, everything can't be done by the community. We don't have bottomless pockets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u59	A real comment by Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My colleague, the previous speaker, clearly misunderstood by you through my performance. I have responded to the fact that I think it would be wrong for the Czech Republic to set up a nursery state, so that it would be a compulsory institution. And if some village simply wants to set up a nursery and wants them to be operated as in Prague 2 under the center of social services, which is a medical facility, why not? No obligation. But let the self-government that best knows demographic developments in its community decide this facultyly. If it's just a village where the population is older, older, I'm building walkers. And I don't expect him to build them either. If there's a generation younger and I want to keep it in the village, I'm building kindergartens, schools, nursery, children's playgrounds. I am in communal politics, my colleague, through you, for the 20th year. And believe me, I won three elections in Prague 2 and twice I was vice mayor, eight years old. So I think I know something about community policy. I don't know how long you've been in communal politics. But I know something about community policy. And Prague 2 is exceptional precisely by caring for people of different generations, that young families did not leave this village to satellites, but that they remained alive and living on two because they have those services preserved. It is also preserved by seniors who actually have all the services under our social services centre. And I take it it's the mayor's duty, not to stand with open arms, what the state will give me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u61	Now will be followed by a performance with the priority right of Minister Plaga. Before he comes to the speaker's desk, I'll introduce you to my apologies. From 18.40 until the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mr Špičák apologizes and Minister of Culture Ilja Šmíd apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been called upon to do so, so I will comment on the proposal that lies here. Anyway, to begin with, yes, and I can go directly, so Mr Staňek, yes, I was gone for 13 minutes, not five, as you said, for which I apologize once again. And now for the actual material. As for two-year-olds in kindergartens, individual speakers said that 50,000 two-year-olds already go to kindergartens today. I would use the term "non-three-year-olds," because they're children, which, of course, to 1. 9. they don't have three years, but those three-year-olds usually happen during that year. This means confirming that there is a difference, and I think we all perceive it whether the claim will be for two-year-old each, or whether there will remain an option for the child who is mature, and this will be assessed by the headmaster of the given school, respectively. kindergarten, if she can attend that kindergarten. Yes, 45,000 non-three - year - old children have also joined and attended kindergarten. Anyway, if there was a question about what would have caused this global obligation in 2020, if we were to add a population year to about 100,000 children, so if we were to create capacity for another 40,000 children or for everyone, as the obligation is flat, then I can only say on hard data, from the challenges that we put to build places in kindergarten, the average price came out, someone had reconstructed, someone had built, the average price came out in one place to 283 thousand crowns. If you multiply between 40,000 and 60,000 places created by CZK 283,000, you have a lower estimate of investment intensity in the region. Yes, they are billions of crowns high. If you count 40,000 times 283, we're over ten billion. [[18.50 hours]] In this case it is appropriate to add that the investment programme, which was to be accompanied and accompanied, the Ministry of Education writes, but for this year there are 300 million crowns. This means, even with the participation of the municipalities, we will be able to saturate or we will only be able to saturate a certain percentage. It hasn't been much better in years before. So there's definitely no need for that investment at this time, and it hasn't been what it would have been in recent years. From my point of view - and I gave a neutral opinion on the government for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. As far as the two-year-olds are concerned, I believe that the general obligation is, of course, not the right instrument. It makes sense and I believe that the founder, as has also fallen here, knows that he has a lot of young families in the village, so his priority will be to complete those capacities. And as I said before, the current wording of the law allows him to take it under three years of age, but with regard to the maturity of the child and also the capacity. As for the other - or perhaps one more comment. Of course, the debate, and she opened up here today, needs to be conducted over the reconciliation of professional and family life. But once again, I don't think that a total obligation for municipalities to build capacity, and then - I'm going to overdo it - to wait for the kids to get there in the estimated number or not, is probably not an optimal solution. As far as mandatory last year of pre-school education is concerned, yes, let us discuss it, but I would like to make one factual point. And that's-- we introduced it to 1. 9. 2017. And we're in April 2018 and we already know it's not working and we're supposed to cancel. So I'd like us to postpone the debate and really talk about the dates from the first and second years, and then let's just go back to the debate if we find out that it doesn't work at all in practice. Third part. My position, that means the one that cancels child education in kindergarten, so here's all I want to say. Throughout the period of effectiveness of the school law, education in the last year of the kindergarten was always provided free of charge by the State, the county, the municipality or the union of municipalities and the preparatory class of the primary school. So in this part, I'm just pointing out that the motion put forward doesn't bring it back to its original state, but somewhere else where it hasn't even been in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u63	Thank you, Minister. Mr Munzar, to whom I will now give the floor, is entered in the general debate. I would remind you otherwise that today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be concluded at 7:00 p.m. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the patience of the rose brings, and after that many factual remarks at the end of the day, I also get the floor. Thank you for that. I'd like to talk about something other than what was here - or I'd like to talk about this bill, but from a different point of view. We here, in this magnificent Chamber of Deputies, have the opportunity to have a very significant influence on people's lives and to set the direction in which the Czech society will evolve and shift. And similar laws affecting our children, the functioning of families and everyday lives are based on the values on which our society is built. And we have to ask ourselves a question, and I was asking myself, when the school law that we now want to change came into force in the last parliamentary term. So the question is, what's more - state or family? And who owns the kids? State or family? In traditional societies like ours, family is the foundation of society. There is the greatest trust, love, help, support and formation of children. Freedom is free to decide that in the family. Parents may know best what is best for their children, and they want to give their children the best. And the state is supposed to create conditions for them, not make them compulsory for the last year of kindergarten. When single decisions are not supported, it is the opposite. Children are to be institutionalized as soon as possible and included in the right boxes and schematics. This is the last mandatory year of kindergarten for me. Today, a traditional family is under constant attacks, mostly justified by the fact that some families do not work. Minority problems are thus solved by a directive and often by bullying for most. A compulsory kindergarten came under similar cloak and some children were not ready for kindergarten, so the last year of kindergarten was introduced mandatory for everyone. But how does a mother with two children come to this step, for example, with one preschooler and one toddler who has to travel with a small child every day across the city, to another village? Clearly, social engineers are not interested in these cases. I propose individual plans and apologies. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I would ask Mr President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u65	Yes, you're right, Mr. Ambassador. I ask the gentlemen of the Member for peace, to create conditions for us to also listen to Mr Munzar's speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u66	Thank you. So you can understand me. I myself have two children, a schoolboy and a preschooler. Because the preschooler likes to go to kindergarten, we'd put him in kindergarten the same way most parents do. But the point is, it would be our decision, not the state's decision about our child. School attendance as a basis of education is without discussion. Although I wonder why we only needed eight years of primary school and in the meantime joined ninth grade. But kindergarten? Will children learn to draw better, cut out, sing better and so on? The previous administration of the Ministry - this is important - has enforced a law that purposefully pulls children out of the family environment. You want to be home with your five-year-old? You can't, according to the former head of the ministry. You want to put the baby in kindergarten by the age of two? The kindergartens must satisfy you regardless of their capacity, personnel equipment and whatever the fact that the system is not at all ready for this. Each of us who has a child knows that every child is different. Some could fit in with three-year-olds at two, but for some, it would be traumatic. And the trauma will be especially for the kindergarten teachers, who will then be all over the unfortunate child, feeding him, changing him, and there will be no time for the other children. For two-year-olds, we need otherwise trained staff, other kindergarten equipment, different access. The state threw this duty at the municipalities without any preparation for a change of such a system. The problem is not solved by writing it into the law and someone else, in this case the community, will take care of it. The state is supposed to choose another method. To support the emergence of pre-school facilities for two-year-olds, it is intended to set the incentive conditions for municipalities, or even the private sector, to ensure this naturally. I support my colleague Klaus' proposal as a parent who wants to decide on his own children, I do not want the state to decide for me and as a parent who wants kindergartens to provide quality services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It's 18.57, I'm interrupting this point. I am not finished with today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies because Vice-President Pikal wants to speak with organizational information. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u68	Thank you for this opportunity. Thank you all for giving me a little more attention. As the youngest, I was given the task of chairing a subcommittee for the award of state honours, respectively for their consideration. At this point, we have some suggestions. However, I would like to point out to all of you that the proposals need to be taken as theirs by the 13th of this month, which is, in three days, or possibly to submit their own proposals. So that you don't have to deal with it in some way at a later stage, because it is appropriate to prepare various matters for these proposals, such as the commendation it should be for and so on. So the suggestions are at your disposal. If you contact members of your club who are members of the subcommittee, they will provide you with more detailed information or contact the secretary of the subcommittee. And please consider whether you want to make any suggestions or not. Otherwise, at this point, I think two are being supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-10-ps2017-012-01-008-008.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am now ending today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, 11. Four, nine o'clock. We will continue with the interrupted point and other points according to the approved program. Have a good evening.
