ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-011-038.u1	38. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the law on the processing of personal data /house print 139/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 It is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law in the first reading, i.e. in accordance with § 90 para. 2. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Interior Minister Lubomír Metnar. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-011-038.u2	Thank you again, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal was drafted by the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with a number of ministries, in particular with the ministries of transport, justice, finance. This proposal also completes the task taken over by the last government. While the Personal Data Processing Act provides for general derogations from the General Data Protection Regulation and further clarification, partial and targeted derogations from GDPR under specific regulations are implemented in the amending act. This achieves greater legal certainty and more balanced protection of personal data. This is true of most amended laws. The amendment law also contains amendments implementing those parts of the Directive on the protection of personal data in criminal matters which cannot be dealt with jointly for all competent authorities, in particular because their nature, tasks, structure or procedures differ. This concerns, in particular, the amendment to the law on security and criminal law. Last but not least, the amendment law implements a European directive on the use of Air Passenger Name Record data under PNR in order to combat terrorism into the law on police and civil aviation. I would also like to ask, on behalf of the Government, on this proposal, as in the previous point, for the approval of the procedure under Section 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, that is to say, to give consent to the draft law at first reading, because the General Data Protection Regulation, as has already been said here several times, will come into effect on 25 May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-011-038.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please let the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-011-038.u4	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, once again I will do the same as I did last time, first I am acting as Vice-President of the Club of Deputies for a President who is not present here, and I say that on behalf of the same clubs, i.e. STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, Pirates, ODS and Social Democracy, we veto negotiations under § 90. It makes no sense at all for us to discuss this in a more rapid mode than the previous one. And after I've finished my speech as vice president of the club, I'd like to go to the newsroom, if you don't mind. [[15.30 hours]] If the main law was a little complicated and slightly incomprehensible, then what the Ministry of the Interior is presenting to us as the so-called. the implementation - and again it is not the Minister's fault, I know that it is more in legislation and others - that is completely incomprehensible. I've really read some of the laws in my life. But the degree of chaoticness of this press is unprecedented. It is by far not just a projection of matters directly arising from the protection of personal data in other prints. [[Laws]] All the resorts tried to smuggle in a solution to other problems. And they didn't even succeed at times, but it wasn't rejected anymore. For example, on page 82 of the explanatory memorandum, the proposal for a police law, the proposal for an amendment to the Police Act, also specifies the current issue of declaring a person living in a common household in cases of domestic violence, even with regard to the right of a child living in such a household. The same thing on the same side - the bill also amends the Act on the General Inspection of Security Corps, and should now have some powers similar to those of the police. The problem is that this is in the explanatory memorandum, but it's no longer in the text of the law, because it fell out during the government hearing, it was translated into the special part of the explanatory memorandum, but it was no longer translated into the explanatory memorandum itself. Likewise, there is a great deal of disorder, and this, of course, will have to be technically dealt with in the constitutional law committee, that the government is beginning to renumber the provisions of the existing law in its proposals. Then it seems that when you go through the text presented that in some laws - for example, in the prison service law, but also in others - there are new paragraphs, and only when you read it and study it, do you realize that they did not arise, that their numbers have only changed, and that is why they are there again. I consider this to be very unfortunate from the point of view of the decision-making of the courts, which, of course, in the caselaw, refer to the settled number of the paragraph, and if this is happening to me over time, there are major problems. And I think that the Government's Legislative Council should leave this mess and that it really should remain the same. Those are the technical reservations I have. Now a few substantive reservations that I would like to mention. The first and perhaps most important question for me is why, in those exceptions that are laid down for individual types of personal data processing, the public administration and for some possibility of public administration retain the data and the data that are called into question, why two different wordings are chosen. I understand that when I collect pensions, health insurance, taxes, a lot of other things, so that, of course, it is not possible to apply all the rules that otherwise apply to the collection of personal data, it is not possible for me to propose any adjustment to them, it is not possible to be forgotten and other things. However, for example, on page 6, the amendment to the Act on the Organisation and Implementation of Social Security chooses the wording that if personal data are contested, letter (a) - § 13 para. The processing of personal data shall also be subject to the processing of such personal data without the consent of the data subjects, in accordance with point (a) of Article 2 - shall identify, in an appropriate manner, personal data the accuracy of which has been denied or objected to, and shall also be processed without the consent of the data subjects. And that's the formulation in social security. This formulation is then in several other paragraphs. But to my surprise, the wording on page 14 in Part 7, the amendment of the Construction Savings Act and the State Support of Building Saving, is suddenly a formulation: the Ministry does not need to limit their processing in case the data subject denies their accuracy or objects to this processing. It is absolutely unclear to me why different wordings are chosen in the state administration of data which must continue to be administered or what the different wording is, and the explanatory report does not explain what the different wording is meant to mean in the real world. Another objection here has already been partially raised by Mrs Valachová. It relates to Part 8 of the Amendment to the Constitutional Court Act, where for less understandable reasons the Office for Personal Data Protection should suddenly become a place to which the Constitutional Court is obliged to refer with a request for expression in matters relating to the protection of personal data. We consider it incomprehensible. There's no reason for that to happen. Furthermore, I have already referred to the general law, but this is, of course, thoroughly interpreted, the issue of the prosecutor's office and whether we are going to pretend that it is a judicial authority or an authority that is subject to the normal supervision of the Office for Personal Data Protection. I would, of course, be inclined to the second option. I don't think the D.A. should control itself. However, in addition to raising this doubt, I raise even more fundamental doubts as regards Section 12k of the Public Prosecutor's Act, where it is suddenly permitted to admit that the state prosecutor manages everything itself, that even the Office for Personal Data Protection does not have the right of supervision, so suddenly § 12k admits that, on the basis of a written agreement of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry, the office of the Data Protection Officer can perform the duties of the Ministry's Data Protection Officer. So either we're trying to keep it strictly separate, but the idea that the attorney at the Ministry of Justice simultaneously executes me in charge of the state's attorney's office, and then, of course, it's there again, the same thing, translated into the police; On the contrary, I would consider this to be a very unfortunate and completely backward direction, and only such an effort at all costs to project the European directive in vain. So these are probably... I think I can only point out the other more fundamental issues affecting the law in the committee's part-session. But one more thing that I was interested in there, which I didn't understand at all, and I'm not even sure if it was a major mistake - the Act on the General Inspection of Security Corps, Part 26, page 54 admits that the General Inspection of Security Corps will erase some data under which circumstances it will not erase them, and then suddenly says: before the inspection is erased, it will pass personal data to the Police of the Czech Republic, unless it endangers the performance of the inspection tasks. I absolutely don't understand why it got there. What's that supposed to mean? Why should the inspection that controls the police suddenly pass on some personal data they were holding to the police the moment she herself is supposed to erase them? Again, the reasoned report does not make it clear enough that I am able to discern what was meant by it. But I saw it as a problem. Rather, I am trying to show, unfortunately, that some things in the implementing law go beyond GDPR implementation, beyond the implementation of the law that we discussed as the last point, and that we will have to deal with where the ministries and their transport legislation have attempted to smuggle in some small mines that are intended to go somewhere other than to protect personal data. I thank you for your attention and recommend that the bill be given to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee, and I would almost be inclined to order all the others as well, because, on the contrary, in a number of things that affect the individual issues, whether health issues, municipalities and others, this implementing legislation is more important than the original law, which de facto addresses only a few selected passages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-011-038.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Therefore, in accordance with Article 90 (1) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules of Procedure were submitted to the veto of six parliamentary clubs, which means that we cannot discuss this draft law pursuant to § 90 para. 2 and the law will go through the standard process with all three readings. I am opening a general debate. Mrs Adámková is enrolled in the general debate. Before he gets here, I'll introduce you to my apologies. For working reasons, from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 19 p.m. to 19 p.m. from 11 to 19 p.m. 4. Excuse Mr Kalous. And Mr Skopeček cancels his apology from today's meeting from 15.30 on a business trip abroad, so he is present. Now Mrs Adámková has the floor, which will launch a general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-011-038.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the final sentences that my previous speaker, Mr Benda, has said what I would like to say. There's a problem that you probably don't realize at first sight, and that's, like, our citizens, soldiers who are on missions abroad. And there it is very important to have a very well treated whole sequence of events, which is, which then was not quite clear here, or is not clearly implemented in the draft law. So I'm really asking you to assign this press to the Health Committee as another committee. I won't worry about it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-011-038.u7	Yes, thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking about the final words. Is the Minister interested? He's not interested. The rapporteur? He's also not interested in the final word. There was no motion to reject or return the appellant, which is why we will now address the commandments of the motion to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. We will therefore now vote on this. I repeat once again, because some Members are coming, we are voting now that we will bring this proposal to the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 97, 159 Members signed in for 145, no one opposed it. The proposal has been adopted and this means that the Guarantee Committee for the discussion of this proposal will be the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal as a further committee for discussion to the Committee on Petitions. We will therefore vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 98, 159 Members voted in favour of 131, against 3, the proposal was adopted and the next committee to deal with this proposal is the Committee on Petitions. There was also a proposal that this press be ordered to discuss the health committee. We will vote on this proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 99, 159 Members signed in, for 139, against 1, the proposal was adopted. The Health Committee will be the next committee to deal with this proposal. The rapporteur has proposed other committees and has not specified them, so I ask you now to specify which committees we are to vote on. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-011-038.u8	I will ask you, Mr President, if you would still like to vote on the Economic Committee, the Election Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-04-18-ps2017-012-06-011-038.u9	Yes, first we will vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee. Initiating vote. Who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee? Who's against it? Voting number 100, registered by 159 Members, for 140, against 3, the proposal was adopted. The next committee on which we will vote is the Election Committee. Initiating vote. Who is for the commandment to the electoral committee? Who's against it? Voting number 101, 159 Members signed in, for 123, against 12, the proposal was adopted. The last committee to be voted on is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the commandment of the motion to this committee? Who's against it? Voting number 102, registered by 159 Members, for 146, was against none, the proposal was adopted. Other committees to discuss this proposal are the Committee on Petitions, the Health Committee, the Economic, Election and Public Administration and Regional Development Committee. There was no proposal in the debate to shorten or extend the deadline, so we have dealt with the first reading of this bill, and I am done discussing this point. Initiating item number
