ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-019-005.u1	5. The draft law amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws /German press 90/1/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned this bill with amendments; its resolution was delivered to us as House press 90/2. I welcome Senator Milada Emmerová among us, and I ask that Mrs Jaroslava Němcová speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-019-005.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the Government has tabled a bill with the intention of correcting the errors and lack of consistency of a legislative technical nature, which arose in 2017 mainly as a result of the parallel discussion of a number of amendments to social legislation at the end of the last parliamentary term. The draft law therefore has a corrective, not factual, character and does not bring about any substantive changes. The errors and inconsistencies that the bill corrects were mainly due to the fact that individual amendments could not be linked to each other, because the law had not yet been approved, nor was it obvious the effectiveness of individual amendments that had been developed since the date of publication in the Law Collection. The bill was approved by all Members in the Chamber of Deputies in a single reading regime. The bill was returned to the Senate with amendments. These are the amendments applied by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, stating that the amendments were adopted by the Committee just about half an hour before the opening of the Senate meeting on 25 April 2018, and therefore there was no time for discussion and comment on these amendments, even by the representatives of the petitioner. All amendments have been very carefully examined by the processor of the bill and can be divided into two groups from the point of view of content. There are amendments in the first group, which do not really mean any change, and these are only otherwise legislatively technically expressed amendments. In the Government's proposal, due to the amendment of the bill and the fact that a single-reading regime was proposed, a more formalally economical option was chosen, i.e. the amendment was proposed only for the parts of the provisions concerned. In the Senate's amendments, a more formal way of expressing itself is chosen, i.e. A new version of the entire provision shall be submitted, the result being the same and both possible. There is therefore no clear sense of these amendments. [[15.30 hours]] However, the second group of amendments - points 1 and 4 and related points 7 and 8 - means substantive changes in the draft law and their acceptance would not remedy errors in the provisions in question. Here I will allow for a more detailed explanation, both taking into account the complexity of the issue and, on the one hand, making it clear how to proceed properly in the future. The amendments to the Senate are based on the fact that the amendment is to be formulated on the last valid text, irrespective of the effectiveness of the individual amendments approved and irrespective of the effectiveness of the proposed amendments. This is, for example, the basis for the amendment under point 1. If changes adopted in 2017 result in a shift in the marking of paragraphs with effect from 1 January 2019, i.e. in Section 14 of the Insurance Act, as a result of the introduction of a new paragraph with effect from 1 January 2019, paragraph 7 is now referred to as paragraph 8, the amendment to the present paragraph 7 with the proposed effect during 2018 is to be based on the fact that it is already paragraph 8 and the amendment is to be reflected in paragraph 8, even if it is effectively paragraph 7. This is precisely what happened in 2017, since individual amendments were not linked in terms of their effectiveness, and this is precisely what is being corrected in the draft law presented. Thus, the regulation contained in the draft law with effect still in 2018 is correct in the wording of paragraph 7. However, when accepting amendments, there would be no remedy as the effective text would be missed. To confirm the correctness of the Government's bill and rejecting amendments, it can still be stated that it would not be clear how, for example, if paragraphs were to be remarked, a paragraph would be deleted. For example, paragraph 2 is deleted from 1 January 2020 and paragraph 3 becomes paragraph 2. The question is how would it be done if, for example, it was necessary to amend paragraph 2 from 1 January 2019, which does not exist in the most recent version. Here the principle of the application of the last text would have to be violated either or it would have been absurd to conclude that the provision could no longer be amended because it no longer exists. Another problem would be that, at some point in time in the amendment procedure, the text of the legislation would be one text, i.e. according to the last valid text, it would be paragraph 8 and the amendment would be incorporated into paragraph 7, which is, however, referred to as paragraph 8, and other wording for the application by administrative authorities, courts and natural and legal persons, as application practice must be based on the wording of an effective, thus binding, thus not valid, which is not yet binding. However, the application practice is always based on the fact that until the change takes effect, this is still paragraph 7. It can also be added that acceptance of the view that legislative technical changes, such as renumbering paragraphs, are already taking place in the Collection of Laws, although the effectiveness of the law occurs later, denies the very principle of effectiveness as binding and applicable, since, in a partial case, such as the designation of paragraphs, the effectiveness would have occurred in advance contrary to the wording of the provisions on the entry into force of the Act, i.e. from the date of publication in the Collection of Laws. The issue of validity and effectiveness could certainly be led by an extensive theoretical debate, but I think that it is clear from what has already been said that the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies is correct. The opposition to the wording of the Act was not raised either at a Resort level in the framework of the comments procedure or in the framework of the government-level discussions, including the Working Commissions of the Government Legislative Council. The adoption of amendments would bring uncertainty into both legislative and application practice, in particular as regards the resulting wording of legislation. I therefore propose to approve the bill as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which has been forwarded to the Senate. The position on the amendments is therefore disagreeable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-019-005.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the guarantee committee, which was the Committee on Social Policy, was Mrs Lucie Šafránková. I ask her if she wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. Yes, he does. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-019-005.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Minister has already mentioned a lot, I would just like to make a brief summary of the fact that the Government's bill is corrective, does not contain any substantive adjustments, corrects errors of a legislative technical nature, which arose in 2017 mainly as a result of the parallel discussion of a number of amendments to social law. As far as Senate amendments are concerned, some do not bring about any substantive change and these are only otherwise legislatively technically expressed amendments. Other amendments - these are amendments under points 1 and 4 and related points - bring about a substantive shift, but these proposals do not mean improving the bill or correcting any mistakes in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. On the contrary, these amendments would create confusion and uncertainty in both legislative and application practice, particularly as regards the resulting wording of the legislation. These amendments are based on a different version of the provisions in question and the proposed remedy would not be achieved. The Government's proposal is correctly based on the text, some of which are effective on the date of application of the proposed corrections in 2018, not on the text which will be effective only later, from 1 January 2019. I therefore propose to approve the bill in the wording in which it was forwarded to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-019-005.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the guarantee committee and open the debate. In the debate, Senator Milada Emmerová will be the first to speak. Senator, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-019-005.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been tasked with the Senate Committee on Social Affairs to present the 107th resolution of the 14th meeting held on 25 April 2018 on the cited law. It recommends the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to return the bill to the Chamber of Deputies with the amendments annexed to this resolution, and you have them undoubtedly at your disposal. The Minister also commented on them in detail. I'm just going to make a statement that sums up the whole issue. Legally, the technical amendment to the cited bill was sent to the Senate for discussion from the Chamber of Deputies, where it was approved at first reading on 14 February 2018, i.e. without discussing the local committees. It concerns a total of seven social laws, submitted in the past by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, some of which have been amended many times. During the discussions in our Senate Committee on Health and Social Affairs, the Senate's lawyers found some shortcomings, there were various discussions and controversys with lawyers from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and legislative technical proposals for changes were tabled, which are mostly of formal importance, but some also represent the implementation of substantive aspects of legal provisions. This has been approved and is therefore going back to the Chamber of Deputies. These adjustments should perhaps prevent chaos in such a sensitive area as the set of social laws. According to our court, and in my individual court in particular, it would be necessary to step up cooperation between the government translator, and I do not mean the current Minister, this is all de facto the past, and both legislative unions of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, so that Members and senators can discuss flawless bills or amendments made to the laws. This requires a perfect legal education, which most Members and Senators cannot have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-05-23-ps2017-013-02-019-005.u7	Thank you, Senator. The debate is open, I have no application for it, so I ask if anyone is applying at this time. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking the secretary, the senator, if there's any interest in final words. No, not interested. So we will proceed to the vote. In this case, we shall vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. I have called the Members to the Chamber. I will make a motion for a resolution that we will vote on now. It reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws under the House press 90/1, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 90/2.' Before I begin the vote, I will comply with the withdrawal request. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. We can now begin the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 57, 170 Members registered, for 38, against 115. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 of the Rules of Procedure. The following resolution will require the approval of an absolute majority of all Members, i.e. 101 Members. Again, please ask for the proper Majority settings. That's what happened. I will introduce you to the motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws under the House press 90/1." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 58, 171 Members registered, for 165, against 5. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Senator Emmerová and Secretary Němcová. He's claiming priority rights now... so he doesn't report. Initiating discussion of the next item
