ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on public health insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended /German press 199/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, will state the draft bill. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a proposal for an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. The aim of the proposed bill is to anchor a completely new system of payment of medical devices prescribed for vouchers in the Public Health Insurance Act with effect from 1 January 2019, as the current method of payment of medical devices will cease to apply on the last day of this year, as decided by the Constitutional Court in June 2017. This finding of the Constitutional Court abolished the provisions of the Public Health Insurance Act, which determined that the insured person's entitlement to reimbursement of prescribed medical devices was realized in the implementation of the least economically demanding economical, which the health insurance undertaking finds by market research. The Constitutional Court found this legislation to be unconstitutional with the fact that it is not actually clear how precisely the rules on payment are laid down, there is no judicial review of the procedure of health insurance companies and, as such, this system is unpredictable for the patient and is incompatible with Article 31 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The abolition of these provisions without compensation would mean that the vast majority of medical devices still covered would be issued only with the participation of the insured person from 1 January 2019 at a rate of 25 per cent of the price of the medical device, which would certainly have a negative impact on the insured person. It should be noted that the volume of medical devices is really large, health insurance companies pay about 6 billion a year, and it concerns tens of thousands of patients who need these medical devices. Therefore, the Ministry of Health paid great attention to the preparation of the new system of reimbursements, trying to create such that its constitutionality could not be called into question. At the same time, we have made sure that the resulting form of the new payment system is financially viable for the public health insurance system, which is very important, while at the same time covering as many insured people's needs as possible, so that the method of setting the payments is as administratively demanding as possible. Thus, the conditions under which medical devices will be paid include a list of medical devices in the annex to the Act, where there are individual payment groups, payment limits and other conditions for reimbursement of the medical device, as well as other instruments with the help of which it will be possible to respond to the current situation on the market for medical devices. In addition, it is expected to be the State Institute for Drug Control, which, in principle, is the core institution in the bill, which will administer the whole area, so the State Institute for Drug Control will publish a list of public medical devices paid for the voucher each month, so that it is as transparent and predictable as possible for the patient. Thus, the health insurance undertaking will learn how much the remuneration is set for the individual medical devices, and ultimately the proposed legislation will also allow the full payment of a larger spectrum of medical devices than it has been so far, since the annex, the categorization tree, is essentially much more detailed than it has been so far, which means the insured persons will reach a much wider spectrum of medical devices. The proposal was consulted with both the professional and lay public. His preparations were attended by health insurance companies, State Institute for Drug Control, Professional Chambers, Czech Medical Society, National Council of Persons with Disabilities, Patient Board of the Ministry of Health, representatives of patient organizations etc. It really was a very wide cast of those stakeholders who were involved in the creation of the law. [[15.10 hours]] I think that this is, in principle, a consensual proposal, as has also been reflected in the Committee on Health, which approved the proposal with only a few amendments that will lead to a better functioning of the proposed system, or regulate some inaccuracies in the text, but, in principle, does not change the proposal from a systemic point of view, only refine it. So this is the basis. I think it is very important, and I dare say that this is one of the biggest changes to the Public Health Insurance Act in the last few years, in order for this proposal to be approved, was in the Collection of Laws by the end of this year, because if this were not the case, as I say, from 1 January the impact on the insured would be very significant, and the impact on the public health insurance system. That is why I believe you will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u3	Thank you, too. I have Mr Kaňkovský registered for the general debate. [[Reporter reporting.]] I'm sorry. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 199/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Kamal Farhan, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, allow me to briefly recapitulate the current discussion of House Press 199 in the Chamber of Deputies as rapporteur for this press. 26, respectively. 6. the proposal was discussed at the 16th plenary meeting. The petitioner, the Government, asked for consent to the proposal at first reading in view of the impending effectiveness of the Constitutional Court finding, which is amended as at 31. 12. 2018 and repeals a substantial part of the current medical device payment regulation and the associated risk of patient participation of 25 percent. The House vetoed this procedure, so we proceed with standard procedure by three readings. On the 12th day. 7. a meeting of the Health Committee took place. In the light of the parliamentary holidays and the revised submission of several partial amendments, a resolution was approved, which suspended the discussion of that point. 5 days. 9. further discussion of this House press took place, and amendments were adopted here on the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. It was Mrs Brzobohatá's proposals on bionic prosthetics, Mr Běhounek, including partial technical adaptations paragrafo, concerning the extension of the deadline for the preparation of the State Institute for Drug Control for a new agenda and reimbursements, the repair of wheelchairs owned by the insured person, and Mr Kaňkovský, reducing the amount of the protection limit for third-degree invalidity pensions. At the same time, one of the amendments by Mr Kaňkovský concerning the co-payment of two wheelchairs, as well as the repair of a wide variety owned by the insured person, was not accepted. As rapporteur for this press, I would like to introduce you to the opinions of the key institutions which I consider to be fundamental and which are directly concerned with the draft law. The proposal was approved by Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyna, General Health Insurance Company, Association of Health Insurance Companies, Patient Board and Coalition for Health. All these subjects appeal to the maximum maintenance of the current form of the proposal, which describes a versatile compromise. At the end of my speech, I would like to announce that I will propose according to the provisions of § 95 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall shorten the minimum period between second and third reading to seven days, which I shall formally make in the context of a detailed debate. This proposal is based primarily on the fact that there is currently a risk that the amendment in question will not reach the Collection of Laws by the end of this year, or the minimum length of legislative time will cause difficulties for all the entities concerned, especially the State Institute for Drug Control, which needs to know the final form of the agenda as soon as possible. And now that I have been called upon, allow me to present the resolution of the Health Committee of the 24th meeting of 5 September 2018 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, House Press 199. Following Prime Minister Adam Vojtěch's opening remarks, Mr Kamal Farhan's report and the Health Committee's debate, I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, House Press 199, as amended by the amendments adopted - there are then detailed points on three pages concerning this, which I summarized in my short reporting report, are, of course, also included in the system; II. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee of the Member of the MUDr. Kamal Farhan, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, may propose other necessary adjustments under Section 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee of the Member of the MUDr. Kamal Farhan, to make the committee's position known to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies - which I have now done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u5	Thank you, too. I'm sorry again. I am now indeed opening up a general debate. Mr Kaňkovský is the first to join her, and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u6	Good afternoon. Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act has been discussed very closely in the Committee on Health, and the genesis has actually been presented to you in detail by the rapporteur, Kamal Farhan. A number of headings have been discussed, a number of questions from both Members and the professional public. I must say that the Ministry of Health has actually prepared a summary of the answers to our questions. I can say for myself that part of those questions has been settled, as I think the situation stands, for some of the questions we haven't quite met. However, we are all aware of the time pressure that drives the legislative process forward so that the amendment is actually in the Collection of Laws by the end of this calendar year and that from 1. 1. 2019 did not threaten the citizens already mentioned here twenty-five percent participation in the payment of medical devices. It must be said that the time pressure is not a legislative process for the benefit and that there is a real risk that all the pitfalls and questions about the pricing of payment and regulatory measures have not been revealed and that not all of them have been discussed and settled in detail. In particular, I am referring to the fact that a legislative option has been chosen in which the categorization tree and the conditions of payment are designed directly into the body of the law. This step is unique within legislative rules and has clear risks. We also have not yet learned from the Ministry of Health what algorithm was chosen by the Ministry of Health to determine specific payments and participation of patients in individual groups of medical devices. And I'm sure there are more questions left. Despite everything I have just mentioned, the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club feels the need to move forward in the legislative process. As we announced here at first reading, we have prepared several amendments to this House's press. The rapporteur has already mentioned here that one of them was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Health. Specifically, this amendment did not concern the issue of medical devices, but solves one problem from the past. It is a measure of disproportion, specifically concerning the protection limits for supplements on medicinal products for persons with third degree disability. Here I would like to remind you that according to statistics, the income side of third-degree disabled people is worse than the income of old-age pensioners in the long term. That is why, at the initiative of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, I proposed to the Committee on Health that the supplement on medicines should be at the same level as for seniors over 70, i.e. CZK 500 per year. We discussed it with the Department of Health. I must appreciate that the discussion was constructive. In essence, the point at issue has shown the effectiveness of this proposed change. Finally, we reached a compromise, and in the Health Committee, the House was recommended to approve the amendment, which postpones the effectiveness of this one specific point with a date from 1. 1. 2020 to ensure that health insurance companies and the whole system are prepared for this. [[15.20 hours]] I would like to read the other two amendments today at second reading. We have reduced our ideas on the scope of the issue that should be concerned, so it will be just two amendments. The first concerns co-operation in patients who need to co-operate as an electric wheelchair, they usually use it, or basically use it exclusively in the exterior, i.e. in the outdoors, and the reimbursement of the simultaneously used mechanical trolley, which they use in the interior, but also if they are reclassified and managed to be included in the working process. Here we were looking for some kind of penetration with the Department of Health, and I have to say, even with the health insurance companies, to the maximum remuneration on that mechanical wheelchair, and we have, I hope, reached consensus. I will therefore ask you to support this amendment at the compromise level. The second amendment, which I will be reading today, concerns the reimbursement of the repair of wheelchairs owned by the insured person. Here too, we discussed, e-mailed and consulted with health insurance companies and the Ministry. I will admit that we have not yet reached consensus on this issue, but this amendment will be read and I hope that we will still discuss these amendments on the Guarantee Committee and that we will finally reach a compromise at third reading. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u7	Thank you, too, and before I invite another duly registered speaker, President Stanjura has signed up with priority rights. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to get back to the time point. The minister put it first reading, and the government, in the '90s. We vetoed it, many amendments show that we were right. At that time, the government majority voted to reduce the deadline for committee discussions to 30 days. I would like to ask the rapporteur how the Health Committee has dealt with this deadline. When I pointed out that it was completely unnecessary, that there would probably be a meeting, despite all this, you voted to shorten the deadline to 30 days. Behold, the meeting was in August! This means if the health committee met 30 days, respectively. We already had a meeting in August where we discussed pensions, that was a proper meeting. If the health committee met this deadline, or we could have discussed this without the committee's opinion. Not that it's happy, but the deadline is so that it can be discussed sooner. It wasn't discussed. So when you propose to shorten the deadline and the opposition says it's useless, try to remember the particular example. When I was looking at the first time a health committee came together to do this, which also interrupted the negotiations - wonder to the world! - after 30 days. So I don't know if the chair of the Health Committee is governed by law, if there is a deadline, then the committee is obliged to discuss it within that period, and not that it will first start to deal with it after the deadline. One. Second, so in August we could have a second reading and we could have a third reading last week. We are hearing today that we need to shorten the deadline for negotiations between second and third readings. My previous speaker said that there are still undisputed and unsolved problems. But there is no fundamental political dispute, whether or not there is. We're discussing the quality of the proposal. That is how I understood the amendments. No one's against it. It's more of a debate, making things work out so there's no mistake. Why didn't we discuss this last week, Minister? When we have so little time? We've had four negotiating days last week, and not once have you, nor anyone, nor the chair of the Health Committee, nor the chairman of your club suggested it, when we have so little time and there is a risk that it will not be discussed. What do you mean? What were you doing last week, Minister? We could have had a proper third reading in a variable week without shortening the deadlines. With the right time to discuss. So every time we start complaining - and I'm not going to repeat my first reading speech, when that law was abolished by the Constitutional Court, how long it took the government to present it. And then all of a sudden, those who want to debate the quality of the law - we're gonna get there today, I'm looking forward to point 32, when we're correcting the law again, which we had to approve in the last parliamentary term. We've been pointing those things out. Today I read in the explanatory report that the government said what the opposition said at the time, yet last time it was approved by the government majority. All I have to do is ask. If we're gonna argue a time emergency again, let's start with each other. And say for example: We proposed 30 days, but we failed to do so, for these and these reasons the Health Committee did not deal with this at all in the first 30 days since the meeting was convened. Last week we could have a second reading to have a proper time between second and third reading, but for these reasons it was not possible. Not always just come and say, "We're in a hurry, fast, if you don't raise your hand, there's gonna be a problem, you're gonna be the culprits! Someone else is the culprit of time pressure and time distress, as I have documented on several data from the House of Deputies website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u9	Thank you, too. Now, please, with Mr Farhan's factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I listened carefully, it was mentioned here that the Health Committee failed to meet the 30-day deadline. I'm gonna try to get a short recap and hopefully disprove this. 26, respectively. 6. this proposal was discussed at the 16th plenary meeting. And 12. 7. a 21st meeting of the Health Committee was held, which discussed this bill and interrupted it. But from my point of view, she kept a 30-day deadline and dealt with what the House had given her. So that's a factual remark for me on the foreman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u11	I also thank you, and now I ask you for a debate... yes, please, President Stanjuru, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u12	Of course, I don't have to be right. I'm not a member of the Health Committee. But I am based on the official website of the Chamber of Deputies, where I read: The House discussed the proposal at first reading in the general debate on 26 June, which we agree, ordered by committees, Resolution No. 281. The deadline for committee discussions was 30 days, which we agree. And then I read: The Health Guarantee Committee discussed the bill and issued 1. 8. 2018. So if he's been discussing this and adopted the resolution of the guarantee committee on July 12th, then there's been a mistake, then I'm sorry, but it should be written correctly on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, on July 12th, the committee has been discussing and interrupting the hearing. When you look at it, I have it in front of me, it says August 1st, and the second time you discussed it on September 10th, when you discussed the amendments. [[unintelligible]] So the mistake is not on my side, if that was the case, so the resolution is not captured in the information system of the Chamber of Deputies, and I can, of course, come out if I am not a member, I can only come out of the official website. But we could still discuss it after 30 days in plenary, that's just the law. And I warned you it was unnecessary to shorten the deadline. Mr rapporteur, do you remember our debate at first reading what you said? No, no, no, that's what it takes, let's cut it short! And on September 10th, you adopted your position. I understand, the problem is not simple. But the deadlines are clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Farhan has rejoined me with a point of fact, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u14	Just in a nutshell, I didn't want to draw attention here to my previous speaker's mistake. I just wanted to state or modify the data that we probably drew from different sources. But I certainly don't have anything else to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u15	I, too, thank you and we will return... we will not return - Mrs Adámková reports with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have been invited even three times by name, which has not yet happened in this House, so I thank the engineer for this interest in our committee and my person. And I must say that on July 12th, or richly within a period of 30 days, we started discussing this press, of course, as the law commands us, in the presence of both the Ministry and the Minister of Health. And the committee decided by all the votes, as everyone was present, that it would not actually be discussed, we had this information, and I brought it up to the Organizing Committee, that it would not be discussed in that variable week. And in agreement with the Ministry of Health, it was decided - and of course all members of the Health Committee agreed - that this meeting would be suspended. But not that we haven't started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u17	I, too, thank you and, please, with Mr Stanjura's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u18	I have already apologized to the rapporteur. It's just not on the web, so it's hard to say if it was there on July 12th... However, let's understand each other. That time limit is therefore not due to begin the hearing, Madam President through the Vice-President. That deadline isn't until it's due to begin. Until the end of the committee procedure! We can start tomorrow, the next day after the first reading can be. That deadline is for the committee or committees to deliver an opinion until then and after that period the Chamber of Deputies or the Chamber of Deputies is entitled to discuss the material at second reading. And when I pointed out that 30 days was meaningless, you guys voted you'd make it. And you didn't make it! You didn't even make it in 60 days, at the standard time, because on September 10th, you gave an opinion. I just said it. I don't blame you. I mean, the next time you shorten the deadline, you're supposed to be done by then, not starting a hearing. That's not what the deadline's for. The deadline is when the hearing is to be terminated. And it is an administrative error, so I believe that either the secretariat of your committee or then the Office of the Chamber of Deputies will correct it, and that is what the resolution will deliver. Then I wouldn't be doing it, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u19	I, too, thank you and Mrs Adámková, with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u20	Thank you again for the floor. Thank you for the summary of the issue. I repeat that the committee would even finish this point, but it was decided by the members of the committee as decided, and we can, of course, ask the administration of the Ministry of Health how this happened. But if it's not in the system, we'll look into it. I didn't check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u21	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate. Thank you, Mrs Adámková, for keeping time on the point of fact, and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková is now duly registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, the honourable House, I admit that I think a little bit that the debate on the procedure and the deadlines, whether or not they have been fulfilled, should perhaps be part of the debate on the leadership of club presidents or other grémia, and we should look at the substance of what we are discussing. It would certainly be more interesting for any viewers and listeners, as well as for us fellow Members. I have applied for the floor because, firstly, I want to support the amendment, which brings the limits into line, the level of the limits on medicines for seniors with those they have, respectively. do not yet have people with disabilities. As a social democracy, we have proposed and pushed for the limits on the supplements for the elderly to be reduced to CZK 500 today, but we have to admit, and there was nothing else to be achieved at the time, but we have to admit that people with disabilities are even more demanding patients from the point of view of the need for medicines, from the point of view of health care than possibly some senior patients. That is why I am very much and very much in favour of adopting this amendment. However, I would like to update one more amendment. This concerns dispensing medical devices. It is understandable that in pharmacies and dispensing medical devices, for example, electric wheelchairs or individually constructed leg prostheses cannot be given well enough. However, the existing wording of the legal provision, which set out the contractual dispenser, was extremely overused and led to the existence of approximately 1,500 contractual dispensers in the Czech Republic, by which health insurance companies in the past allowed the supply of a wide range of medical devices. However, the very vague wording, which in the present provision is, terminus technicus "helps for the disabled," in extremely extensive interpretation, caused the signing of a contract for the provision and reimbursement of medical devices in full portfolio from incontinence aids to strips into glucose meters. This really is not justified. This condition no longer constitutes the intended extraordinary institute to cover cases where the standard network of pharmacies providers, i.e. pharmacies and dispensations of medical devices cannot be used. The amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate eliminates an unequal competitive environment in an area where this inequality has no justification. In the event of adoption of this amendment, the issue of mass-produced orthopedic-prosthetic medical devices, medical devices for instrument lymphodrawer, medical devices for patients with hearing impairment, medical devices compensation for visually impaired and respiratory medical devices, inhalation and for the application of enteral nutrition will be granted only to standard dispensers of medical devices, i.e. to pharmacies and medical devices dispensing. The proposal will thus straighten the business environment, unite the conditions for all dispensers of normal medical devices and contract dispensers who are moving in a regular simplified environment, leave such groups of medical devices that really cannot be effectively spent through a network of pharmacies and dispensed medical devices. The amendment will have a number of 1305 in the system, and I will join it in a detailed debate and ask you once again to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u23	Thank you, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, for her performance. He will now speak with his application by Mrs Hana Aulická, Mr Pawlas will be prepared. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u24	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay you, in any event I believe that this amendment is certainly interesting for most colleagues, but let me comment now on my two amendments, which I think are really beneficial, and I think that they will do a very good thing for patients. One of the amendments is the result of a long discussion with representatives of health insurance companies, patient organisations and suppliers themselves. The point is that the proposed text of the House's 199 press, as submitted by the government, envisages that all paid voucher medical devices are located in a categorization tree. However, new innovative products are at risk of failing to be included in any payment group immediately and will have to wait six months or a year for it to be created. In the meantime, the amendment envisages payment of 75 percent with the consent of the Ministry of Health. My amendment amends this scheme so that these non-sanctioned medical devices receive a 50 per cent remuneration with the consent of the Ministry of Health, but in the event of the conclusion of a risk-sharing agreement with health insurance companies they will receive a full remuneration of 100 per cent of the price. The amendment addresses three problems at once. First, no supplier is paid in the long term at the expense of the insured person's involvement to keep his medical device in the payment of 75 per cent. Secondly, insured people will also be fully covered by new innovative medical devices practically immediately and health insurance companies will ensure cost sustainability through a risk-sharing agreement. Therefore, there is no risk that their costs would increase uncontrollably, and there is no risk of abuse of Section 16. And thirdly, all limits to critical, indicative and quantitative restrictions will be retreated with reference to the terms of the Ministry of Health's consent, respectively. the content of the risk-sharing agreement. [[15.40 hours]] The second amendment is that it will allow legally transparent payment of life saving aids for patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension. That means patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension are covered with a drug that allows them to live. For its outpatient application, infusion pumps with accessories that are paradoxically not replaced are necessary and the system is thus going around and these necessary aids are subsidized in various ways. The amendment therefore has the full support of the professional company. That is why, of course, in the third reading and, of course, in the guarantee committee, I will ask for your support for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u25	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická. Now, Mr Daniel Pawlas, and Mr Válek, who is the last member of the general debate so far, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u26	Mr President, colleagues, let me present my amendment. I've got it divided into three parts. In the first part it concerns incontinence when the amendment to Act No. 48/1997 Coll. the participation of insured persons of 2 per cent in the case of medical devices intended for patients with third degree incontinence, which are typically clients of social care homes. Until now, these insured persons have not paid for the medical devices in question. Statistics show that the most incontinence affected by the group is women in 75 years of age and above, and this group is also among the population of the most affected by poverty. The second most affected group is men of high senior age and people affected by any form of brain dysfunction, whether caused by injury, acute illness or birth defect. Given that there is currently no general safeguard limit in the law on the amount of medical supplements, any amount of new participation could be disproportionately burdensome for this social group of patients. The proposed measure will then significantly affect in particular clients of social services - homes for seniors, homes with special regime, homes for disabled persons - who have a very limited income defined by Act No. 108/2006 Sb. to 15 per cent of the old-age pension from which they must pay e.g. even small supplements for medicines, not all of which are equipped with a protective financial limit. In view of the above, I note that there are 160,000 people with dementia in the Czech Republic. These people are mostly suffering from severe incontinence and are dependent on the help of the family, both physical and financial, or located in specialized centres. Caregivers, who must always use other, small-scale financial resources than the care allowance, care provision and possible new financial participation in the daily incontinence to the aid may have a significant impact on them that they will no longer be objectively able to meet all financial needs for care of their loved ones. At first glance, this seems to be a marginal amount, 2%, so it is essential for these people, while they only have 15 percent of their old-age pension. It is necessary to emphasise and always bear in mind, when setting these measures, that incontinence aids are used in the vast majority of persons with the most severe disability, of which virtually a slim part has any income other than pension. They are not capable of any gainful activity at all, and in most cases they are completely derelict. Unfortunately, a large part of them also have very disharmonic family ties, and therefore it is not possible to rely on any payment by their family. In Part B of my amendment, I will bow down and propose... and its aim is to correct the historical injustice that has already been enshrined within the code list of health insurance companies, when equivalent medical devices have had a lower remuneration, purely because of their previous registration, which I think is absolutely absurd. In view of the fact that prices within the code lists concerned cannot be increased over a number of years, it is now necessary that the system does not continue to discriminate against one group of equivalent medical devices compared to the other group. As the new system is evolutionaryly set up according to analyses and reporting of health insurance companies, unfortunately, the current situation continues in the above mentioned cases. In the case of two payment groups of medical devices, the amount of remuneration is thus insufficient. I suggest increasing the payment limits of polyurethane hydropolymers and foam from 0.96 CZK to 1.74 centimeters for gel, respectively. 2.17 per cent inch in the case of an edged gel, accurately copies the setting of payment limits for comparable silicone products. [[♪ to ♪]] As for Part C of my amendment, it must be noted that this amendment is based on the simple fact that the relevant sub-category of the payment group, which is called bandages and patches, but these medical devices, which are subsets of this sub-category, represent only bandages. The patches would not have been covered at all compared to the current condition. Bandages are important medical devices, which currently do not burden health insurance companies with a fundamental budget, but the benefits to patients are essential. This payment group was not even the subject of discussions on the exclusion of payments between the Ministry, health insurance companies and suppliers' representatives. So I think it would be right for the patches to come back, too, and I think it's a means that we all use almost every day. I will then sign up in a detailed debate on my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u27	Thank you, Mr Daniel Pawlas. And now Mr Válek has the floor, at this point still the last to be logged in to the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we got ourselves into a situation where we're probably all going to have to support the law in some way for patients. It's not that we think it's ideal, he's been going for years. But of course I have a few reservations or a few uncertainties, questions. The one matches what my colleague Kaňkovský said, and that's that part of this law is actually a list of the products. And the list, from my point of view, has been changing every year in agreement with the insurance companies. There was a new list. It was always part of a deal. So I assume that this law will appear once, maybe twice in Parliament every year, always as we renew the list. That means, what is the idea of the frequency of the amendment of the law? Whether it's every year or how often it will be. The second thing that's not entirely clear to me. Those medical devices generally pass through certification in the Czech Republic. There are very few certification bodies in the Czech Republic and basically it is not an entirely simple tool to force the body to ask for approval as certification. I got the impression from the law that by the end of next year, these products will have to be re-certified. If this is the case, is the system at all ready for manufacturers to re-certification these products and how do we even force manufacturers to re-certification them? If they have to re-certification... When I looked at the price for one recertification, it was about 200 grand. Doesn't that mean it doesn't lead to the recertification that medical devices are going to get expensive, and that means that the prices that are listed there are going to turn out to be low? I think we're going to have to discuss this. And maybe all my concerns are unfounded, and they're just due to the fact that I've been in the health system as an old man for 30 years, so I'm sober to be scared of any product list that's annexed to any law. [[with laughter]] Therefore, I would just like to draw attention to these problems at this point, and perhaps, if there are clear answers now, he has asked for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u29	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek. This was the last one entered into the general debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. If no one... Still in the debate, Minister? Okay, please. Minister of Health of the Government of the Czech Republic Adam Vojtěch still in open debate general. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, about what Mr. Válek said in that last speech. It's not like that. The law doesn't deal with certification, but it really only deals with remuneration. Certification of medical devices is addressed by the Act on medical devices, which has been valid and effective for several years, even though it was assumed that the reimbursement of medical devices as a new system would be adopted at the same time at the time it was adopted a few years ago, which is what happened today. But the Medical Devices Act is separate, and this law doesn't expect any certification to be dealt with. [[15.50 hours]] As far as the list is concerned, this is, of course, a topic that has been very resonating as part of the preparation of the proposed law, which is now on your desk. So whether the list is supposed to be in the law, or if it's supposed to be in some implementing regulation, so that it's easier, of course, to change it. The problem is that the Constitutional Court, in its constant caselaw, applied, whether in the case of so-called above-standards or in the case of paid spa treatment, repeatedly stated that the patient's claim must be laid down in the law. That this is constitutionally conformal in accordance with Article 31 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. That is why, after the debates which were constitutionally legal in nature, the method was chosen that the annex, the categorization tree, would be included directly in the annex to the law, and it would therefore have to be amended. We are counting on her working group to continue to work at the Ministry of Health, which prepared this proposal, where all so-called stakeholders have something to say, whether they are insurance companies, patients, manufacturers, State Institute for Drug Control, and so on, the Ministry of Health, and this group will be established as a permanent body at the Ministry of Health and will always be this amendment once in a while, or the law, to revise and prepare an amendment to the law with the fact that this law, the Public Health Insurance Act in general, is one of the more frequently amended health laws. So from this point of view, we're assuming that these amendments, if needed, will take place quite regularly. Even if I don't think it's about it having to change every month. Indeed, this is more likely after some time when it is assessed that some payment group needs to be adjusted within the categorization tree. So we don't think that's a major problem, and that would lead to some major restriction on patients' access to medical devices. But it's clear that the way we approve the proposal today, it's not gonna be a rigid form. This will indeed be a living organism that will change over time. But, as I say, after all these debates, there is no alternative to making this claim directly enshrined in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u31	I thank the Minister of Health. Mr Vlastimil Válek has applied for a response in a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u32	Thank you very much, and through Mr President, I would like to thank you that even the petitioner is counting on the continuous culturing of the law in time and space. And I just want to make sure one more time. That means, do we know 100% that the medical devices that are in that law won't have to be certified again next year? That's all I want to know for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. If no one applies to the general debate - yet the Minister? Okay. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u34	I'm applying because Mr. Válek asked this question. It really won't be. This law will now be passed by us and there will be a transitional period within which manufacturers will actually be able to include their medical resources in specific payment groups and subgroups. That's the transition period. That's what it's supposed to be used for. But it's not like they have to re-certification all medical devices. The medical devices just have the certification. As for the Czech notified persons who are doing this - those who are engaged in this know that we have two certified persons here who are engaged in this. But, of course, the certification is also carried out abroad when it comes to some foreign producers. So it's not like they have to re-certification. It's about the fact that he has to put his medical devices in that categorization tree during the transitional period. That's what the time is for, but not for all medical devices to have to be certified again or re-certified. Indeed, this law does not count on that. If that were the case, I suppose the manufacturers of medical devices would not be entirely supportive of this proposal. And, of course, they were also in preparation for the bill. So it really doesn't count on some new certification or recertification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u35	I thank Minister Vojtěch for his performance. I ask if anyone is reporting to the general debate. This is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Will I ask the final words after the general debate? There is no interest either from the Minister or from the rapporteur. There was no proposal in the general debate that we could vote on after the general debate. I will begin the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. This is the first Mr Kamal Farhan to report. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u36	Just as I have announced, I would like to sign up for what I have announced in the general debate, pursuant to Section 95 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[Proposal]] That's what I'd like to suggest here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u37	Thank you. Yes, this is the right place to propose a shortening of the deadline between second and third readings. We will therefore continue with the Members who have been enrolled in the detailed debate. First Mrs Věra Adámková. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you an amendment to the press 199, which is House document 1242, Article II (1) and (2). In Article II (1), the words "in the amount as paid' are replaced by the words "in the amount and under the conditions in which they were paid'. Reason. The proposed amendment specifies the wording of point 1 of the transitional provision in such a way as to make it clear that the medical devices referred to in this point will be paid not only at the level but also under the same conditions as those under which they were paid at 31. 12. 2017, in particular, in a precise, indicative and multiple way. And in Article II (2) the words "in the amount to which they were paid" are replaced by the words "in the amount and under the conditions in which they were paid." Reason. The proposed amendment specifies the wording of point 2 of the transitional provision in such a way as to make it clear that the medical devices referred to in this point will be paid not only at the level, but also under the same conditions as those paid on 31 December 2018 in a precise, indicative and multiple manner. Therefore, the applicable wording of Article II (1) and (2) of the Act on medical devices prescribed for vouchers as at 31 December 2017, with the exception of individually manufactured medical devices, shall be covered from the date of entry into force of this Act in the amount to which they were paid and under the conditions under which they were paid as at 31 December 2017, until the date of publication of their new remuneration pursuant to Act No. 48/1997 Coll., as amended, effective from the date of entry into force of this Act. And point 2. The medical devices prescribed for the voucher as at 31 December 2018, but not reserved as at 31 December 2017, with the exception of individually manufactured medical devices, shall be covered from the date of entry into force of this Act in the amount to which they were paid, in the amount and under the conditions under which they were paid as at 31 December 2018, until the date of publication of their new remuneration pursuant to Act No. 48/1997 Coll., as amended, effective from the date of entry into force of this Act. I would ask you to support this supplemented amendment because if the conditions were not there, there could be a threat to patients in a certain self-creating restriction that would not be clearly defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u39	Thank you, Mrs Věra Adámková, for her performance. We will continue with Mrs Jana Pastuchová's speech, and Mrs Aulická will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u40	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment under number 1297, which concerns § 39n para. 5 which will read: The Institute shall publish only in a way that allows remote access to administrative proceedings which it maintains pursuant to § 39a to §39l and §39p. Data designated as subject of business secrecy shall not be provided by the Institute or otherwise published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u41	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická in a detailed debate, Mr Daniel Pawlas will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to sign up for the amendment under 1306 and 1307. I said my reasons for these two amendments in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u43	Thank you. Mr Daniel Pawlas has the floor now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u44	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to apply to my amendment under number 1251, which is inserted into the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u45	Thank you. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, now. Mrs Hana Gajdůškovášková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u46	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, as I have already announced in the general debate, I would like to come forward in a detailed debate on two amendments under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 1292 and 1296. Otherwise, I spoke about their subject in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u47	Thank you. The last one in the detailed debate so far is Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, who I am giving the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u48	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to sign up for this House document under number 1305. This amendment has written reasons directly in the press and I have justified it in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u49	Thank you, Madame. I ask who is next reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. In that case, I will engage and concentrate on the decision that was proposed in the debate, and that is that the deadline for the third reading should be reduced to seven days. [[This is the Minister of Health.]] I ended the debate, but if the Minister wants to speak, he will restore it. I don't think that's a problem. Before the vote, Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health of the Government of the Czech Republic, reports with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u50	Thank you. I would still like to open the debate so that Mr Kaňkovský, who made a mistake in the number of his amendment, can speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u51	Okay. In that case, a detailed debate shall be opened. I ask the House for peace. I will ask Mr Vít Kaňkovský to take the floor in a detailed debate. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u52	I apologize to all colleagues and colleagues and to the Minister. Turns out the numbers were right. I have read the one amendment twice because we have yet to recalculate the value there, given that it is correct rounding, so it is true that 1292 and 1296 are valid. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-09-18-ps2017-019-05-002-017.u53	Okay, thank you. I ask who goes on to the detailed debate that was opened by the Minister of Health. I see no one, so I can end the debate. In a detailed debate, a proposal was made for us to take action pursuant to Paragraph 94 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 010 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 1 they agreed that the period between second and third reading would be reduced to seven days. We'll decide that in the vote number one-four. I'm gonna check you all out before I do, and I'm gonna ask you for a new registration to find out the exact number of people present. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has settled and the atmosphere in the House calms down, we will decide on this proposal. I will give time to the other arrivals by reading the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Today, between 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m., Mr. Jan Lipavský of the Pirates Club apologizes for the negotiations without justification. The number of entries is stabilized. Initiating vote number 104, I ask who is in favour of shortening the deadline between second and third readings. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 104, from 150 in favour of 126, versus 8. The motion was accepted. We cut the deadline between second and third reading to seven days. That concludes the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 17. According to the approved agenda, we have a point ahead of us.
