ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u1	18. Draft of the Pardubice Region's representative for the Act amending Act No. 500/2004 Sb., Administrative Code, as amended / House print 54/ - first reading I ask that instead of the rapporteur's table, Mr Netolickýý and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, take the position. This has happened, we are in the middle of a general debate. Members who are enrolled with a factual remark are next. The first enrollment is Mr Ivan Adamec. Yes, I'll erase Mr. Adamec. Next, according to the electronic applications, is Mr Krejza. I am merely saying, after the interruption, that the other comments made by Mr Krejza are Members Kupka, Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Baxa and President Michálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I have run out of speech. I was a fourth-year student in 1989, and I really, really don't talk easy now. Okay, it's history. Let's go back to our point. Without suspecting President Michálek's colleague through Mr President that he has or does not have experience, I can tell you that as a municipal politician, I am terrified of the building office. You have no influence, but all responsibility. Those citizens don't understand and come to complain to whom? The mayor. If he's not there, the deputy mayor. And I can tell you that the debate is not pleasant at all. In fact, those officials rule that office. You can't even call them off, or hurt them too much, and no one dares. And it's not like it's just a bunch of buffoons. That's just the way it is. The clerk is irrevocable today. And we know what's going on with the extension of the construction process. Infinitely long, ordinary house nine months today, no problem. I really do not see any issue of bias in this, and although I have reservations about other votes from our colleagues, in this case, I will allow myself to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u3	Thank you. Mr Kupka's point of fact follows. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also join those who support this legislative initiative because it is important. I refuse to accept the idea that all officials in the Czech Republic are biased or at least a shadow of bias hovers over them. It may then seem that if the mayor gives an opinion, it may automatically be assumed that all his officials share it or are already biased. One particular example. If the ŘSD wants to build a bypass near the city, the local authority will decide, and the mayor will say, in the sense that it would welcome the bypass. Does this mean that the officials are automatically biased and should not make decisions about this and should, if possible, be decided by an office 20 km away from the place that is guaranteed to be unsubstantiated? Well, he may be biased, but he won't be locally knowledgeable either. So we're not gonna have a biased office, but his decision isn't gonna be any better. On the contrary, we can achieve that, in order to fight for automatic bias or systemic bias, we will be given decisions that will have much more serious problems. The important thing is that there are still many functional mechanisms in the Czech Republic to defend themselves against the wrong decision of the authorities, and those who do so know the practice very well. So I am not afraid that on the basis of such a legislative initiative there would be a worse decision in the Czech Republic. On the contrary, I am convinced that it will be better and in shorter times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u5	Thank you. The following is Mrs Langšádlová's factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also experienced, like many of you, the debate around 2000, when there was talk about what the model of public administration would be here. The decision is simply what it is. There's a mixed model here, we have a common government, a government, and it operates under cities and it operates under regions. That's just reality. And I have to admit, I don't quite understand what was being said here by fellow pirát. I've been through something else. We became an oerpéke, 170 civil servants from the district office came under us. And I've been working with them as great professionals, like those who really know the job, were confident, didn't let themselves be influenced, and that's a good thing, of course. Although it is logical that the representative of the government can see this differently, he has and can pronounce his opinion, but it is not even those who should rule, the responsibility is great. I have to confirm what has been said here, sometimes they make mistakes, and then, truth be told, they take the government away, even if it's not their fault. But neither do those who rule, but not those who are subject. Because what do we need? We need self-confident professional government, whether at the level of municipalities, regions or the state. And that's where we should support them. We really can't always suspect someone will fail and want to do dirty work. And if anyone fails, we really have remedies. And don't worry about these modifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u7	Thank you. Mr Baxa's point of fact. After that, Mr Munzar, Mrs Birke, Mrs Dostálová, are registered with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u8	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In the introduction, I would mention the fact that I do not think it is mentioned in the explanatory report on this proposal that the Pilsen Region also signed up for this initiative directly by the resolution of the Plzeň Region's representative. Among other things, based on the fact that both the City of Plzeň and the Pilsen Region have experience with what the overstretched interpretation in this spirit can cause, when the city of Plzeň decided to build a waste energy recovery facility, the competent authority according to the administrative order was the environmental department of the regional authority and, moreover, the Plzeň Region under self-government jurisdiction, under the law it was under separate jurisdiction to develop a waste management plan of the region where this incinerator was envisaged. Completely as a logical, reasonable step, a perfectly logical, reasonable procedure, and yet, during the whole process, the construction of this facility has just found itself under the pressure of the associations that attacked it because of the alleged systemic bias of regional officials, where the regional authority could not otherwise proceed, because under the law it was responsible for this procedure in a delegated capacity, and at the same time the Pilsen Region had a separate competence to draw up a waste management plan. I'd have to say I felt a little crazy back then. So I very much welcome this initiative. I think it is very useful and useful when it comes to its work. Finally, I would like to mention one thing through Mr President about the President of the pirát Club Michálek. I, Mr President, do understand sometimes that you are trying to find some improvement in the state administration, for example, but I consider it unpleasant and in many ways dangerous that there is still an unspoken assumption in your speeches that people who are in the leadership of municipalities, regions, representatives, officials and priori want to deal with their agenda and their tasks with some unfair intentions. [[Attention, time's up.]] And I don't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u9	Mr Munzar and his point of order. The MP isn't here, so he can't get off. Mr Birke's point of fact follows. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Governor, allow me to tell you an even more bizarre story from my practice. We've been trying to build a city bypass for 12 or 13 years, bypass Náchod. And in order to get a territorial decision, which, of course, is decided by the state administration, by the construction office, I cannot, Mr Kupka, by your means, Mr President, say in the media neither out loud nor on Facebook, anywhere that is my wish. Why? Since there is a case-law of the Brno court that says that the mayor of the city cannot, he must not show his wish to build something, which is decided by the official of the administration. That's reality. Reality of the madhouse! I'm sorry. So that's really bizarre. And to make matters worse, you'll have to forgive one of the lemmings of one ecological party, which we all have in our councils, certainly, each of us has such a lemming, and that person monitors Facebook not only for me, but also for the clerk, and God forbid, if the clerk indicates anything that the city is clogged or Náchod, anything, he will immediately be labeled as a captive and he will shoot it, and that will, of course, bring it down. That's what I'm saying. I'm not saying this because, by your means, I'm attacking you, no, not at all, on the contrary, I agree with you. Because it's an absolute madhouse. Mr. Governor, I wish you luck to make this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u11	Madam Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová and her factual point. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. First of all, I must say that as a Member of the Králové Hradec Region, I strongly support this proposal, because it is not possible for the Governor to sign the memorandum that he wants a university campus, along with the Mayor, and at that moment they became systemically biased and dealt with the position of the proper authorities of the Hořice office, which obviously has no capacity at all. And from Hradec Králové there is already everything in Hořice, so this situation is unbearable. As Minister for Regional Development, however, I must say that systemic bias is indeed, there is a need for a system solution that we will be dealing with in the context of the recodification of building law. We have already touched on many aspects here, where we will really have to think about the position of building offices within a mixed model. And it is also necessary to discuss this law in committees, because it must also be thought that it is not possible to issue the so-called law. Bianko's check that they can't all be systemically biased by law, because if, for example, a particular official solves a problem on a neighbouring property, where he lives, he's clearly systemically biased, and it's dropped by the court. So I assume that we will discuss this in detail in the committees, but I will also support this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u13	Thank you. Let me introduce you to my apologies. Minister Stropnický apologizes from today's meeting up to 13 o'clock for reasons of work; Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologises from today's meeting from 13.30 to the end of the meeting; for family reasons Mrs Krutáková apologizes from 12.10 to the end of the meeting and also apologises from the meeting between 12 and 18 o'clock due to another meeting by Mr František Elfmark. President Michálek is entered in the general debate on this point. I give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would first respond to the remarks made by the previous speakers. First to a colleague I would like to say that I think it is not entirely appropriate to compare the institutional position of the judge in the Czech Republic and the civil servant. The judge has institutional and personnel guarantees of his impartiality and independence to a much greater extent than the official does. So I'm sure the clerk is subordinate to, say, the director of the county office, and he's doing his homework, and he's getting his salary approved by the governor, so there's a certain relationship of subjection to whoever's at the head of the county authority, whereas, in the case of the judge, I don't think the relation of subjection to the prime minister is yet given. See you then. As for the remarks made by the Governor of Netolický, these were aimed at questioning the mixed model of the state administration. We didn't question that at all, although, of course, I think that's something that we could and should discuss. We are now discussing the case that a public administration body decides on its own, on its own interests, and in that case, of course, it is logical that some bias should be dealt with, because specifically it seems so - and I regret, of course, that in some municipalities it has not been possible to build a bypass in 15 years. This, of course, is a problem and it is a problem of how, for example. The building process works administratively, if there's no need to digitize the files and speed up their circulation. Let's say the city approves of building a road or a heating station. For example, in Prague, it was approved that Blanka will stand up for 34 billion. Crowns, respectively. it was approved for 20, it ended up costing 34 billion. Crowns. So the Director of the City Council or the Regional Authority or the Secretary is in a situation where he has the task of building the building. And now he's got one director in charge of the investment department, and the director is in charge of making the investment. And of course, in some ways, the investment interferes with private ownership, because these relationships are measured in the building process. So let's say, if there's a heat plant or a factory or a road somewhere, it's obviously affecting the impressions, e.g. by noise, into the land of the owners that are in the vicinity of the road. And, of course, these owners are also defending themselves within the framework of the construction process. And the task of building proceedings, which should be decided impartially, is to measure these interests of different parties. On the one hand, the city that is an investor, and on the other hand, the people who are affected, their ownership is affected. So I really don't get the idea that we can accept the situation in which the city will also be the investor and, at the same time, who decides on the investor as one of the parties to the proceedings, and there are a number of other parties to the proceedings. I think that one of the exits that has been raised here - and that is correct - is also in the proposal of the Minister who has been approved - is to think about how the mixed model of state administration works. We've had it here for quite a long time, and I think that, let's say, the infirmities, including the territorial affiliation that irritates the citizens - that they always have to go to one particular office in Prague, which is a metropolis and has 57 urban areas, some of which have jurisdiction... So let's think about replacing it with, like, some contact points, like, czechpoints. I think people appreciate that it works well. Let's try to come up with something similar for the delegated jurisdiction of the state administration. We will finally get rid of the funding problems, when municipalities and regions demand more and more money, or they are dissatisfied that they are not getting enough and have to cover it from their own resources. And we're going to create some balancing within that system so that some authorities aren't overwhelmed and some have less. So this is something that we would definitely support, which would be conceptual. It is already included in the strategy prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development, but only in relation to the construction authorities. I think that we should think about whether, like in other municipalities, we cannot go in a direction to ensure citizens a good public service in all areas of government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u15	Thank you. Mr Adamec has entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Governor, colleagues, colleagues, I want to respond a little. I don't think there have been any demands yet to separate the administration's performance from the government. That's the first time I've heard that something should be separated. Nothing against it, it would clean up the funding, because it is true that the state only gives a contribution, it does not fully replace the performance of the state administration. And I'll tell you right away that these officials are probably gonna do better at the moment, those state officials, but then they can't work in our office. I say that quite frankly. Since it is not possible for one office to have two types of officials with the same performance, but with other revenues, because one would belong to the State, the other would belong to the municipality. I can't do this. City - investor. I don't know, I live in the Czech Republic. And cities are investing. And people want it. Voters want cities to be repaired, cities to invest in a type of indoor swimming pool, sports grounds, new theatres, new schools or school reconstruction! And you're saying that with every such investment, we're gonna have to run to other construction agencies? You can't be serious about this. I really don't! That's not normal. Besides, I didn't finish it at the beginning, but the construction process took an incredibly long time in the Czech Republic. And it's also true that when something crashes, the different expressions are final, i.e. If you miss something in time, then you must ask again the same state authorities, which are part of the construction process, for new statements. And that's funny sometimes. Because sometimes that state office will change its mind in that time, maybe the legislation will change a little bit before you finish the construction process, and then you wonder. So if the construction process today takes longer than its own investment, its own construction, then this way it will take even longer. I think we need to adjust the reverse trend. The reverse trend for the construction process to be shorter than the actual time of the investment, but that's a different story. We all know that we need a new building bill, the Ministry of Regional Development, as far as I know, is preparing it. I have quite, I would say, a revolutionary view in the sense that I would throw the old building bill in the trash and start from scratch, because my experience so far here, whenever there was a bill of amendment to the building procedure, it was always so far that it was not always so, and I would say almost never succeeded in shortening the construction preparation period under the construction procedure to obtain a building permit. I must say, then, that most of the city's investments have no problems. This must be said to be specific cases where it is simply used, abused, because citizens who are affected by some property damage or change their environment in that city, because something is built there, so they have a lot of other options to respond to the building authority's decision, to a decision by the Department of the Environment. Because today we have multi-stage management and the right of specific citizens concerned, in my opinion, is protected sufficiently and in a number of cases even more than we might want as investors. I will remind you of the construction of the D11 motorway now there is a second call, once again the breakdown of the Children of Earth, so I would like our Members not to act as activists. [[12.50 hours]] You just have to stand up rationally, and I understand that, so it's not completely impenetrable and relaxed. But I'm saying we need to put the scales on one side, what happens when we adopt this law, what's on the table here, if we threaten the law of the so-called. Threatened by our fellow citizens, or not, it will be more transparent because they have other ways of defending themselves if they do not like it. I think there are many possibilities, and even that is the problem of building management and territorial decision-making. After all, everyone has so much rights there that we've just been adjusting, and then we're not building anything as a result! We're gonna have a transport infrastructure here in a minute, so I'm wondering how you're gonna look at it! That's exactly the point! By the way, if we don't change the building bill, let's not get the illusion that by waving a magic wand, all the problems in the construction industry, we're gonna end up in line construction. It may get better, but only on a little piece like this. And thank God, as I say, for him. But the construction law, it's not a matter of six months. Madam Secretary can talk about it for hours. It's just a really complicated thing, and it affects everyone. He's touching everyone! So please consider this context. Really, I understand the purity of the process, I understand the views of the pirát, but please don't spill the baby with the water from the bathtub with your imagination, because that's exactly the approach that leads to somewhere else that we wish. It is not true that good intentions and good intentions always lead the way. Unfortunately, I know it differently, he usually ends up in hell. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u17	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Michálek is registered. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u18	I will only briefly respond to the speech of the previous speaker that, of course, I agree with him on the question that there is a need to improve the construction law and that I would also start ideally from scratch, because what has been created there is an incredibly complex moloch, not serving the interests of this country. And I want to assure him that we are not activists in the fact that we want to slow down the construction of motorways or something. After all, we signed up for the proposal to speed up construction. However, there is simply the problem that there is a conflict of interests, that the municipality as an investor wants to carry out the project, it is intended to carry out the intention to the maximum extent, and whoever decides on it, the building office has the task of balancing competing interests in some reasonable way. I would like to conclude by suggesting that this press should also be assigned to the Public Administration Committee as another committee, because it is an issue of administrative order and the issue of administrative order belongs to the area of public administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u19	Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the appellant, the rapporteur, whether they are interested in the final words. They do. So the Governor will speak with the final word. Please, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this discussion. She really is extremely important, because at the moment and in the committees it will be discussed whether we are still discussing a combined model of territorial public administration, or whether we are beginning to discuss separation, but I would point out that this is a new reform of the public administration, and I would point out that this would occur after 15 years, because it is exactly 15 years when the district authorities disappeared, and that was the separate performance of the public administration. My friends, if I wish something to the public administration once, it is to stop reforming, because only then will it be effective, and if I may ask that the Chamber of Deputies deal primarily with the simplification of public administration as such, which is really very, very obscure for the citizen. But certainly this bill is more about simplifying, shortening administrative proceedings, and that is our goal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2018-03-02-ps2017-007-04-004-018.u21	Thank you. The rapporteur does not wish to speak with the final word. I do not see any proposal to refer back the proposal to the appellant or to reject the proposal, so we will now consider the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Would someone please order this to another committee as a guarantee committee? This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 45 registered 150 Members, for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Although the Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, a proposal by President Michálek was made in the debate to order the proposal to the Public Administration Committee. Does anyone please have a motion for a commandment to another committee to discuss? It's not like that. So we are going to vote on bringing this proposal in for discussion by the Public Administration Committee. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 46 150 Members registered, for 138, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Public Administration Committee as another committee. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. Initiating consideration of the item
